ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3947	The meeting was opened. I can ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. The official protocols of 125. Meeting of 19 and 20. ==References====External links== ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Scheucher-Pichler, Dr. Wittmann, Parnigoni, Lacner and Broukal. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e3990	We come to a fishing point, and I may ask you to take the places and stop the general conversation. The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Werner Miedl has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Dr. Karl-Heinz Dernoscheg. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the writer, Mrs Gabriele Binder-Maier, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4036	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4054	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4070	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4094	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserwill be represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance Dr. Alfred Finz. [[09:04:40]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4126	We will now arrive at the current hour – at 9.0 a.m. – on the subject: ‘France shows: Youth needs education, employment and opportunities’ Mr Gusenbauer was the first to speak. I give it to him and draw attention to the fact that his legal speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4154	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For several weeks now, parts of the Paris suburbs have been burning, not only the Paris suburbs, but also parts of other cities in France and cities in other European countries. The question is: What motivates these people there, especially young people, to be violently violent? You can read different interpretations on this, but I believe that these outcries can essentially be traced back to three causes. First: Does any of you think that if the young people had a job there, there would be these violent outpourings? Secondly, Does anyone believe that there would be these outpourings if the young people there had a suitable education and thus a perspective in life? Thirdly, Do you think that it would be these outpourings if it were not ghettos where people of different social problems live together? I believe that beyond any debate on the confrontation of cultures, the essential reason for outrages and confrontations is a deep social crisis, which many young people do not have a chance and no more perspective. The appropriate response of policy must therefore be to capture this social crisis and to make a policy that changes economic and social policy in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They meant that it was limited to France. I'd say fortunately – luckily! – For Europe, this has only been broken up in individual places in Europe, but to believe that other parts of Europe would be immune, I thought it was a serious error. I am of the opinion that if the same causes are going to impact to the extent in other parts of Europe, this can unfortunately happen everywhere. Therefore, it is our duty as Austrian politicians to prevent Austria from experiencing such a social crisis that leads to the same outrages as they are currently taking place in Paris, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The following question therefore arises: Is there not also a single danger moment that we have to take seriously, individual danger moments that we may still be able to deal with today, but which, if nothing happens, have the same threat potential? If we find today that there are 62,000 young people in Austria – 62,000 young people! – who have no work looking for work, and if this is more than 25 000 years ago than five years ago, we must say: It slumbers a social bomb in this potential of youth unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! If you take the PISA study seriously, if you analyze it carefully, it is noted that one fifth of the 15-year-olds in Austria cannot read properly and thus their chance of teaching or continuing schooling is extremely low. That means that there are also initial signs in our case that the social elevator no longer works, that social permeability has been restricted. Our task must therefore be to maintain social peace and democracy in our country, to produce a 100% social permeability of society, and that is, primarily: Opportunities and education for young people in our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The most likely of all is that the Austrian school system continues to a high degree the differences in origin, namely the differences in social origin. A result of the PISA study is that a girl who lives in the city whose parents are academics has a 83 percent chance of an academic degree. A Bub who lives in the country, whose parents are workers, has a 7 percent chance of an academic degree. This is a sign that our school system does not at the moment lead to an approximation of opportunities, but rather to the continuation of the socially unfair distribution of opportunities through our school system. Getting Now You ask yourself the question: What does this have to do, for example, with the situation of immigrants or those at the bottom of the social scale? – I can tell you: There are more and more people who have only the qualification for little demand and little qualified activities, but there is too little work for them. Therefore, it is the biggest challenge for a society to ensure that as many children and young people as possible come to the highest possible level of education. This is the only way to make society transparent in the long term! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, of course, the question of political responsibility is also raised. If you see that there are problems, do you think that it is the right way to delete the places of the accompanying teachers at the schools that are responsible for the fact that all children also learn German and thus have better educational opportunities?- Oh, my God! Do you think it is right to delete 5 500 compulsory teaching places in Austria in such a situation? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Tell the head!]] I'll tell you: With every teacher's place you delete here, you reduce the chances of children and young people in our country. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I think the national leaders' demands are absolutely correct when they say that we need at least 800 accompanying teachers in Austria to ensure that the children in schools learn German properly and thus have a better chance to participate in our education system. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What did City Councillor Rieder do?]] I would say that if one regrets that there are too many teachers in Austria, because there are too few children, then we should understand this as an opportunity to do more for the children with more teachers and therefore to ensure better education. That would ensure justice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I think it is really terrifying that the result of the PISA study and the warning signs that exist in individual parts of Europe does not draw the right conclusions, but instead we are presented with a school package I and a school package II, which does not change any of these shortcomings, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grossruck: What you find is not relevant!]] It is a question of survival – both economically and socially – for Austria that the Austrian school system becomes more transparent, that it becomes more socially inclusive and that more children have more opportunities in our country. I say it again: The Finnish school system has proved it's better. It is better to go the Finnish way than the Gehrer way. [[Abg. May. Hakl: 20 percent unemployed in Finland!]] That would give the children in our country more opportunities, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Reasonable policy goes to the roots of the problems. Now that we are sitting there and pooling how the Members of the Governments are doing it, most of the time we end up with the fact that we are only able to control problems with police measures. That is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Schools: Which country are you talking about?]] Go a way in which the problems are packed at the roots. We need to pack the social crisis at the roots, because your polemics do not use anything at all. If you give children and young people more opportunities for education, more jobs, then we will not have violence in the future, but social rise! That is the far more sensible way for Austria and its inhabitants, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4321	The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, Dr Bartenstein, spoke on a preliminary opinion. I'll give him the word. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4343	Mr President. High house! With your introductory remarks, Dr. Gusenbauer, I was able to agree when you mentioned unemployment, education problems and ghetto training as likely causes of the problem in France, and I would say that it is likely to start with too little educational opportunities, and the result is that there are too little opportunities in the labour market. If you have also done so – and I am not the Minister of Education, Minister Gehrer is unfortunately prevented today – that there is a blatant imbalance in the opportunities in the public school system in Austria, then I tell you, as a father of five children, who have gone through folk school and gymnasium in this country in recent years, through public gymnasiums – others with their children, as you can hear, Dr. Gusenbauer – that I have found that in Austria children from all regions, from all social classes in our school system get completely identical and very good opportunities. [[Abg. Olympians: They should be there too!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Minister Gehrer makes extraordinary efforts to promote children with a non-German mother tongue, but she does not always meet with full cooperation and fair partnership with those responsible in the countries and also in the Federal Capital. The following figures show: There are no fewer than 2 305 teaching posts in Austria for the promotion of children with a non-German mother tongue. This costs almost 100 million euros a year. 1 300 of these posts, Dr. Gusenbauer, are awarded in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You are right if you say that Austria is not immune to such things as France. – We must have a watchful eye there, and we must work constantly to ensure that there are no no-future children or no-future youths in us. My impression is that there are few issues like this in our country, which have such a high level of community in the social partners, but also here in Parliament, when it comes to taking concrete measures in good time. This has been the case under Federal Chancellor Schüssel since 2000, and I am reminded that this was also the case under the Federal Chancellor's climate. However, the situation in France and the situation in Austria are quite different – apart from the colonial background of France. In 1999 alone, 4.3 million immigrants were officially counted. These are second and third generations of no-future kids, so that is in no way comparable to Austria. However, the figures from the pure labour market also show that unemployment in Austria is one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe at 5.3 percent. It is in France – and you know this, Mr. Klubobmann Gusenbauer – at just under 10 percent. In the case of youth unemployment, Austria has one of the lowest rates in Europe at 10.6 percent. In France, the figure is 21.7 percent. No-future-kids – there must be no such thing, and we must take timely action! Only a few weeks ago have we taken measures that go in the right direction. All the political groups, Dr. Gusenbauer, including Social Democracy, have actually agreed to the biggest skill package, which, according to the Commission's information, has been decided in Europe in these years, namely our qualification and employment package with a volume of € 285 million. In addition, 61 500 Austrians come in qualification measures. Today I can tell you: Just €160 million, that is, far more than half of these funds, flow towards young people and their qualifications. The fact that this also has an impact on the labour market shows that in Austria – and we would have expected this to – we have a 50 percent higher unemployment among foreign citizens than among domestics that the unemployment rate of foreign workers is about half higher, while it is disproportionately higher among young foreign workers, ladies and gentlemen, but only by 30 percent. It's not supposed to be a sedative play, but at least it's not going in the other direction. The AMS is doing quite an excellent job there, by the way also in cooperation and cooperation with the schools. I am glad that the AMS does much disproportionately also for foreign unemployed young people in relation to unemployed young people. This is only slightly disproportionate, Professor Van der Bellen, but at least disproportionate and goes in the right direction. Instead of “No future”, we say in Austria “Jobs for You(th)”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] From the 160 million € package for young people seeking employment and unemployed people are – and that will be You're sure to be interested – in addition to 20 000 places in the next year's "Jobs for You(th)" programme. So from 10 000 places this year, Mr President, we will make over 30 000 places next year. That is de facto a more than triple. The social partners are also on board. The AMS will implement it responsibly. The fact that this proven programme works is seen from the fact that AMS analyses show that at least two thirds of young people have a job after six months, an unfunded job. I think that is satisfactory, especially since I know which young people will be included in these programmes. These are young people without high school, young people without a degree in teaching, who later have to take up their teaching degree at 20, 22, 24 years, which means that young people who have little chance to look at the labour market at first. In this way they get a second, a third chance – which is also within the meaning of the title of the current hour “Youth Needs Opportunities”, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Surprisingly, the apprenticeship situation is developing positively, and ultimately also on the basis of the initiatives of our youth employment officer Blum, which I believe is valued everywhere. The so-called Blum-Bonus – Grasser and I have estimated that there will be 3,000 applications for the time being – has so far led to 8,500 applications. That is quite or even very successful. There have been 3.7 percent more apprenticeship contracts for apprentices in the first year by the end of October alone, plus 1,757. That's very significant! After years of decline, after a year of stagnation, namely 2004, we will now have a significant increase in 2005. We now also have no less than 82 percent more open apprenticeships, thus almost doubling the open teaching posts and thus – and this, Mrs Silhavy, they have recently misinterpreted – a reduction in the teaching gap by no less than a third. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of educational opportunities, in terms of the qualifications of young people, in terms of labour market absolutely attracts one strand. If it doesn't work there, you also have to put market forces out of power and say: Young people need in all cases the opportunity to enter the labour market! My impression is that in this area everyone in this country is getting on a line. My impression is that we – together with the Germans and the Swiss – have an incredible asset, an incredible advantage, namely dual vocational training. This seems to me to be the very best bulwark against youth unemployment. My impression is that in the next few years we will need extraordinary measures to get birth-like years into vocational training. After three or four years, this will be tilting and going in the opposite direction, pointing in the opposite direction. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What we still need in our country – we are working on it – is not just to analyse: What about unemployed young people from home and unemployed young people from abroad?, but also about: What is the position of the unemployed foreign young people with language and other qualifications? and also to look at the domestic Austrian young people: How many are there who have a migration background and have a language problem as well? So we need a differentiated analysis of the image of young people who have problems on the labour market. Austrian shows, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen – and I would like to conclude by saying this – that youth has education, that it has employment, and that it therefore has every opportunity to live well in life and on the labour market, and that we should not compare ourselves with France for this reason to God.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4417	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Amon, MBA. His speaking time is 5 minutes. Mr Collegue, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4442	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of the current hour is “France shows: Youth needs education, employment and opportunities". I am already doing a little hard with this wording, because, in fact, employment through appropriate education is what gives young people opportunities. [[Abg. Oils: That's not all!]] If you see a contrast in this, you have apparently not understood a lot, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We agree that unemployment is a European phenomenon, which is why there is no doubt that there is a need for European efforts to deal with it. That is why, precisely because unemployment is a European phenomenon, international comparison is also permitted. All international comparisons show that the Austrian Federal Government is very successful in the fight against unemployment, especially in the fight against youth unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] International comparisons do not help the individual who is in the situation of unemployment, and that is why it is above all the concern of the Minister of Economic and Labour to achieve the following objective, together with the social partners, - and to this end, Mr Vergestnitsch, you have also known yourself - that there is no youth without a apprenticeship or a place of training. That is why the measures put forward by this Federal Government in a variety of ways, not only the standard labour market service programmes, but above all the Blum bonus, are an excellent means of dealing with the unemployment of young people. This can be seen not only from the fact that there have already been some 8,000 requests for funding, but also from the fact that there are now 1,757 additional contracts for teaching. Ladies and gentlemen! We fight for each of the young people so that he/she can get a job. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] There should be no political change, Dr. Gusenbauer, because that is actually the subject of this debate. If you are talking about how successful other education systems are, such as Finnish, then answer the question why the Finns have twice as high youth unemployment as we do. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's right!]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] – So this education system cannot be so good, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy! If you are still considering, Dr. Gusenbauer, that there is a migration background of just 1.4 percent in Finland and that there is a 14 percent in Austria for children and young people, you can already see that Austrian education policy is much more successful than what you have proposed to us here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You also said, Dr. Gusenbauer, that we would have done this in the area of migration support, language promotion and similar cuts at the teacher's posts. To this end, I can tell you: We have 2 305 teachers in Austria, who are expressly used to engage in this field and to devote themselves to children with non-German mother tongues. Of these 2 305 teachers, 1 300 are in Vienna alone. So more than half of the teachers employed in this field are in Vienna. Other federal states would be glad if they had so many. But if you've deleted 700 teachers' posts in this area, that was your Vienna City School Council. It was your municipal community in Vienna that has deleted these teacher posts, and not the Ministry of Education. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] – This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] We didn't do anything in this area – you obviously didn't read the school package II, otherwise you would know – but with the school package II, we also create 400 teachers' offices and teachers' offices for linguistic integration. – This is a successful education policy, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I give you the right, Dr. Gusenbauer, if you say that in France, on the one hand, there is a lack of education and, on the other, a lack of jobs that have led to the undesirable situations. Thirdly, however, these ranches were also triggered by a political debate. This should also be considered if such a discussion is held!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4550	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Grossmann. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4571	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Violence can be justified by nothing and no one, but very well explained and prevented. Those who are persecuted today as perpetrators of these terrible acts of violence are in truth the victims. [[Abg. Friend: Very dared!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the ÖVP.]] They are the victims of a so-called service society that does not fulfil a very important condition, namely equal opportunities and equal opportunities. If children do not understand the teaching language – ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you should listen carefully! – if children are not encouraged, neither in school nor at home, if they do not understand anyone, not only in terms of language, but also emotionally, if no one is dealing with their problems, then human suffering and social misery are pre-programmed. [[new calls to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In France a class system has established itself over the years: Those who can afford to send their children to private schools, and the rest of them are the l’école publique. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer pointing out) You mean!]] The children are thus divided into completely different worlds, in areas with completely different development possibilities. – This is the system that is also advocating to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But those who are cut off from the chances of life have nothing to lose. Anger, despair, and hopelessness are looking for a valve. Social cold is then answered, as in France, with burning cars and burning houses. At the latest, those who do not value social justice in itself would have to understand that social justice is at least an investment in their own security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! In Austria, no one really has a reason to show and say with his finger on France: These are the evil ones, and we are the good ones, because that it has not yet been so high in Austria, is due, on the one hand, to the fact that we are not a former colonial power with the corresponding immigration flows, and on the other hand, that, despite its policy over the past five years, the educational offensive of the seventies which has opened up the education system to all levels of the population, so that workers' children, as I am, have become possible to enter a university degree. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since the start of this unwholesome federal government, Austria has lost almost everything that has won us in the international comparison and what has brought us – and that is even more important – social peace. In 2000, Austria was still the EU country with the lowest youth unemployment rate. [[Abg. Großruck: Did you write this speech at the Heurigen?]] Since then, youth unemployment has doubled. The educational gap is getting bigger and bigger. In education policy, there has been a ballast, and more and more young people are being said: We have no use for you! What this means for a young person, who is full of action, full of energy, what it means to him is that there is no place for him in society, is at hand. That is exactly what we need to observe in France, or we are dramatically being watched there: This young man turns against society and its laws. Ladies and gentlemen, let's learn from it.- Oh, my God! Finally, open the way for a socially balanced policy in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4694	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4715	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not very surprised that the SPÖ is taking the troubles in Paris to pray down its domestic propaganda again. That's what we already know: It is not sad enough for you not to try to implement it on Austrian conditions. Now to what you, Mrs Grossmann, have just done here, where you have resorted to Broda’s teaching of justice. The perpetrators are not the perpetrators with you, but the perpetrators are the victims. The question is: What are the real victims? The victims are obviously the perpetrators with you because they are guilty of the perpetrators being the victims. Mrs Grossmann! We should – we all, you too! – have overcome these judicial romances and these social romances, because we know very well that this leads to the distance and is completely wrong. Of course, it is true that one must also investigate the causes of such inconsistency, which then also leads to such convulsions and crimes, but to say that the perpetrators are victims – and also in reporting in Austria, one sometimes has the impression that this social romance is going through when these tiemakers are seen as a kind of robin-hood figure – that these tiemakers are victims and not offenders, that is probably the wrong way. That is precisely what you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, should recognize, especially as the cars that are being lit there belong exactly to the underprivileged layer that you should actually represent, whether in Paris or elsewhere in Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you go here and compare with Austria, I have to tell you: One can at most draw a comparison, ladies and gentlemen, of social democracy, namely that your immigration policy of the 1980s and 1990s has been equally developed by any theoretical circles and has completely passed away from practice. [[Abg. Krainer: Absolutely ridiculous!]] It is precisely this kind of policy that causes such conditions as are currently in place in France. You just didn't want to see the problems. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] Yes, that is true, but from a different point of view, Mr President. This also applies to Vienna. The French say: Everyone in France is a Frenchman! That is why everyone is treated the same way, and that is why there are no different conditions. This is assimilation. - We don't want that! That doesn't work either. Their romantic ideas in the 1980s and 1990s were those of multicultural society. They said: Austria is an open country!, Vienna is an open city!, but you are concerned about the integration framework conditions, because of whether you have enough schools, because of whether you have enough apartments, because of whether you have enough jobs at all. They took it from the other side. This is a completely wrong access. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: (shaking the head) ridiculous!]] You can shake your head, Mr. Krainer. I can say: Thank God we do not have such conditions as in France. One reason for this is also the lower number of immigrants. But it must not be overlooked that there are school classes in some districts in Vienna, in which the proportion of children with non-German mother tongue is 70 to 90 and even more percent. There is already the question: Where is integration operated? How is it supposed to work to integrate these children into our society? A parallel society then emerges. This had to be noted now by the Social Romantics in Germany, in Berlin. Now they have to realize that this is the completely wrong way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have always known the way: Integration in immigration policy! That means: Migration only to the extent to which one can also integrate the rooms. If you had applied these criteria 15 years ago, as we have demanded, we would not have done so much to the present extent. You should take note of this and not make comparisons between France and Austria now! We have now adopted further measures in this area, ladies and gentlemen. For example, citizenship law tightens the criteria. [[Abg. Oils: That's how it looks!]] The purpose of asylum law is to prevent abuse by distinguishing between those who come to Austria and are entitled to have support because they are persecuted and those who come to us for purely economic reasons. However, it should also be a reduction in immigration. The seasonal model introduced by this Federal Government is the right answer to the labour market needs on the one hand and to the fact that one has no possibility of integration on the other. Furthermore, we have countered with three economic packages, an apprenticeship package and an employment programme of the problematic situation in the labour market. 60 000 additional employees are available only on the basis of the last employment package of the Federal Government. That is the right answer – not the propagandaist projection of terrible states in France in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4826	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4847	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr Klubobmann, the only one I can support or share with your two speakers are the words “Thank God”. Thank God we do not have the states as in France! - Yes, I support it. With regard to the rest of your speech, Mr Klubobmann, I also have to say with regard to what the Federal Minister has said: The government parties obviously have a board in their heads. They do not want to take note of the reality of these young people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, it is incredible if you make yourself here and say that foreign young people are not so bad on the labour market at all. You know what you're saying? “Foreign Youths” – take note of the word! We are talking here about the young people of the second and third generations who have long had Austrian citizenship. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] "Foreign youth" can only be young people from EU countries, as young people generally do not receive employment permits at all as new entrants on the labour market. You know if you – no matter in any federal country! – talk to young people of the second and third generations who have already grown up in Austria, then you know what hopes these young people actually have to get decent work, namely: almost none! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] It will become clear to you when you talk to them about how much these young people are disadvantaged on the labour market, how often, according to ideas in companies, it is still decided whether the skin color is slightly darker or slightly brighter, ladies and gentlemen. If you, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, cite the right of citizenship as proof of what positive measures you are taking, this is an incredible cynicism. On the other hand, because of the alleged lack of German knowledge – the draft – the young people want to abstain from citizenship, while on the other hand you, your parties, make radical cuts in the teaching of their mother tongues for these young people. That's a reality! Don't say that's not true! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Here are the figures for Carinthia: It was eleven mother tongue teachers, now it's six. – No reduction? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's quite different! You can't compare that!]] I could give you figures for every federal state, how much you cut in mother tongue teaching, in support for underprivileged young people. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Thematic Miss!]] Was right That's how you're going, Mrs. Partik-Pablé? You want that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You want to support this concept, which you want to create several classes of young people; apart from the fact that the prospects for the future for the Austrian young people were even better than now, if you look at the conditions at universities or on the labour market. [[Abg. Wattaul: Absolutely stupid!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They confuse apples with pears!]] Let us talk again about the labour market! The unemployment of young people as a whole, not of foreign young people, has doubled within five years. Nevertheless, the Minister of Labour is taking a stand and says: We're successful! – This is absurd, ladies and gentlemen! This is actually cynicism, a non-to-know-how name of realities. It is particularly bad, of course, for young people with migration backgrounds. But I would like to mention one more point beyond education and the labour market, which I think is particularly important: What about living integration, ladies and gentlemen? - Take your nose! Where, for example, are the black sanitizers, the Turkish police? Where are the Serbian AMS employees? Where are the politicians with migration background? Where are the high officials with migration backgrounds in the Chamber of Commerce or also in the ÖGB? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yes!]] Where is she? – They don't exist! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yes! On the list of the Chamber of Commerce!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not an example of living integration, of living together, of joining together, of listening to one another and understanding another. These people also need a corresponding representation, a corresponding voice in the public, but they do not They are the same as the opportunities in education and employment. If you do not change that, ladies and gentlemen, then you are actually wasting the future of these young people and are putting at risk something that this country has always stood for, namely social cohesion!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e4991	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5012	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Oellinger! What I share with you is: The situation in France, which has happened there, is really shocking. It must also be noted, however, that the disturbances in France result from a misdevelopment that concerns France, where social weakness has been pushed to the outskirts of the city, where it has not been possible to create conditions of living that are appropriate for young people of the second and third generations of immigrants. It is also necessary to know that in France unemployment is twice as high as in Austria. [[Abg. Oils: And with us she rises!]] Youth unemployment there is also twice as high as in Austria. The number of people in unemployment over a year is also too much. – You have to take note of that. The borders in France are certainly an expression of the anger and hopelessness of young people who have lost faith in a good life. If you want to make yourself here and take this faith in a good life for the young people in Austria, I find that equally shocking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All those who make themselves here – I would like to say that for our audiences too – and want to talk to us about horror scenarios from France to Austria, have not thought about what they are doing with them. [[Abg. Grossruck: He's a nester!]] [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Young people expect responsibilities in this country to create framework conditions for a viable country and life and framework conditions that offer opportunities. [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you preach now, or do you talk?]] Austrian youths do not want to be pitied because we have not deserved this pity. Rather, it is important to scratch and act the sleeves, and that is what we have done. Of course, it is a great challenge to maintain the performance of the social state in the event of a weak economic situation. But to secure that and secure this balance, we're working on it. The social expenditure of the federal government is as high today as never before. When you look at what we spend on social benefits, it is noted that this is €9 million more than in 1999. [[Abg. May. Molterer: billions!]] You must also take note of that. We are in fourth place in the EU comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Maybe you can clear the difference between millions and billions!]] Dr. Gusenbauer, you were first speakers at this current hour, I ask you: What do you offer young people? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Call the difference between millions and billions!]] Is it your concept of the solidarity society with which you want to help young unemployed people? Is it your concept to put young people in school from early until evening or to lock up small schools? Or is it perhaps still the release of drugs, with which you certainly do not help any young people? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do you know what you're talking about?]] These are your concepts, and they belong here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With these ideas you are really far from a positive future. Of course, in Austria – and we take it seriously – we have an unemployment rate to deal with, especially in the youth sector. That is why we have created qualification measures for 60 000 people and doubled the budget for active and active labour market policies. But you do not want to take note of that, because we have acted – and you are not right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You can see that is the result of the sausage smelt perspective!]] We have done a lot for apprentices: the company offered 1 000 € apprenticeship premium as an incentive to train apprentices, the extra bonus that is now available for each course year. This has already been a fruit, because there are 3.7 percent more teaching contracts today than one year ago. The extra bonus has made sure that there are already 8,600 applications. That is, our actions bear fruit. The same applies to education. If you, Dr. Gusenbauer, who complains that there are too few accompanying teachers in Vienna who ensure integration into school classes, then you have to negotiate with Mayor Häupl, for he has agreed and meant that this is enough during the financial compensatory negotiations. What you don't want to see in Vienna – you refuse to take action against it – is that 40 percent of newly entering students do not have German as their mother tongue. The concept, which causes it to work so well in Finland, is to evaluate whether the measures – language promotions or whatever – are really correct. You missed that in Vienna. Now you're looking for excuses, but you won't succeed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, I would like to quote Caritas President Franz Küberl, who referred to in the “Small Newspaper”: “We know that 80 percent of Austria is in a situation that is good to very good.”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5193	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5214	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If I have heard this, I have the impression that drugs have already been released, because on such statements... – Calm down [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Explain this to us! What do you mean?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You're a little bit! What colleague Fuhrmann said at the end of her remarks hits the nail on the head. She quoted Caritas President Küberl, according to which 80 percent is pretty good in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Niederwieser has the impression that drugs have been released! You can't let that happen!]] I ask you, Mrs Fuhrmann: What about the remaining 20 percent? What about this 20 percent? Is this a solidarity society for which we are responsible? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] What about the Pisa study? – Mr Federal Minister, calm down! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] You can speak again, but stop yelling in from behind! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr President, he does not stop talking at all. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or are you talking yourself, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5299	The speaker is speaking! Mr Niederweiser, you said earlier that you had the impression that drugs had already been released. May I ask you to clarify that you did not mean that anyone here is talking about drug-influenced! I would like to have this clarification from you. – The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5329	Of course I didn't mean that! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] 20 percent of Austrian young people, 20 percent of 15-year-olds in Austria have insufficient knowledge of reading, lack of knowledge in mathematics, lack of knowledge of what they need for life. [[Call the ÖVP: on the matter!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about the clarification?]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: So this is very low!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sit down, Niederweiser!]] We have fallen from 15 to 20 percent, the number of youth unemployed has increased from 35 000 to 60 000, now I ask you: Is this a successful policy? Is this a successful policy in the fight against youth unemployment, as you present it here? Or is this an example, as you say, Federal Minister, that Austria shows that youth has education? Yes, many have this education, just 80 percent, but 20 percent do not have it, and this government bears responsibility for it. [[Call the ÖVP: They don't have it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If on the topic of language promotion in the kindergarten, on the topic of accompanying lessons, you always point out that the city of Vienna would not do much in these areas – this is a popular game that we get presented here very often – then let me see the following: [[Abg. Lentsch: That's right, too!]] After the Austrian Federal Constitution, the Federal Ministry of Education has adopted the establishment plans for teachers throughout Austria. – That is, what is being distributed here, the Ministry of Education decides first of all under Minister of Education Gehrer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You don't know the financial compensation!]] That much doesn't work here, it has nothing to do with Vienna at all. Mr Molterer! “Smooth is ruffled by Mitterer,” I read here. Many will not be able to start with these names; Rauch, ÖVP, is the municipality president in Tyrol, Mitterer of the competent Education Council in Tyrol, also ÖVP. What are they fighting about? They argue about the model of early promotion, which the Minister of Education has so nothing to me with the communities and countries, nothing on your table, because it cannot work that way. But this model is put large, you count on what you've done – in reality, these things don't work! It is similar with the university budget, with this one university billion. They already place on a large scale what happens to everything the government does – but this university billion will come at the earliest in 2007! The main thing is, it's all pasted. On the opportunities for our youth, let me make some very specific proposals. We want vocational schools to be opened to young people who do not have a teaching place. This means that we have the opportunity to create apprenticeships, immediately and much more than this 1 700, which you have spoken about, Mr Amon. That would be something that could be implemented immediately. We demand that those 20,000 young people who will leave schools without adequate language skills in the next summer immediately receive accompanying lessons. Teachers need to be used for this. We will make a request to support the call of the national conference and give it the opportunity to employ 700 to 800 additional teachers in schools. We will make this request, and you can then prove what you think of the demand of your country leaders. Support You will make these proposals, even if they come from the opposition! Paris, France is far, but close enough to be a warning.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5455	Mr Niederwieser, as you have not made the clarification I have asked you to make, I shall have the minutes brought up and I shall reserve myself to give a call for an order. I'm waiting for the protocol. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Then you have to look at the Fuhrmann-Rede too! That sausage-meal-red!]] Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5486	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I find it very sad that the SPÖ is taking these dramatic incidents in France as the occasion for making small political money here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: That's what you're saying!]] Mr Gusenbauer, it is true that these bottlenecks are basically due to the fact that, in France, the situation on the labour market is disastrous, that the housing situation is completely complete, that the educational situation is disastrous, but that it is a social crisis in Austria that is completely wrong. This is a polemic which is simply not appropriate in view of the current situation in France. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Grossmann, despite the disastrous situation of the French young people, these people who light cars that hurt people, perpetrators and are not criminals who can be described as victims. You have to see this truth, too. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The concerns are, of course, justified and concern Europe as a whole. It is clear that there are problems, and both this Parliament and the Federal Government have always seen this problem. We have always discussed, with no rest, how to combat unemployment, how to increase the number of jobs, despite the difficult economic situation in Europe as a whole. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: No success!]] I am convinced that there will not be such a situation in Austria as in France because we have always made a forward-looking policy. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where in Austria?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Immigration has already been addressed several times today. Although we have at times had an increased immigration in Austria, we have never had an uncontrolled immigration. That's what we've always taken care of. We've always said: Integration must take precedence, immigration must only take place within a framework in which integration is also possible. – One has overlooked that in France. We have also always taken care that there are no ghettos in which foreigners live under catastrophic circumstances. There is no neighborhood in Austria where the executive does not trust himself. There's no such thing as that! The executive is everywhere where dangers threaten. In Paris, the executive has already given up driving in some areas because it fears itself. The social state works with us in Austria. We have social warmth and not the social cold that you always want to paint on the wall, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oils: What, heat do we have?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have always taken young people's concerns seriously. There is a perspective in Austria for young people, but also for all other unemployed people. [[Abg. Oillinger: But only partially!]] We have taken integration seriously, and we have taken the problem seriously in the labour market. We have said that immigration must be acceptable. That is to say, we have created the foundations for the fact that there will be no such cramps. The fact that the fight against youth unemployment is an extremely important issue for this Parliament and for the Federal Government also shows, among other things, that an employment programme was decided in September of this year, which provides for an increase in funds to benefit women and young people in particular. 61,000 people are expected to benefit from this. I particularly liked the fact that the labour market service for supposedly hopeless young people who have not found work in the labour market for years has started an extra programme. Labour market intermediaries are going to talk to young people, try to talk to them, get them to talk to them. All these measures are intended to help prevent abuses in the way they have occurred in Paris. [[Abg. Oellinger: I could tell you long stories about what you said three years ago!]] There are highly-educated qualification measures, there are promotions for the resurgence of the primary school and so on. There is a huge amount of money spent in this area and there is also a great deal of social understanding so that young people have prospects. And the young people in Austria have prospects. That is also important, and so we must continue to work. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, 60 percent of Austrians are not afraid that such cramps could break out in Austria too – because they are working to create a social environment that prevents it! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5619	The last speaker is Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5641	Mr President. High house! I would like to try to make the debate more differentiated. It is a pity that today – and this is a central issue – has been strongly standardised on this issue. I am also very sorry that you, Minister Bartenstein, are the only minister present on this subject today. There is a lack of Minister Gehrer and Minister Prokop, both of whom would have to share very much in these issues of education, employment and opportunities. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Scheibner: They can't speak, because then you wouldn't have a speaking time!]] It's very bad. I remember a “Morgenjournal”, shortly after the riots began in France, in which Minister Prokop said quite clearly: In Austria, such a thing cannot happen. I agree with you that we do not have the same conditions as in France, but I see very well points that we must pay close attention to so that it does not get that far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck]] I have to tell you the truth: I miss this awareness of the problem with you. I miss you to stand out here and say: Yes, we currently have 42,580 unemployed young people in Austria. – Why is that so difficult for you? These young people who have no work are there, and they have no perspective at present. You have to see that, too, and you can't just say that we don't have these problems at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That means: In order to avoid happening exactly what is happening in France, we need to be aware of a problem in Austria. The other thing that happened in France is that one minister poured oil into the fire with massive verbal attacks. In my opinion, he has a significant share of what has happened by simply talking about “indies. ” I hear a Mr. Strache in Vienna, who makes very similar statements, and – I find that particularly worrying – I also hear a Member of Parliament who – I am now quoting the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 11. November 2005 – said: “SPÖ and greens are moving far to the left, they are already looking forward to burning the first cars with us.” Mr Scheuch, I call on you to distance yourself from these statements here in this House. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Yes, please?]] That is the very ground on which such unrest arises – not only but also. And you shouldn't pour oil in there! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Minister Bartenstein said: Youth has every chance. Mr Fuhrmann said: We do not want to take the faith of young people in Austria. – There are many young people you do not need to take the faith in Austria, Mrs Fuhrmann, because they do not have this faith! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] And if you say that 80 percent of the Austrians are fine, 20 percent is bad. And our task as politicians is to look at these 20 percent, not just those people in Austria who are doing well. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yes, then do it, please. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They will not contradict me that the share of students with non-German mother tongues – I do not mean now those who have addressed Teresa Stoisits who still speak German perfectly, but those who really have difficulties with the German language – is too high in general special schools and in pedagogical funding centres. Many of these students have lost nothing there, they are sitting there only because they have not received appropriate German lessons. They don't get him in kindergarten, not in folk school or later in secondary schools. And your answer to these problems is once again an exclusion with the new citizenship law, as you imagine it to be. They say: If you're not positive in German, you won't get citizenship! I don't know what people you know. I know people in Austria who are highly qualified professionals, academics – I am speaking in the male form now because they are men I am thinking about – who, if they had to write an essay, would have a five on it because they still have grammatical weaknesses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] They're from Africa, they're hard on themselves. They are an enrichment for Austria, for our country. Please, think about it, click on it, we need very different conditions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5750	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[10:07:41]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e5772	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6037	I also announce that the Twelfth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6055	Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Members of Parliament, asked for the written question to be put before the entry into the agenda 3611/J by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Health and Women concerning 'Five years of black and blue/orange: Five years without women’s policy to be treated urgently. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be called and discussed at 3 p.m. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6079	I also announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested to set up an investigation committee on illegal trade with regard to sight marks. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6106	It is proposed that the debate on points 11 and 12 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6130	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debate on the agenda. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free 96 minutes and Green 104 minutes. In addition, Members' speeches on Agenda item 1 should not last more than one hour and should not exceed 15 minutes per group. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. We therefore come to the vote at once, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:10:02]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 670/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Mag. Barbara Prammer, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the compensation fund law (1101 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6186	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I would ask Mr President-in-Office to take over the presidency, since I will be taking part in this debate as a debate speaker. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6216	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Good morning, Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Denten! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In January 2001, the Republic of Austria and the USA signed the so-called Washington Agreement. They all remember, as the legal basis for this was created here in the National Council. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The core of the so-called Washington Agreement was the establishment of the General Fund for compensation, which was donated at that time at US$210 million. This fund is intended to cover all the damage to victims of National Socialism, who have never been compensated until now, or where the decisions in the time of the provision and compensation are today considered to be “extremely unfair”, as the legislator calls them. Both the deposit of these 210 million US dollars in the compensation funds and the disbursement from the compensation fund to the victims are bound by the legal certainty which has been very often and repeatedly cited. In this context, legal certainty means the withdrawal or rejection of all those actions by the Court of First Instance, which, until the 17th century, had not been completed. In January 2001 US courts were brought in, so that the so-called collective actions no longer exist. Today, there is still a collective complaint, which is still upright, the so-called Whiteman complaint. Whiteman therefore, because the first of the collectors is called Dorit Whiteman. In May 2003, i.e. about two years after the General Compensation Fund was established, the end of the deadline for the application for this General Fund was. A total of over 19 000 applications, exactly 19 125 applications, have been submitted to the General Fund for compensation, which is, as it were, managed by the National Fund in the Administrative Union. Of these 19,125 applications, about two-thirds of survivors have been submitted; the remaining ones have been submitted – as laid down in the law and in the Washington Agreement – by heirs of victims of National Socialism. It is therefore about 19 125 applications, but in total there are 200 000 individual claims, i.e. demands, and a few thousand have now been processed or completed, but an end to this laborious and really very, very difficult work is still not in sight. This work is laborious and laborious, because the employees of the General Compensation Fund – they really deserve the greatest of thanks – are with acribie, just with infrastructuring and with a true research spirit, I would now say that the applicant or the heirs are at the side of it. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to imagine that this is about claims that usually last 60 years or more, and today to provide proof of claims – from the various Austrian archives or wherever these documents are stored – which is really not a simple matter. Since May 2003, when the deadlines expire – with a later period – applicants are now waiting for them to see some money. And if you haven't died, they'll wait to this day. That is why the Board of Trustees of the National Fund, which I belong to and which the respective Presidents of the National Council have presided over – since 2002 is President Khol – was born the idea, or was then encouraged by me to think about whether there could be any advance payments for applicants from these claims. This is why prepayments were made because at the time it was foreseeable that the processing of more than 200 000 individual claims would be a very laborious and expensive work. This assessment has proved true over the last two years. The reason for this is that even in those cases where there is nothing more to work, where everything is clear, no restitution and no flow of money, there is one word in the General Fund for compensation, namely, the word “lawfulness”. For example, the heirs of the now famous Palais in the Weihburggasse, which is still part of the Federation, await restitution. In this palace the AMS was once housed. So these heirs are still waiting – and, although everything is clear in this case, that has not yet been returned to the heirs, because there is no legal certainty. In my opinion – that is also the opinion that represents very, very many of the applicants; I cannot now say “all”, because this is an almost unmistakable number – today came the moment when the National Council can make the decision to say: The 2003 assessment of making advance payments for these 210 million US dollars is correct; we are in favour. Such a request was also made in July of this year, namely a request made by all four political groups and tabled by the four members of the Committee of the National Fund and the General Fund of compensation, namely President Khol, President Prammer, President Prinzhorn and Clubobmann Van der Bellen, who are members of the Committee. This request was also submitted to the National Council, at the time linked to the hope that what was publicly known in May 2005 was true, namely that legal certainty was just ahead of the door. In the meantime, a few months have passed, and the legal certainty, which is the prerequisite for the payment and advance payment – 10 percent of the total prepayment – is still at the door, as it were. At any rate, we do not know how long it will take until this legal certainty actually occurs. The fact, which is of relevance today, that the Israeli cultural community of Austria, represented by President Muzicant, has withdrawn support as Amicus Curiae as an Amicus technician for these actions from the courts in the United States, will be of vital importance for legal certainty at all, because without this legal certainty, the General Fund is an agreement between two states and a law that has been introduced here. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam President and Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, I appeal to you today – as we did in the committee at the time when we discussed this law there; that was already in September, that is to say, two months ago – to do what would be appropriate today from the legislator and from the Republic of Austria, namely to decouple the question of advance payments for the elderly victims who have made claims to claim the question of legal certainty. The question of legal certainty in this case does not allow people to get even a cent of these claims they have from this fund of 210 million dollars in the future. If I am now opposed to the fact that the Washington Agreement, which is indeed a international treaty, states that, if legal certainty occurs, the legal effects of this Washington Agreement develop, I say: Yes, this is a contract, but it is nowhere in this Treaty that the basic idea of this construction, this international contract, victims of compensation It is a question of giving the people concerned a small sub-sector, probably about a 10-percent quota of that part, which can ultimately be obtained. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the economy or anyone that is far from this moral and political responsibility, it is that will have to stand straight for it, but it is the covenant, because the League is obliged to feed this fund with a sum of approximately €66 million. And these €66 million are far from that amount that is likely to be eligible as a prepayment amount at all. That is why I would ask you to support the amendment that we have already tabled in the Committee and will also bring in today. I would like to read this amendment: In Z 1, § 11a Abs. 2 the order of the word “only subject to the condition of the fulfillment of § 44 para. 1’. Ladies and gentlemen! If these words are removed from this law, then President Khol as President of the Fund, President Prammer as a member of the Board of Trustees, Klubobmann Van der Bellen, as a member of the Committee and the representatives of the Board of Trustees who are named as members of the Board of Trustees, can take responsibility, then together we can guarantee you that it is actually the same as our common wish to make payments from this general compensation fund over the next few months. If this passage does not fall away, what has already happened will happen, and I do not want to bear the responsibility for that. I dissociate myself from that with all my determination. Then it's going to be hot sometime, we too have pulled the thing in length, and I don't want to drag it into the length. I finally want people to be satisfied, to whom so much injustice has happened, and that is our responsibility. That's why I'm asking you: Support the amendment! Let us decide today on this law and let us start with the advance payments to the compensation fund! Faith You're telling me: The hearts of old people who were then expelled from Austria and who were lucky to survive, the hearts of these people will fly to you. - Maybe that means something to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6364	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6450	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6471	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Almost five years ago, German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, as representative of the Austrian Federal Government, represented Undersecretary Stuart Eizenstat as a representative of the government of United States concludes the so-called Washington Agreement – as a kind of coronation of extensive measures and laws on gesture to victims of National Socialist terror, reparation, restitution and similar laws. Stuart Eizenstat, the Under-Secretary of State, has this Washington Agreement also here in the House on 14 November. I'm going to come back to his words. It was not the first law we passed for victims of National Socialism. I can remind you: Since 1945, we have passed seven provisions laws, four enforcement laws, three return laws, the victim welfare law, the aid fund law, the reconciliation fund law for the slave and forced workers, the national fund law, where we have now used the 6 billion schilling – I still express it in Schilling – and now also the compensation fund law, which, under this agreement between Wolfgang Schüssel and Stuart Eizenstat, is to be crowned in the Form that all those who have not received anything so far or have been inadequately thought of, or people in whom there was gross injustice in the provision, are compensated. 210 million US dollars imposed by the Austrian economy, 210 million US dollars, which did not pay the taxpayer, but where the Federal Chancellor went through the country with the hat and invited the economy to raise this money – and the economy was also ready to do so. The money will not be available until legal certainty exists. What does that mean? – 27 applicants have sued the Republic of Austria for compensation in the United States. All 27 applicants are also under the compensation fund law. Of course, the Austrian economy says: I pay the 210 million dollars if I have the assurance that I will not pay in Austria and then be sued again in the United States. This is legal certainty. The Israeli cultural community, which first supported these actions in the United States, has changed its opinion after this compensation fund was set up and after there was an agreement between the Government and the Cultural Community on a bundle of measures. And the cultus community has kept a word. It withdrew from these proceedings, applied in New York to the Appellationsgericht to reject the action, in accordance with the Austrian Federal Government, and the Cultusgemeinde did more: 26 of the 27 applicants have now withdrawn their complaint. It is only a single complainant open, a cafetier – Cafe Schindler – who at that time lived in Innsbruck. Legal certainty is something that is imminent, because it was a decisive step in the cultural community. I would like to thank the Cultusgemeinschaft for this, and I recommend that the House remain in the original legislative proposal drawn up in the consensus of all four parties, the Bureau of the National Council and the clubman Van der Bellen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Why? – First of all, it is a international treaty, and the United States has always considered legal certainty to be a crucial factor in all comparable treaties. Secondly, The money is not yet available. We do not have the money that we could make advance payments without legal certainty, because the economy is paying only 30 days after legal certainty. Thirdly, it would be a desavowing of the 26 applicants who have withdrawn their claims, in reliance on the Austrian authorities, on the Austrian Federal Government and on this House, which is responsible for the general compensation fund. And it is this House which, with its exponents Barbara Prammer, colleague Prinzhorn, Klubobmann Van der Bellen and under my chairmanship in the Committee, prepares the necessary decisions, and we ask the House today that, regardless of the final examination of these applications and whether we already know the total amount of damage, we give the old people waiting for a prepayment. That too is more than what we have committed ourselves to, and I ask the House to vote unanimously in favour of this bill. We have done everything in the Fund to check the 19 000 applications that exist. When I took over the responsibility there, we had 20 employees – we now have over 160. The Minister of Finance has provided the money without any problems so that we can examine quickly. We have 6 000 out of 18 000 people. The Commission's proposals are based on It is about 200 000 individual claims – an incredibly complex and difficult examination, and I would like to thank all those who make this examination: the Committee on International Petitions – that is not an Austrian authority; it is a court of international law under the English Presidency – the 160 members of the Fund and all members of the Board of Trustees and the Committee and, above all, the Federal Government who have done everything, Mrs Stoisits, so that we can pay our former fellow citizens to whom we all think these relatively small benefits as quickly as possible. We all want this. We all want the same thing, and I hope we express this consensus. Finally, I would like to say what Stuart Eizenstat said in the historic meeting room, in the Reichsratsaal at our commemorative event at the beginning of the year of thought. We have started the year of thought with these questions: with the compensation, with the memory of the National Socialist Terror, with the gestures of reparation, we have begun the year, and I am glad if we can decide this year that we could make this advance payment to the first 6,000 or 7,000 victims. Stuart Eizenstat then said: What we sought along with Austria was justice for the victims. This was dependent on the knowledge of hard truths and the dissemination of knowledge and information. Austria is creating justice today. Austria creates truth and disseminates knowledge and information. Austria has moved on and acted faster in dealing with the past than any other country. – There is nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6556	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6578	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It was only a few days ago that Altbundeskanzler Franz Vranitzky was awarded by B’nai B’rith; They've all read it in the newspapers. And it has been here in this House, in front of this plenary session, when Franz Vrannitzky declared in Austria for the first time in 1991 that Austria has the moral responsibility to bear. He thus stopped the debate on the role of victims and for the first time announced Austria's co-indebtedness to the Shoa. – Quote Ariel Muzicant, President of the Israeli Cultural Community, on the occasion of the award of this gold medal to Old German chancellor Franz Vranitzky. I would like to mention this at the beginning of my remarks, because it also started to change the point of view in 1991. And I am also saying this because international pressure has not been reduced either. We sometimes forget this today, but we also have to consider that. In 1995 the National Fund Act was adopted, in 2001 the compensation fund law. For me, it is a nice addition today that we want to change the compensation fund law in some of the very essential and important points a few days after this award to Old Federal Chancellor Vranitzky. What's this about? – It has already been said a lot. The issue is that the compensation fund law has been left without any consequences to this day. On the one hand, there was a waiting – and that is why the debate is about – for legal certainty to be established. Let me make a few comments on legal certainty. During this year 2005 the Cultusgemeinschaft tried very intensively to establish this legal certainty; President Khol has pointed this out. I assume today that this legal certainty will be as good as produced in a few days, and therefore I believe that we can live first and foremost with this bill, as we now have it. But I also say: If a delay were to occur in any way, changes would result, then we also need the most urgent action on the issues of legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, it is about handling these almost 20,000 requests as quickly as possible. It is about giving those people who are still alive the compensation benefits. I just remember a small part or a small area of what these survivors of this NS terror had to experience: Not only that they were deprived of homes, not just that they were killed – they couldn't train, they had professional difficulties. All of this should be compensated, as soon as possible. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank the staff members of the Fund, but also the Committee on Petitions. The biggest work is still ahead of us. And at this point I would like to stress: I expect all of us to make available all human and financial resources so that we can work with high-pressure, as soon as possible, the applications can be processed so that the surviving people are still given the opportunity to experience that Austria has gained insight after more than 60 years, without that it is only a part of a reparation, which cannot be remedied to allow them to receive compensation, which they have waited so long for. These 60 years are 22,000 days. Let's not wait a day longer, but let's start with this work! I am based on this legal certainty and, like President Khol, I expect that in this important year 2005 the first instructions can be given, the first transfers can be made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6629	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6650	Ladies and gentlemen! The contents of the law and the cause have been discussed several times today. With this law, Austria has become familiar with its past and has dealt with its terrible past. The compensation fund law is an attempt to recognise the injustice that happened at that time. I can't say to make up for it because it's not a good thing to do, but it's a step to make a compensation. It is undisputed that Austria has committed itself to fulfilling its obligations under the Washington Agreement. The money is partly spent by the federal government, partly by industry and industry, and I would also like to thank the economy at this point and express her gratitude for its willingness to raise these significant financial resources. That's not a small thing. This has been done, as has already been said, because the Federal Chancellor has moved in his hand through the country and has advertised for this compensation. It is – and this has already been mentioned several times today – stated in the agreement that before the disbursement all the complaints which were filed on 30 June. In June 2001, they had to be withdrawn, i.e. the well-known legal certainty must be given. Austria wants to pay – I think I can say so in general – but, of course, it needs to be ensured that Austria is not used several times. It must be our parliamentarians' duty to ensure that it is not a double use, but that this payment, which is not insignificant, has once and for all taken the compensation step. Mrs Stoisits, you are acting as if Austria would deliberately withdraw from the obligation or not wish to make advance payments. In fact, however, it is about the legal certainty recognised by you as well. Mrs Prammer, Madam President, you have just said that you are based on the legal certainty that will come. Well, we've been waiting days, months, years for legal certainty, and it just hasn't occurred. Wherever you now take this optimism that this or tomorrow the confirmation of the American court will come, I don't know. We as parliamentarians, however, must insist that the commitments we made at the time in the Washington Agreement be respected. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stoisits meant that payments should be decoupled from the provision of legal certainty. – This is not possible because there is concern that the other complaints are still being filed if the other complaints have not been withdrawn. Of course, we also believe that as many people as possible should and must benefit from the payments. On the other hand, there is this agreement, which has been concluded, because we have feared that we might have been exposed to a flood of action, has nevertheless been paid. It is now up to the U.S. court to reject the collective actions, and 26 complainants are also in favour of withdrawing or rejecting the actions. However, the American court has not yet been able to decide on this. We have to wait so long for this so-called legal certainty to come. We agree with the request as it has been put in place, which is based on legal certainty.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6708	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6729	Mr President. High house! Thank you very much for the words. I should also like to say a few words about this novel of the compensation fund law and perhaps also about Herbert Pichler, who, together with us at that time, tried to raise funds from the economy, banks and insurance companies. We have, I think, started a very important work five years ago, namely that we do not wait for it, but quickly take the necessary, still open steps towards restitution or material compensation. It is international treaties that have been ratified between the United States and us by the National Council and the other relevant institutions and cannot therefore be amended unilaterally. The The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. You just have to say that because otherwise outsiders don't understand what it's all about and why the money isn't paid when it's available. The problems are, I think, a little more complicated. We have done a lot to ensure that we can always react flexibly if someone has noticed that there is a gap somewhere. When you summarize: The benefits to the slave and forced workers are already fully paid. The reconciliation fund will be dissolved at the end of the year and the remaining funds will be used in very slim structures forward-looking. Secondly, we paid compensation for the arid rental properties – without giving legal certainty or being necessary. It's important to mention that. The rental properties were a special chapter and are paid out. Thirdly, We had a whole series of research work to do for the General Fund for compensation, because the total amount fixed at 210 million US dollars is allocated aliquot to the claims. This requires enormous research. We cannot pay out an x-any sum if we cannot know from the outset how high the total applications will be, which will then have to be dealt with on the basis of the total amount. I am very grateful that the Presidents of the House have made the effort to make a personal effort to ensure that everything is done for it. And the Minister of Finance has also cooperated fully with the fact that all resources have been used. We have also extended the deadlines for the applications to a certain extent, so that we have the opportunity to include those who have been forgotten or have not yet received the information, and can be given something to everyone. We took a very important step one and a half years ago, I think, by resolving the additional social benefits provided for in the Washington Agreement, the pension schemes and so on, from legal certainty. This was possible because this part was exclusively to be regulated nationally. We also extended the deadline for applying for the General Fund for compensation, where this was appropriate in the sense of the victims. That is what we have taken great steps to achieve. The core of the problem which has obviously been addressed here is, of course, the construction. And the construction, ladies and gentlemen of the House – I already want to say that – has been expressly desired by our negotiating partners. It was not invented by us so that anything could be pushed to the long bank. This construction, which has also been sought out with other countries, such as Germany and Switzerland, is an internationally proven construction and means that payments should be paid in specific categories after legal certainty has been entered. This is a very reasonable thing, which cannot even be changed unilaterally by us. It must be added – as President Khol rightly mentioned – that the funds of the economy are available 30 days after legal certainty has been entered. It makes no sense at all to go away from it – apart from the fact that we cannot legally do so because it is a bilateral treaty – because the money is not available. That's to say with confidence: I think that we should stick to the best practice we have always sought together, that we should bring about legal certainty as soon as possible. I spoke to President Muzicant myself yesterday – on the verge of the Islam Conference, I gave a reception to all those present. I can truly confirm with great joy that we are only a few inches ahead of the goal. We will not be happy until this legal certainty is actually achieved. Then the request goes to the economy to fulfill everything immediately on the spot and incitement. I would therefore be very pleased if the initiative, like proposals for initiative, which has been put forward here by the House, was once again carried together. As understandable as it is, this may be too large or too small for one, and he believes that it must be faster: Believe me, we have every interest in bringing this chapter to a positive conclusion as soon as possible! Make sure that the signal comes back today: We support this important concern together!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6804	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 4 minutes speaking time; The Group's remaining speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6826	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One of my previous speakers has reminded of today's resolution with the words of Vranitzky. These were important words spoken in 1994. But how did Mahatma Gandhi once say? – Without actions, every thought is pale. – It was this government, this German chancellor with the then vice chancellor Riess-Passer, who started the actions in 2000. A number of comments have already been made on the further decisive actions, which are evidence that we have really cleaned up with our story – we could say – or have thought about it. On the basis of other experiences, some time has to pass and perhaps the next generation will have to go to work to set up actions. This is how it happened in 2000 and 2001. I do not have to repeat the basics, they have already been mentioned: the Washington Agreement, a international agreement, and the legal certainty of this compensation fund as the core of this legislative act, to which we add a further acceleration of the payment. This legal certainty is important. Legal certainty is essential for our group and, I believe, for the majority of the House. I hope that there will be no further discussion. I also believe that in the manufacture of legal certainty – that is, in the withdrawal of the last, 27th. Complaint – working. I have been a member of the Board of Trustees of the compensation fund for several years, and I know at which levels, with what effort and what discreet commitment, also supported by the Israeli cultural community and President Muzicant, is working on the production of legal certainty. It is often important not to destroy this discreet ambition and not to interfere with a public pressure that should be exposed, as far as the negotiations are concerned, but to wait and continue to maintain the culture of this discreet negotiation. I believe that we have come very far with this philosophy and with this culture. In the last weeks of the commemorative and commemorative year in the first half of the first decade in the 21st century. In the 20th century we stand with one – one could be in Saying to an exhibition in Belvedere – changed physiognomy of our nation there. Changed physiognomy means it has become clearer and stands by itself; it is a mature face. It is one that stands for the deeds: to the deeds of the past and to the deeds of the present time. In addition to the reconciliation fund, the compensation fund and other important signs and actions put forward by this government, I think and everyone who, at the opening of the Palais Epstein, saw the bright and joyful eyes of Professor Leon Zelman and was able to talk to him: This piece was also done at the end of this year; the Epstein Palace has become an important house of Parliament, the house of the people, but also a house of history. So, with this changed physiognomy, we can say, looking back at words and deeds: The accelerated payout has gone a bit further, legal certainty should remain. With the discreet and clear commitment and commitment on the political stage, at the level of the government, of Parliament, but also through committed lobbying – as it is now called – we will be able to experience this disbursement immediately and it will be in front of us: hopefully this year, if not at the latest at the beginning of 2006. I would ask all of you to agree to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6884	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. The Group's remaining speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6905	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is an important step, it is a profound human step that takes place in a legally impeccable way. First comment: Provisional benefits are necessary. We are, as has rightly been said, in a race with the time, which for many affected is thus also a race with death. We help those affected, but we also help ourselves, the reputation of our Republic and our conscience. Second comment: It has rightly been expressed thanks to those domestic and foreign bodies who have tried to do so. It has rightly been thanked for the Israeli cultural community for its support and important steps in the United States. It has rightly been thanked to all those who support this, and I think it is also right to thank those organizations and representatives of victims who have spoken incessantly to us and who have not gone to the nerves, but to the heart. In my opinion, however, one thing is particularly important in this regard, one that has died: Ambassador Ernst Sucharipa, who is the author of this large and differentiated construction. Ernst Sucharipa has thus provided the Republic with a great service. [[General condolences.]] Third comment: I think today's presentation is an example of the fact that it pays off for all sides in this House to try to find solutions that this willingness is necessary for appropriate fruit, and that it is good for both sides – government and opposition – to deal with each other. Common solutions are to be preferred to the “killing speed” in many materials. Maybe you should. It is worth remembering that soon the treatment of the future fund will come back into the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6957	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Scheibner, I give Mr Ddr. Erwin Niederweissera call for order for the allegation: “Hohes House! If I have heard this, I have the impression that drugs have already been released, because on such statements...” and so on. [[Removed in 129. No. 6 and 7. ==References==]] Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e6993	Mr President. Mr State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Schieder, I would like to stress the last statement you have made in that we all hope that we can discuss such sensitive materials as we have on the agenda today, and also the materials of the future fund and the scholarship fund, together in a consensus not only debate but also decide. It was not the government parties, Mr. Arbitrator, who had made sure that this matter of law could not yet be decided, but... [[Abg. Arbitrators: You have not entered any of our three points!]] – Mr Schieder, there has been an opposition in the Federal Council, resulting in a further delay. We have clearly and very intensively discussed in the Committee what were the points that you did not fit, but where we could have reached a consensus. It is still obscene to me, so far, why you are showing such resistance here. I do not want to mention once again the really immense accusations and interpretations that your colleague Wittmann has made, above all, towards my group. This is not the style and not the way we all want to support you, I know, here in this House in the treatment of such materials. I hope that you will learn to do so and that we will be able to adopt the scholarship fund and the future fund together here in the House as a four-party decision. Mrs Stoisits, you spoke as a double-said: I hope that at least in this matter we have consensus in the vote. It has already been mentioned that legal certainty is simply contractually agreed as a necessity for disbursement, and that the funds will not flow until then. In this context, I would like to thank – and this is what I think has not yet been so clearly emphasized – especially the economy and industry, because most of the funds are spent by the Austrian industry and the Austrian economy. It is a staggering sum of 210 million US dollars, which has been made available here for the compensation of the victims of National Socialism. We all hope that this legal certainty can be guaranteed as soon as possible, so that this compensation can be passed on very late, 60 years after the end of World War II, to the victims of these atrocities. Therefore, it is also useful that, if this legal certainty is given, the advance payments can be made, just as we will decide today. Mrs Stoisits, I hope you have now seen that it is not at all possible to decide on your request here, but that we can nevertheless adopt this important proposal in a four-party consensus.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7036	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Speech time: 3 minutes; Their group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7057	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, the resistance from our side has probably been provoked by your side after you have taken advantage of an original consensual formulation. So please don't play the insulter! [[Abg. Scheibner: We are not at all offended! That was inconvenient statements from your colleague Wittmann! It's a joke!]] It has good reasons why we are resisting here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The suffering that was done to people by Austrians, more rarely also by Austrians in the time of National Socialism, can really be compensated by nothing. Even if no one of us can personally be blamed for national socialist crimes, we all have Austrians to bear a historical debt. It took a long time to start working out this past politically. The compensation fund law is an essential step in this direction, towards reprocessing, but above all towards symbolic justice. The applicants are of course very old and have experienced terrible things that have marked their lives. With each day, the probability of accepting this symbolic gesture of reconciliation – as it may not be seen – also decreases. Therefore, a fast payout must have absolute priority. Especially in this case, the legal certainty principle must not be overstepped – as I am going completely in line with Mr Stoisits – but it cannot be completely waived either. The advances must be paid out quickly and unbureaucratically, for it is nevertheless necessary that the actions against the Republic or individual companies be withdrawn. I think that this situation may have made it easier for some to support this law and perhaps to loosen some donations, especially those that are less motivated by historical responsibility, but more motivated by the risk of the process. Anyway: It is crucial that we create the prerequisite for rapid disbursement, and it is also crucial that the history of our country and our parties is consistently developed during the period of National Socialism and Austrofascism, or that this work is finally begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7098	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Posch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7119	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr President Khol said – with a not small pathos – that Austria With this law make righteousness, make truth. Maybe that's a little too much said. In the matter itself, I must say, he is right, because in the case of advance payments, which occur only after legal certainty, how the payments from the compensation fund only occur after legal certainty, in reality was no other possibility and the interest of the Republic in this case was opposed to the humanitarian concern, namely the interest of the Republic not to suspend itself from the pressure of collective complaints. On the other hand, it is a reality that over 4,000 people who are elderly have not experienced the payout. That's a fact. However, I believe that it seems necessary to give this law the consent after 26 of the 27 complainants have withdrawn the action and it is only a matter of time until legal certainty has arrived and both the advance payments and the effective payments from the compensation fund can begin. In view of many consensual and also reconciling gestures – and perhaps the greens of this line can join – it is to be thanked on the one hand to the ladies and gentlemen in the compensation fund for the work done. They did great things. On the other hand, it is the beginning of a new phase of processing, the beginning of a spiritual debate with our political heritage. If you put these 200 million US dollars in relation to the dimension of the greatest robbery of history carried out by the Nazis in this country, then you will see how modest this amount is. It was around 200 billion schilling that were robbed at the time. And it is also in no relation to what the people in the concentration camps or in slave work have participated. Austria has thereby done away with a material and legal obligation. The ethical and moral dimension of the murder of Jews is not to be compensated by law and material either, because it withdraws from any category of thinking. For years, this comprehensive moral, social and cultural rehabilitation of Jews and other political persecutors, including numerous scientists, philosophers and intellectuals, has not taken place. This dispute must begin only after the conclusion of this law. In this sense, I believe, today's step is a first step in a new time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7161	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Stoisits. The remainder of her group's speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7183	Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that the Austrian economy, Austrian economic operators, industrial enterprises will make a good part of this 200 million US dollars available to the compensation fund. However, € 66.86 million comes from the Austrian budget, from the Austrian taxpayer, from the Austrian taxpayer. This €66.86 million has been provided by the Republic of Austria in 2001, however due to a lack of time, because there was no legal certainty and because the deadlines started to run at the time, set aside as a reserve as it is so beautiful. Federal Chancellor! Mr President, in his speech, Mr Khol said that you were then, in 2001, with the hat in hand to the Austrian economic operators in order to raise this sum. I don't know if you saw someone with the hat in your hand. Dr. Pichler is actually not in hand with the hat, But with argumentation in mind, he went to the economic operators and applied this sum. I appeal to you one last time, ladies and gentlemen. If you want to have a small part, a small advance payment to the elderly victims who have applied, already in the next few months, then we must decouple this from legal certainty, for we are in the hands of American courts. And the American courts will certainly not end these Causas in the next half year, as I knew, as President Khol, although the cultus community does all that is possible. Let us decouple it in the sense of the amendment tabled by the second reading, and then let us all agree that all the things we all wish for here are going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7222	The last speaker was: Mrs. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Time left: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7243	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have established the original laws in traditional four-party union, and I, even we, have always rejoiced this as very great success. Unfortunately, the Greens do not agree with this common consensus, and I regret it very much. Mrs. Stoisits, you have made yourself here and you mean that you do not carry the four-party request, but that you want a change and thus leave this good tradition. You leave this tradition! I think this is very bad, especially in this causa. On the other hand, I would like to point out that Dr. Pichler contributed a great deal to this. But despite everything, it was this federal government, which also gave up the money for it, the Federal Chancellor, who brought this law here and negotiated it here. I don't want to maim anyone, but you have to pay attention to everything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another word on legal certainty. It sounds very sympathetic, if you say here, let's go of it, and at the same time refer to the poor elderly people. We'd like to do that too. However, one of the foundations here in this House, including in this Republic, is that you observe legal certainty. And that's something you can't actually give up. This means for all other reliability. And we insist that in principle we can rely on what is legally agreed here, which is agreed in the Treaties. And we want to keep it that way in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7293	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party You know the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7317	Mr President. High house! Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer has indeed claimed that in this Causa the Greens had for the first time left the way of consensus, the common path of consensus. – This fact is incorrect! [[Abg. Hornek: This is a nonsensus!]] Rather, it is true that the government coalition on the issue of the Future Fund Act and grant service law, which we last adopted...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7348	This is not an actual correction! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: What else is this, Mr President?]] [[Further calls.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Posch will stop at the speaker's desk.]] We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1101 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraph 1(11a), and I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. [[Abg. May. Posch continues at the speaker's desk and talks to the Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, who is sitting on the government bank.]] – Mr Posch, we are in the middle of a vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I would ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign on this matter. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval for a positive sign. – The sign is given unanimously. We shall come to third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. The draft law will also be adopted unanimously at third reading. [[11:13:29]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on Amendment 725/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Markus Fauland, Dr. Peter Wittmann, Dieter Brosz, colleagues on a federal law on the promotion of sport from federal funds (Bundes-Sportförderungsgesetz 2005 – BSFG) and the Federal Law amending the gambling law, as well as on request 157/A (E) by Members Dieter Brosz, colleagues and colleagues on independent control of the use of funds from the “Special Federal Sports Fund” (1172 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7432	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate is opened by Mr Haubner. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7462	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for sports in Austria. With the decision of the Federal Sports Promotion Act, we make a quantum leap. For more than decades a vision has become reality the Schilling sports billions today. The funding from the Special Federal Sport Fund alone will amount to € 54 million in 2006. It is gratifying that all four parties agree to the new distribution of funds in sport. There are only winners in the new Sports Act. And so the BSO, at its Bureau meeting, unanimously approved this new allocation of resources. In sport, the team spirit counts, and all players have proven that it is primarily about sport and that we all want to do something for sports. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] With this new law, we have secured basic funding for our umbrellas and professional associations, which is a prerequisite for the successful work of our primary and voluntary employees. Austria is undoubtedly a sports and event country, and the following two applications show this too. 2.4 million Austrians run sports in a sports club. 350 000 volunteer officials and trainers support them. They invest thousands of hours for their members and are used for their members. Especially for the commitment of volunteers, the many officials, trainers and trainers a sincere thank you from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With their work and their use, they gold-plate the means of sports promotion and guarantee the effective use of funds. The golden formula is: Optimal sports promotion and great commitment result in a healthier and more sporty Austria. And with this we can stay at the sports jargon: The Austrian sport promotion can be awarded the gold medal, and the winners of the new sports promotion law are the athletes and the associations. The top-ranking promotion and thus the professionalization of the associations, the promotion of trainers are further priorities of the new federal sport promotion. The financial equipment makes it possible to promote new training methods, new training centres, and the new winners for Austria will benefit from these resources. So that we can rejoice tomorrow too Benny Raichs, Gerhard Totschnigs, Marlies Schilds and Thomas Geierspichlers, the athletes create the prerequisite for this with their commitment and their will. Policy has greatly improved the environment. There is still much to improve in Austrian sport. Money alone does not do everything, but it helps most associations on the way to new successes and professionalization. We also know that 60 percent of Austrians do not have a sport. As a result, new health and movement projects of the umbrella organisations and, above all, the action “Fit for Austria” of the State Secretary will come away from the casting can to an effective project promotion and new impulses in sport. At the general meeting of the Federal Sports Organisation last weekend, everyone was very satisfied with the results of this new funding. We look forward to seeing us on many activities 2006! The winners are the sport and the health system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To conclude, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7578	The amendment that has just been tabled by Mr Haubner is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7602	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Sport in a prominent position on the agenda is nevertheless also a motivation to note basics on sport and the importance of sport to our society. Sport as the most important pillar of healthy lifestyle helps enormously to save in the health system. Due to its integrative character, sport acts in the socialisation of young people and contributes in particular to the prevention of violence and the overcoming of linguistic barriers. And what we should never forget: 50 percent of our young people are still socialized through the sports club. The integrative effect of sport has obviously also had a positive effect on politicians, so today we have a four-party request for decision-making. This should also be a little example, because all these points that we decide today were negotiated in the best social partnership manner, in a wonderful discussion environment with all associations, all organisations responsible for sports. I believe that this is also an example for many other policies in Austria in order to create a better climate and better cooperation there. Furthermore, the economic importance of sports is mentioned, especially for the tourism country Austria. We still have two agenda items today, which are about Salzburg and which will be referred to. Ladies and gentlemen! 18 million € more from sales revenues from the Austrian lotteries from 2006 – more funds mostly for projects in broadband sports, which are carried out and organized by the main supporters of Austrian sport, namely by our volunteers. However, it is also said to be vigilant in establishing a contract between BSO and BKA that these funds will also be available for small associations and associations. It is said to be vigilant that the administration does not eat up a lion's share or pass through reality accounting arrangements of the funds. That's where we're all required. Last but not least, I would like to make a comment as the umbrella president, who already has experience of school cooperation and school sports initiatives: Mr State Secretary! The organized club sport is gladly a professional partner for the creation of qualified units of movement for school children. We can and do not want to be a substitute for the daily sports hours in school. It's worth noting here. The Federal Minister Gehrer is still responsible for this. It shall give the children their daily turn hour, and it shall return to them above all the lost turn hours of the past years. This should be an important common demand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The umbrella organisations are happy to provide emergency measures, but the minister has to ensure the instruction. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, a good day for Austrian sport, a good day for organized club sports in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7654	Next, Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7675	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! With the sports promotion law now in place, it is new – which is to be said with a commitment – Mr. Schweitzer, State Secretary, succeeded in finally realizing a milestone in Austrian sports promotion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also pleased that we have been able to achieve a political consensus across the entire party landscape, but it is likely that the rooting of the umbrella associations is also present here in the house, as we have just heard, and that, after the positive negotiations with the umbrella organisations, it was also to be expected that we will bring together a positive conclusion to this law here in the National Council. But nevertheless: A good day for Austrian sport! The law in force until now dates back to 1969 – valid since 1970 – and despite the often, often with little love, revisions did not meet the requirements that must be met by the umbrella organisations in order to meet the new challenges relating to Austrian sport. One of the main factors was the financial security of the roof associations. This is now given by this new law. One thing has to be particularly noted: As a result of the loss of the amount of cover for the financing by means of income from the gambling monopoly, the total amount of income already mentioned by Mr Haubner comes to approximately €6 million compared with 2005 and 2006. It is, and this must be borne in mind here too, to owe thanks to State Secretary Schweitzer that, after decades in Austria, even at times of a great coalition, of which so-called sports billions was spoken, he has now realized it. My congratulation! [[Abg. May. Gässner: (in the direction of the few liberals present in the hall and the ÖVP) There you must complain!]] – My colleagues are not in the hall right now, but I can live with it. In addition to the consideration of the Alpine associations, which are also to be mentioned, the law also includes another novum, namely the termination of the so-called casting pot principle: The funds are now paid out, they are project-oriented, and they are no longer distributed according to soundness and parity. The main focus in the distribution of these new funds is on the field of young people and trainers, as well as on the professionalization of the associations, which must also be adapted to the new circumstances. My conviction is that – Mr Schasching has already mentioned this – the financial coverage of sports as a service provider in the health system is essential. The health-enhancing measures – whether in the field of kindergarten care, whether in the field of folk school – are an essential pillar for improving public health overall. However, it cannot be – and I also give my colleague Schasching’s right – that it replaces normal school sports activities, but it can only be an enrichment and an extension of the offer of professional in the afternoon. This can even go so far as to allow this to happen in the afternoon service, all day care. Furthermore, the “Fit for Austria” initiative is now financially covered. This initiative, in turn an initiative of our sports state secretary – you see, he works all day only for sports – extends a bow from childhood to seniors and includes an offer ranging from movement units for children over – and this is a very important part – an animation for companies to offer sports units as part of the care of employees, up to promoted units of movement in senior homes. All of this together is a great and very essential progress for our public health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7726	The next speaker was Mr Brosz. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7747	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a four-party application to amend the Federal Sports Promotion Act. I would also like to look at why we agree with this proposal and why we are bringing it together, and in this general positive presentation of the sports promotion of recent years a few, as I have said, more realistic aspects. The point is that, although we had sports promotion in Austria, we only: When it comes to the question of just how specific it has been in recent years, it must be said that in some areas there is already a proper look at it. I had to. What is really a new regulation in this law is that these additional amounts, which now come from the so-called lottery funds, are no longer only distributed by the casting can, but can also be distributed where new structures are created, where innovative projects are created and where there is simply more possibility of also controlling intervention. I would like to say, at least from the point of view of our Greens, that the funding that has been given to the principle of foundry has been quite desired in the last decades and years in Austria in the international comparison. You can look at different sports there. You can also look at top sports where there have been successes in Austria. You'll see a few associations that have gone a lot further. For example, I like those in the area of sailing, which have already worked very well and apparently successfully so far, in recent years also table tennis and swimming, where something has gone on. However, there are also many areas where Austria could have done much better because of the fact that this country is designed. The success of this law is that it should also be possible to set priorities. This is what we think is necessary, especially because top-level sports and broadband are very closely related. We all know that success in the top-ranking of top-ranking athletes has an impact, an impact on wide-ranging sport, and then there is a desire for young people to be able to exercise sports. I personally experienced in my former activity as a tennis teacher at the height of the Thomas pattern boom that Austria did not use this possibility at all: All of a sudden, many young people came and wanted to learn to play tennis, but the structures were not at all that you would have done something about it. Where Austria is now in tennis, it is about where it is in front of patterns. There are now other examples of this: Swimming, table tennis – the sports that are now successful. In addition to promoting top-level sport, it is therefore very important, from our point of view, to offer young people the opportunity to get there where their interest is now. This should now be possible to a greater extent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second point I would like to address – he has a little to do with the first – is the question of control. In all cases, commitment to the promotion of the umbrella organisations: But if it is true that one is a control body in which the organisations to be controlled send a person, i.e. the controlling and promoted organisations are the same, then this has relatively little to do with control. Even here, this law has now succeeded in establishing an independent control that should enable it to really objectively assess whether the funds are used meaningfully and as best as possible. In this sense, we will agree to the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7804	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7826	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! As part of the present application concerning the re-regulation of the Federal Sports Promotion Act, In addition to other points, a legal basis for the Alpine associations was also created. In Austria we have over 50,000 kilometres of hiking trails, over 500 huts, which together record 1.1 million nights and accommodate over 900 000 hikers each year. The Alpine associations, with their thousands of members, make a very decisive contribution to improving and maintaining the road network and, above all, to the renovation and standard improvement of the shelters. If you know that more than 2 million Austrians are walking, from the toddler to the senior, if you know that hiking – which is very cheap for families and can also be operated over generations – is more and more going on, if you know that climbing sports are more and more exciting to young people and that hiking is crucial to public health, and if you know that 2 310 employees are working alone in the Alpine clubs, then you also know that the doubling of the funds in this federal sport support for the Alpine clubs is a very profitable investment in the future. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Mittermüller.]] Not for nothing, this draft is highly praised by all alpine clubs, including nature lovers, and all say unisono that this federal government with Chancellor Schüssel is a guarantee that something is done for hiking, that the hiking trails and the shelters are maintained and improved. I would like to thank all those involved, the Federal Chancellor, the State Secretary and all the Members who have contributed to the success of this request. Today's decision-making of the new federal sport promotion has succeeded in a very decisive step, with the means to improve broadband. From projects for young people to senior activities – everything that can inspire people for movement should be given the opportunity to promote. Workers in the enterprises are also to be excited about movement. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we decide together on the necessary resources. At the same time, however, those responsible for sports organisations, including colleague Schasching, and all those involved in sports in Austria, are invited to be innovative, to be creative, to take new ways to give the people of Austria the joy, the desire to enjoy the movement.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7877	The next speaker was Mrs Pfeiffer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7898	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The change in the Federal Sports Promotion Act reorganises the sport promotion of the federal government and also makes it more compatible. What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? – Fortunately, all four parties will agree to this change, which has already been mentioned several times today. The financial basis of the three umbrella organisations ASVÖ, ASKÖ and UNION as well as the Austrian Football Federation and the Austrian Olympic Committee shall be ensured. In the future, these institutions will receive more money from the title of special sports promotion and will be fed out of the revenue of the gambling law and distributed as from 2006. As a result, Of course, the many associations with their members and officials as well as the athletes benefit from this financial increase. I am particularly pleased, however, that this special sport promotion of women's sports and broadband sport is particularly important. And what's very important is: Preventive health promotion measures will already be put in place in kindergarten and folk school. Since this sport promotion depends on the respective projects submitted, the umbrella organisations are of course required to provide assistance to the organisations in their implementation. Consideration is already being given to this, and my umbrella association, the ASVÖ, will also, among other things, recruit the coordinators for health sports – that is what we call this – in every federal state. The preparatory work is already under way. I promise very much, ladies and gentlemen, and I also think it is necessary and useful to show through the federal information tour what this new change of law brings. Of course, these measures do not replace the gymnasiums in schools, which we still demand. However, we sports officials are also required to cooperate here and to do information work. I am pleased that this important step has been taken in the field of sport, and I wish that this financial upturn in the sense of sport continues, but I also wish that many other changes in the law may be of common interest to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7944	The next speaker was Mrs Mittermüller. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e7965	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The new Federal Sports Promotion Act is a profit for top-level sports and wide-ranging sports. So there are winners on all levels. The uncovered 3 percent of lottery sales are expected to increase the special sports promotions by around €7 million in 2006 – which is certainly a very encouraging fact. State Secretary Karl Schweitzer presented us with an excellent new law in the committee: away from the cannon of casting to the targeted use of funds with steering effect! The top-ranking sport is among other winners through more funds for coaching and young people's work, thereby providing additional financial support to the clubs. Wide-ranging sport as health care has become an absolutely up-to-date topic. Not least by terrifying statistical figures, the health deficits are detectable. For example, there are more than 50 percent schoolchildren with attitudes at the schools of Vienna, for example, because of poverty of movement – these are 32,000 children in Vienna alone. The personal and economic damage of this disease at the age of youth is certainly an enormous one. It is therefore very gratifying that the new allocation of funds will be financially guaranteed by the wide-ranging sport initiative of our State Secretary Karl Schweitzer “Fit for Austria”. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Cooperation projects between sports clubs, kindergartens, schools and businesses will be enabled to improve our public health. The winners of the new Federal Sports Promotion Act are the athletes and the health of our children, young people and adults. Therefore, this law is pleased to receive the praise and the approval of all parties and is certainly a milestone of this government for sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8019	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8041	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only join my previous speakers: I too am pleased that it was possible – and you too, Mr State Secretary – to bring some changes into this law, regulations that have not been in the past, and which finally take into account the current requirements of the modern sports world, both in top sports and in wide-ranging sports. One is that no longer automatically distributed to the large associations according to the principle of foundry, but that in fact a high percentage of money can be allocated for so-called new sports or at least sports that are new “in”, as well as for innovative projects. My colleague Dieter Broszhat already mentioned: Both table tennis and swimming are not new sports, but they are those in which there have been great successes lately, especially while swimming. I only mention Markus Rogan and Mirna Jukic. As a result, young people have also responded and said: I want to go swimming, maybe even in a club, and not just in the basin. That is why it is very important to have the funds available here, so that not what Dieter Broszschon has referred to in connection with tennis: The tennis boom around Thomas pattern back then was not really sustainable. It could not be promoted in terms of width as well as in top-notch sports to the extent that it actually had a sustainable effect. While swimming, it is currently the case that the clubs want to train more, especially children and young people, and there are often problems in that there are too few training courses available for the clubs. It is always said to negotiate between the associations and the respective communities that have public baths. I think it would be necessary to set up initiatives here so that there is more opportunities for training, and also – I have already mentioned this in the Committee – to contribute to the creation of a indoor swimming pool or more by a 50-metre train in Western Austria. At the Olympics and the World Championships, at the World Championships, these long tracks are swimming, and of course you have to be able to train, not only in summer, but also in winter, if you can't train in the outdoor pool. So it is necessary to invest here in order to create these opportunities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A positive contribution made by the law is that the trainers can be better paid because they make it to a large extent volunteer and with a lot of commitment. Paying these people better is a good investment in sports. I noticed another positive aspect, namely that women's and girls' support is specifically provided with funds. I was very pleased, Mr State Secretary, when you mentioned in committee that your own study was commissioned to explore the motivation of girls to study young women to see how they can be promoted so that they can stay in sports. It is often the case that in the time of puberty the interest decreases, and that is why it is important to find out how we can keep girls and young women, continue to be interested in sports, participate and not stop – and then we must not wonder why fewer women are doing sports than men. So overall, a positive point – as well as that of improving control, which Dieter Broszauch has already addressed. It is really one of the rare cases where there is green agreement, also an acceptable opinion on the Sports State Secretary Schweitzer of the BZÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8104	The next item is the speech by Mr Mag. Schweitzer. – Mr State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8125	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, let me thank all those who have contributed to the fact that we can adopt a new federal sports promotion law today; I am very pleased that it is based on undivided consent. I would like to thank all the representatives of organized sports, who have contributed to the success of the long negotiations, and partly with enthusiasm. I would like to thank the officials who have formulated this law in such a way that it corresponds to a truly modern law. All legal, support policy and sport policy criteria have been taken into account here. This new federal sports promotion law is clear, and above all one will end with it: the funding with the casting can. Only one base amount is paid out after a certain key, and the rest has to be used in a project-oriented way. It is based on an evaluation of the results of the Athens Olympic Games. We met with organized sports and discussed together what priorities it should set. And we agreed relatively quickly that in the early years there is a lot to do and a lot to focus here, and this can happen with this new law. We agreed that training, training and also pay must be focused on, and this is now possible with this law. And last but not least, it's about professionalising the associations. The BSO has created a very good facility with the training of sports managers, which can now also be financially equipped and where it will allow the associations to employ these trained sports managers accordingly. What is particularly important to me is the fact that, for professional associations, there is now the possibility of actually fulfilling their wide-ranging contract and really doing a lot in the field of prevention. With around 9 percent of the special sports promotion, we have also made available the corresponding funds. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, here the sport can establish itself as a service provider in the health system, and I think that is essential and deserves support. If we are today very often complaining that our “sickness system” has hit the limits of financial viability, and the solutions to get it under control are more than just thinking about reducing performance or increasing contributions, I believe it is necessary to think about what sports can do as a service provider in the health system as part of prevention. And the sport can do a lot! Our projects show, especially in occupational health care, that here is very, very much possible. Professor Felder has calculated that if prevention in Austria is implemented comprehensively, from kindergartens to seniors, a savings potential of 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product can be developed, which is about €3.6 billion. In cooperation with the umbrella organisations, we manage to make this comprehensive offer. With “Fit for Austria” we can reach kindergartens, schools, businesses and also seniors. We have asked the clubs of the roof associations to qualify, and they have done so. The quality label “Fit for Austria” marks all those associations that can make this offer. [[As a surprise to the liberals as well as to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think it's also remarkable that in the new health pass we have the possibility that the doctor can also prescribe exercise programs. This is an essential step for me, which, in my opinion, has still not received much attention so far. [[Abg. Neudeck: Voluntarily!]] – Of course, voluntarily! But I hope that more and more Austrians prefer the movement and do the powder swallow, because that is certainly the right way. [[As a surprise to the liberals as well as to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I am also convinced that the advance we have made together with the health insurance company of the commercial economy, namely to install the “Fit-Hunderter”, will find imitators. Initial talks with the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse have been very promising. Here, too, one knows that prevention can possibly close the funding gap. I promise myself that sport as a service provider in the health system, which now has the opportunity to act in accordance with this Federal Sports Promotion Act, we can transform our “health system” into a health system that allows us to make the way from the sick to the healthy cash offices. I would like to thank the umbrella organisations for their genuine support, but I also know that this is the survival task for the umbrella organisations and will mean a wonderful cooperation for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8180	The next speaker is Mrs Schiesermair. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8203	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Heinz Pruller commented on a ski race a few years ago: “The wind of the back comes not only from behind, but also from left and right!” – He could comment on this four-party request today. This law not only creates the financial security of the federal roof associations, the Austrian Football Federation and the Austrian Olympic Committee, but also the legal basis for the so important movement initiative “Fit for Austria”. With the cooperative project, this government and BSO take the initiative and bring the sport to the population under the motto “For a lifelong sports activity” and “sport as a service provider in the health system”. Three major objectives are thus pursued: Health through movement as a preventive measure, promotion of local sports clubs, movement offer for the whole family, from preschool to sport in the second half of life. With today's decision, 12.3 million € are available in addition to top, wide and health sports. Of these, 9 percent are used for the initiative “Fit for Austria” from the special sports promotion, i.e. around € 1.1 million. To this end, the funds from the General Sport Promotion. This makes up a total of €1.1 million, which will be available to us next year for this area. Under the motto “more people to sport, ” one goal unites us, and we take this path together. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8241	The next speaker was Mr Christ. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8262	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! The Federal Sports Funding Act offers satisfactory clarifications in many areas, does not yet create existing legal bases and will secure the financial basis for the three Bundesdachverbands, the ÖFB and the ÖOC. This is very gratifying, which is very welcome and makes hope for a very positive further development of Austrian sport, broadband and school sports in particular. The Federal Chancellery and the BSO have shown that great successes can be achieved with partnership negotiations. A project-related sport promotion is to be welcomed, as is the better overview in the area of federal sports promotions and in particular the creation of a legal basis for the promotion of the association of alpine associations in Austria. According to the school sport reduction programme of the Minister of Education, this law and the resources provided with it now offer the opportunity, for example, to recover lost terrain with school cooperation projects and new movement programs. It is to be welcomed that future clubs will provide valuable support for sports lessons, border sports will also get the chance for more public, but they can't be a substitute for the original sports lessons that are so correct and important at schools. They are an important addition all the time. It is also important that this law establishes a legal basis for covering the additional financial needs for the provision of Olympic Games – and especially important and not to forget the expected positive employment effects on the labour market in the sports sector. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: A good law with many positive effects that guarantees sustainability and that we are happy to give our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8301	Mrs Mikesch is speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8323	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a former top sportswoman, I know that all competition in sports always counts together. One suffers with fellow Members and one rejoices with colleagues. I am all the more pleased that a joint decision of all parliamentary groups is being reached today and that sport is taken out of the day-to-day business. Ladies and gentlemen! It was this federal government that included the disability sports associations as a fixed component in the Federal Sports Promotion Act, and it was this federal government that has set the special sports promotion with a minimum amount of € 40 million to an unprecedented amount. I thank you very, very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The amendments to the Federal Sports Promotion Act also redistribute the funds for structural measures and special projects. There is now a fixed key, from which above all the federal organizations of the umbrella organisations and the ÖFB benefit. Since sport always focuses on interconnecting, I also assume that this increase in money will also have a positive impact on the national organizations. It is the countries and clubs that are in direct contact with the thousands of athletes who are in contact with the many officials every day and are implementing their projects with them, because, ladies and gentlemen, sports happens on the spot. I should like to mention a few figures in this context: The volunteers in Austria do a weekly work volume of about 1 465 000 hours. These many hours, however, also mean a huge saving potential in the health sector, which means lower healing costs and fewer diseases. Without volunteers, sports in this broad form, as we in Austria do, would not be eligible for funding. A warm thanks to all the volunteer officials who travel daily for sports, and I wish them many successes too!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8362	The next item is the speech by Mr Reheis. Requested time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8383	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! I think you have to hold on at this point and rightly hold on to it: Austria is a sports country with excellent athletes and very many Sports clubs – and above all, we need to emphasize the uniform opinion in the House here and today: Sports is out of dispute! There is a good basis for discussion, a social partnership in the Sports Committee, and the success, I think, can be seen: It is good that this four-party proposal has now succeeded in bringing the funds available for the special federal sport promotion to a new and modern distribution. The importance of movement is not disputed, so I do not want to hide the drops of advertising here either: this is unfortunately the lack of movement of our students. In any case, I must point out to Mrs Gehrer that movement in schools is very important, and I urge her to take this action seriously. At this point, I am very grateful to the BSO and the umbrella organisations, to whom it is to be thanked that sports promotion is experiencing a positive further development. For me as a Tyrolean, it is particularly pleasing that the Alpine clubs such as the Alpenverein or the nature lovers now receive a fixed share of € 1.4 million annually from the funding cake. So far, it has been the case that the associations regarding the maintenance of shelters, climbing climbs were dependent on cross-financing, but with this new scheme they are away from this cross-financing and have a safe share in which a long-standing wish of the Alpine associations is fulfilled. I should like to thank all those who have cooperated here very much, because with the new Federal Sports Promotion Act, it will be thanks to God for a fairer distribution of funds and, in total, for a long-needed appreciation of sports, associations and sportsmen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8429	The next item is Mr Dr Sonnberger. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8450	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The unanimous decision of the Federal Sports Promotion Act, which secures more funding for sport, is also a means of devoting to the young public sector of the ÖFB, whose focus is on the width football, talent promotion and the quality training of football trainers. At 29 national training centres in Austria, up to 18 12- to 14-year-olds are cared for each, with individual funding being the main focus here. A LAZ pre-stage for 10- to 11-year-olds is also installed throughout Austria. The next stage is the BNZs and football academies. Here I especially like the oberösterreichische and Vorarlberger Weg mit Windtner und Kopf, where the national football associations are carriers – in Upper Austria with LASK and Pasching. This solution also supports and motivates the smaller associations that invest a lot of time and commitment in youth work. This path offers continuity and decouples the young work of possible descents of the professional associations. It is also important to develop common models of education and training for our young people. Best-trained trainers for young people, the design of a folk school cup and funcourt projects are suitable measures, accents for the width to sit down for sport. A girls' school league and the promotion of women's football are further initiatives – as well as the development and improvement of infrastructure. This path must now be consistently continued and implemented, and then again successes in the national team will cease. There are already international successes in the U17 and U19 sectors. The talents must also be used in the Red Zac First League and T-Mobile Bundesliga. You need to get more chances. This way needs patience and time. The organisational structure and the foundation for this are created. I'm convinced that the successes will come to an end. Investing in sport is also a very welcome social policy measure and is therefore also expected to be socially political. Thank you very much to the tens of thousands of officials! Live the sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8498	The next speaker was Mr Keck. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8520	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! The sport promotion of the federal government is being put on new legs. The aim of the new Federal Sports Promotion Act is to ensure the financial basis of the three German roof associations, ASKÖ, ASVÖ and UNION, the Austrian Football Federation and the Austrian Olympic Committee. The sports roof associations, the ÖFB and the OOC will receive more money from the title of special sports promotion in the future. In addition, funds from this pot in the future can also be used for the financing of federal movement initiatives as well as for the promotion of the association of alpine associations in Austria. In concrete terms, the special sports promotion financed from revenue under the gambling law will be divided as from 2006 onwards: 1.4 per cent of the Austrian Handicapped Sports Association, 0.1 per cent of the Austrian Paralympic Committee and Special Olympic Austria, 1.5 per cent of the Austrian Federal Sports Organisation, 2.6 per cent of the Association of Alpines Associations of Austria, 1.3 percent of the ÖOC for the provision of Olympic Games, and 3 percent – which is particularly important – are intended for innovative sports projects, for the promotion of women's sports and for health-enhancing activities in kindergarten and preschool years. Mr State Secretary! In the course of this sport promotion, it would be important to see that the federal monopoly law is preserved, because from it we also receive the funds for sports promotion. We must pay particular attention to the fact that the Bundesmonopol Act is preserved in the course of the Service Guidelines discussion, so that sport can continue to be financed and that we can continue to spend these sports promotions, as we have now decided, positively on behalf of the Austrian athletes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8550	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8571	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! We have heard it several times today – I too would like it one more time. Confirm –: Austria is the Sportland number one! The new Federal Sports Promotion Act will further promote and support this circumstance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the new regulation of 1. January 2006 will enter into force, the necessary financial equipment for professional and successful work is secured. Health issues and thus also the topic of sport have been shown to God thanks also to the people. The awareness of health and fitness has increased. It is up to policy to create a framework for this. I would like to mention in particular the fact that additional financial resources are being made available in youth sport, especially in the youth sector, which I would like to highlight. In particular, I would like to say that youth sport focuses on 14 percent being allocated to the ÖFB for structural reforms and promotion of young people, 22 percent going to movement programmes and school co-operations. I think that's really a great thing. It is now up to the policy to benefit from this broad agreement of all sports associations, also the broad agreement here in the House, and to ensure that the new sport promotion is put on the feet accordingly, made more flexible and Austria may become a little more fit.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8620	I call Mr Faul. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8641	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary, I am delighted with your praises for the roof associations. When I remember a few years ago, I have to say, There has been an official, Mrs Riess-Passer, who has always been very vehement about the roof associations and wanted to abolish the roof associations. Thank God the ÖVP and Karlheinz have come up with it on time and have opposed it. Imagine: We don't have any roof associations today, but we don't have a Mrs. Riess-Passer, maybe there's no longer the liberals – that is, a chaos! I think it was right that we did this. [[Abg. Neudeck: But today you're not lazy!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think it was important that the umbrella organisations themselves have organized themselves without politics. I think that is a very essential step. It is also important to say what the roof associations do. Mr Haubner spoke of 60 percent today. I mean, we serve 50 percent of Austrians sporty. After all, 4.5 million people are organized in the roof associations. We have 12,000 clubs. Mr Schweitzer, you said, well organized. – I think we were always equally well organized. I am the president of an association of roofs and I do not know any essential things that we have improved, because they were just always good. We have organized 4.5 million members with 100 people. Someone in Austria should do this. It is also important that the roof associations get this money. We have to put in place structural measures, it is a lot of retrofitting. We've never received an inflation bill from you. There are also many agendas that have been addressed by Mr Schasching or by Mr Reheis. These are things for which the congregations have so far agreed. I think that the communities should be relieved on this issue. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] - Thank you to the mayor. If the Minister of Education speaks in her “county” surveys of how obese the children are, how little movement they make, then it is nice to list this, but in reality she has not taken any action against it. I am glad that, in cooperation with the umbrella organisations and the communities that continue to support us, we offer young people the opportunity to get healthier. One last comment, Mr State Secretary: Only 10 percent of the diseases can be cured medically, 90 percent respond to unhealthy lifestyles. Therefore, sport is in the foreground! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8700	The next item is the speech by Mr Steier. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8721	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The importance of the reorganisation of the Federal Sports Fund has already been explained in detail by my previous speakers. The new legal basis for the promotion of movement programs and national initiatives is particularly important – for this we stand together. It is clear that additional financial resources are to benefit mainly youth sports and health sports. This intention is – in which we agree – expressly welcome, especially in view of the increasing poverty of children and young people with all their health problems. Ladies and gentlemen! The increasing number of overweight children and young people, the stagnating range of sports in schools and less and less physical activities in leisure should be alarm signs for youth, school and health politicians. Therefore, it would be desirable that existing projects for more movement in kindergartens, hoards and schools find as comprehensive imitation and funding as possible. It is questionable how exactly the additional sports offers reach the respective target group. According to the “Klug & Fit” study, the group of male apprentices aged 15 to 18 years has 11 percent the highest proportion of patients in need of therapy. So one should assume that special programmes have been created for this target group. And what does the corresponding list of offers suggest for example in the Burgenland for this purpose? – Six pages of sport with quality seal, but titled: Hopsi Hopper, senior gymnastics, show dance and aerobics. Ladies and gentlemen! Faith Do you really want these program offers to motivate the male apprentices to move? - No, I'm sure not! Therefore: More money for broadband is good, but the success of broadband projects will be measured by the individual measures. Therefore, both the sports organisations and, in particular, the Secretary of State for Sport are invited to develop initiatives that are innovative and cool enough to be adopted by the target audience. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8758	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. Also 2 minutes of welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8782	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! For me, too, today is a joyful day, as we unanimously adopt a law that will benefit from the thousands of sports enthusiasts of Austrians in the future. But unfortunately, it is not always here in the House. They often pass over opposition requests, even if the concerns are still so important. But now on the agenda item. As we all know, the financial basis of the Bundesdachverband, the ÖFB, but also the OOC would not have been guaranteed on the basis of more extensive tasks. Therefore, it was also of enormous importance to put sports promotion on new legs. As Mr Haubner said today that the winners were sport and health, I would like to say the following: We know that 80 percent of our children suffer from behavioural damage, but nothing has been done about politics so far. On the contrary! In schools, sports lessons, gymnastics were shortened. I believe that it would be important to reintroduce the daily qualified units of movement into the timetable and finally to announce the struggle with the folk disease number one, namely the support and movement apparatus. Mr Schweitzer, the importance of this Federal Sports Promotion Act as a whole – it is a quantum leap, as it concerns the division of the special federal sports funding, a significant part of which is to be included in school cooperation projects in the future – can only be considered as an emergency programme for compulsory sports education in schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8815	No one is reporting on this. – I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote on the draft federal law, which lays down the Federal Sports Promotion Act 2005 and amends the Gambling Act, in 1172 of the Supplements. Mr Haubner, Mr Fauland, Mr Schasching, Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 2(1)(a). Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Haubner, Mr Fauland, Mr Schasching, Mr Brosz, Mr President. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[12:13:36]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on Amendment No 718/A (E) by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Markus Fauland, colleagues in support of the application of the city of Salzburg for the 2014 Winter Olympics (1173 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8884	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the first speaker in the debate. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8912	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Greens will not agree to the request to support the application of the city of Salzburg for the 2014 Winter Olympics. First of all, I would like to stress that it is not a question of whether green sporting events want to be held in Austria. We have seen the application for the European Football Championship very positively. Today, we will also decide on a request to support the implementation of the 2006 Rad-WM, where the Greens will also vote. By the way, in the last application for the Winter Olympics, four years ago, we submitted our own application for support of this application, in which we wanted, above all, to note that the ecological criteria are to play a special role. That's what I'm going to come back to. This is one of the reasons why we are now saying: As the commitments were not actually complied with at the time, we do not support this request now. But first of all, on the very essential point. There has been a popular survey in Salzburg on whether the city of Salzburg and the country of Salzburg should apply together for these Olympic Games. The central venue is Salzburg City. In the city of Salzburg, 60 percent of the population opposed an application. There has been a majority across the country. However, if such a high proportion of the population is opposed to applying for a major event, namely where the main sports venues will be, then this is not a good starting point for applying for the Olympic Games. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Fauland: Party political agitation!]] What is “agitation ”? Is it true that 60 percent were against it in the city of Salzburg? Yes or no, colleague Fauland? That's a simple question. Obviously, you seriously believe that Austria will receive this award. Take a look at the decisions of the past! There has never been an award for the presentation of Olympic Games if there were massive resistance of the population in the candidate city and a 60 percent rejection. And if you seriously believe that Austria has a real chance to receive the award, then we think that this is a non-factual expectation. We don't think there's going to be a chance to get this supplement either. The second point is the financial risk. This question is not really answered either. If the revenue for the 2010 Winter Olympics was accepted with €672 million and four years later it is a sum of €1.25 billion, that is almost double, then you have to ask yourself if this order is really real. Now you can increase the revenue from television broadcasting rights, but budgeting the double revenue within four years, which is a relatively courageous step. The third point, which is very important to us, is environmental implementation. We said last time: Yeah, we're making our own application with green games. The transport concept was initially extremely ambitious. There should have been a new local transport solution. But as part of the application, these ambitious goals have fallen out and remains a diesel bus concept for how viewers should be brought to the sports venues. This is not an innovative transport policy, nor is it the taking advantage of opportunities offered by such an application. Even because of the disappointment at that time, namely that the promise to proceed ecologically was not really complied with, because of the lack of support for the population in Salzburg and the financial risk, we Greens do not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8954	The next speaker was Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e8976	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! And also a greeting to the very filled visitor gallery! Sport is a beautiful topic – we have already felt this right at the previous item on the agenda. With some skepticism, which is presented to sports today, I am of course a confederate of sports activities. The following question is allowed: Is Austria a sports nation? – If you can believe the health experts, we are not exactly active athletes. But we love to watch, and we worship and admire our sports idoles. And we really have enough of that in Austria. Franz Klammer, the departure soloist 1976 from Innsbruck, is still elected the most popular Austrian year after year. I'm sure that's the reason. If on the “Day of Sports” there are successful athletes of the Olympic team of Athens to see, admire, then Zig thousands of Austrians are on their way and are doing so. This identification with our sportsids, with supersporters is very large and has already moved some to put themselves on the move. Austria as an organizer country has proved its best with the 1964 and 1976 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck. If I add to the successes of our alpine winter athletes that have been achieved for decades, then I have to say, the application of Salzburg for 2014 is a command of the hour. That's what I really see, and I hope you do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not only do we want to add some more medals to our winter games balance of 42 gold medals, 57 silver medals and 63 bronze medals, but we also want sports and sporting events to have an enormous effect in the most diverse areas. Austria as a tourist country: According to a study, 1.5 million visitors are expected. The large media coverage is sustainable for the Salzburg region. We know that trade and industry benefit from it. But above all, let me come up with a subject that is always busy with us today: It is the work of the ten thousand people. In the context of the 2014 Winter Olympics, the creation of 13 200 annual jobs and more than 5 000 indirect and induced jobs is planned. Most of it takes place in the Salzburg region. Not least, such a great sport festival is associated with an immense role model. If I can still be personally there: I was allowed to join at the Winter Olympics as an active sportswoman, because you are so busy with the whole thing, but then at seven more winter games as a commentator. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Successful!]] What's next? – In our whole event culture, such sports festivals, where the youth can show what she has already done – she had to train for it – are a unique and unique opportunity. If I can speak to Lillehammer in 1994: There visitors from the country of departure, the Norwegians, could also be admired for their fairness, with which they stood on the slopes to the very last cross-country skiers and also celebrated the last as the winner. We would also have this possibility if Salzburg came to the train. That is why I ask you and all of us to carry this thought with all our energy. Of course, I also ask the Federal Government to use all the resources – not only the financial – to ensure that this application is successful, as well as the presentation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9018	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9073	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Salzburg is a beautiful country. [[Abg. Neudeck: But not only since the last election!]] The city of Salzburg is one of the most beautiful cities in the world. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now at once!]] I believe that our region is predestined for the orientation of major events and is also predestined for the orientation of the 2014 Winter Olympics. [[Abg. Scheibner: What a national captain change!]] The city, the country of Salzburg and the Federation have already made the corresponding agreements. In June, the Salzburg municipal council voted in favour of this. The management of the Olympic application was ordered. Now the bonework is coming. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There's still a lot of work waiting for us. We see the 2014 Winter Olympics as an opportunity and challenge, both for the region and for sport, for the Austrian youth, but also for jobs and infrastructure. Two thirds of Salzburgers expect, for example, that the city of Salzburg will finally have a regional-city railway, which has resulted in the last survey. I believe that there are opportunities associated with Olympia in the infrastructure sector, opportunities for us to come up with an improved, innovative transport concept. It is not only about the regional railway in Salzburg City, but also about the two-track extension of Bishopshofen–Selzthal as part of a TEN-South Eastern Europe corridor with a new Olympic Station Enns-Pongau. We can strengthen local transport there, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This benefits the region, and it benefits tourism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Olympia, like the sport as a whole, has a different meaning as well. We should also use the Olympic idea to contribute to peace in this world. The Olympic idea is a peace idea, and we should work to make the world safer every time the Olympic Games are played and peace is created in the parts of the world in which war reigns! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We Salzburgers will strive to submit a perfect application. We know very well that we still have to convince the population in the city of Salzburg. If we have convinced them, I think we will be able to successfully challenge this application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9145	The next item is the speech by Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9167	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! The time for a motivational research, why it has not come to an optimal decision in Salzburg, especially in the city, in the context of the popular survey, should be taken briefly. This is a consequence of the 2006 application, for which expectations within the population in Salzburg were extremely high. It was all convinced that the 2006 Olympic Games will come to Salzburg, and it was then a case in the groundless, a case of a very high expectation down into frustration. From this frustration it is also understandable that, especially in the city – in which it was especially, I say now, because of the framework conditions around the then society, a political hack within the framework of the city Senate – the population was not yet completely convinced that this project was really a project that should be approached in 2014. At country-specific level, the result was quite different: The national result was a massive support of this project. That is why it is primarily up to us to make the policy of persuasion that city dwellers will again be convinced that this is a very useful project. I cannot follow Mr Brosz when he says: Because of the fact that the population may not be given approval, I am already carrying this project to the grave. That's the wrong approach. [[Abg. Brosz: What was the survey for? For the crib, or what?]] In the case of financing, it was decided on 27 March. ==References====External links==* Official website Just a quote from the mayor of Salzburg: The very fair rules on liability which have now been made enable us to spread the concerns of the people in a sustainable way. The risk is now manageable for the city of Salzburg, but the chances are insurmountable. That's what it's all about! An Olympic in Austria is a huge opportunity, on the one hand, for the tourist area in Salzburg, but also for the whole of Austria. That is why we would like to see a national shoulder closure. Because this is not a question of political Hickhack in a city, but about the reputation, about the sporty reputation of Salzburg and Austria around the world. Three billion people see on average Olympic games, and about what impact three billion spectators have on tourism and development in Salzburg, everyone can think of himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9203	He's got Mr. State Secretary Mag. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9225	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has also included in its programme the item “Application and implementation of major international sporting events”. The Olympic Winter Games are major international events, and I think that most of the Austrian population would be unscathed, we could conclude this application positively and would be the Winter Olympics in Salzburg in 2014. Mr Brosz, it is mainly about bringing these few in the city of Salzburg, who have spoken out against the holding of the winter games in the city, to bring the benefits closer to them constructively. It is not true that most of the events are held in the city of Salzburg – the very opposite is the case! Most of the events will take place in the rural regions of the Federal State of Salzburg, mainly in the Pongau all alpine competitions, and the Nordic competitions will also not take place in the city of Salzburg. Only the ice competitions will take place in the city of Salzburg, and this is not really a big problem, neither from the organization nor from the problems that can arise around this big event. I think it was now about persuading the few. I say this quite consciously, because voting participation must also be taken into account when it comes to assessing this outcome. We both know that voting participation was very low and that the number of votes in favour of the total population is relatively low. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] It is about convincing these few of the many benefits that result from this major event. The country of Salzburg is a country that lives in particular on tourism, and we know that large sporting events have a particularly significant impact on the demand for tourism. That is why, I believe, it is of particular importance for Salzburg to create an impulse for an essential economic factor in Salzburg through the Olympic Games, and therefore we are consistently behind this application by the federal government and 100 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9268	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Long rider. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9289	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! [[Abg. Neudeck: (with reference to the brochure ‘Salzburg 2014’, which the speaker put on the speaker's desk) Is this the Olympic brand?]] My previous speakers have already stressed the basic succus: Salzburg. These are Salzburg Festivals today; the next item on the agenda shows the same. There are several important things here: economic policy, labour market policy, media interest and everything related to tourism. Mr Brosz, should we really make the accusation in two or three years' time that we would not have applied for such a major event, although in principle we meet the conditions? Are we really going to put off this accusation? – That is, I believe, not our task, but quite the contrary, we should tackle accordingly. Obstacles up until there we have enough to master, that's no question. It is also important to respect direct democracy, but it is also important to do persuasive work – that is, policy – to convince people that it will be a great project. As Mr Schweitzer has already pointed out, not only is the host city Salzburg the venue, but above all also the rural area, and that is crucial. On the other hand, you are aware that you have nothing left for the rural area! [[towards the green]] We discussed today in the current hour where youth can find a chance. It not only finds an emotional opportunity at such a large event, but also a great opportunity for labour market policy, not only in Salzburg, but above all beyond! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now it is important not only to support politics – the local politicians, the city politicians or the government politicians – but also to strengthen those representatives of the economy and those officials who are trying to achieve this major event accordingly. We should also strengthen those with a corresponding vote. This is how we come to celebrate these Winter Olympics. Mr Brosz, you do not present a perspective, you do not give a chance, you are totally opposed to rural areas. That's why you're not dialable either! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9350	Mrs Mittermüller's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9371	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! 38 years after the last Olympic Games in Innsbruck, there will be again Winter Olympics in Austria in 2014. This would have absolutely deserved Austria, and in this case Salzburg as a candidate. The conditions for alignment in Salzburg are excellent. Most of the necessary facilities are already available, such as those for alpine competitions, the ski jumping system, the Bob- and toboggan run et cetera. The eight locations that are intended to play are thus well equipped. Furthermore, the image and advertising value of an Olympiade for a winter tourism country such as Austria is priceless and indispensable. The few critics are allowed to keep an economic account, and the figures speak for themselves. After all, 13 000 permanent jobs are created in the long term, with income and purchasing power, and according to an AK study, 1 800 new jobs are created. €1.3 billion in direct and indirect value-added effects are also linked to the orientation of these winter olympias, effects that our economy can urgently need. Therefore, the request for support from Salzburgers for their application for the Winter Olympics can only be desired the unanimous approval of this House. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! While other EU countries such as Germany and France – we already heard it in this House today – can hardly cope with their major economic and internal security problems, this Austrian government is working on the 2014 Winter Olympics Economic and Peace Project, according to the motto of this brochure “Austria for Salzburg and Salzburg for Austria”. [[the speaker keeps the brochure “Salzburg 2014” up to date]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9420	The next item is Mr Zweytick. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9441	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After having already had the pleasure of courageously applying for an application for 2006 as one of the neighbouring countries of Styria – but you also need the necessary luck, and that has not been enough to do a winter olympia in Styria and Salzburg at the time – it is gratifying that there is now a new start, namely for 2014. In this respect, I would like to thank our Minister of Sport and our Secretary of State for this commitment of the Federal Government very much. It is simply a sign of solidarity with this country and the appreciation of sport, but also for the great, significant economic benefits of Austria in Europe and the world. If you look at all the candidates there, you know that only a few in Europe, in Western Europe, Central Europe, can afford to participate in such an application with these high social standards worldwide. Austria can do it through courageous steps and responsible policies! This is the basic condition for being able to participate, participate and participate in this. Some people make it very easy here. If you make a survey in the population, who is against it or who is against it, you have to say it fairly, if only 19 percent have participated in it and of the 19 percent of this survey have opposed 60 percent. That is, not even 10 percent of the total population are against it. It is not, I believe, the right of the Greens, who are opposed to this survey, even here in this so important decision, which is beyond Salzburg for Austria, for the population and also for sport so important decision. [[Abg. Brosz: How many voted in favour? How much percent?]] [[Abg. Brosz: 15 percent voted in favour!]] It is very sad because this is a great and unique opportunity. We can only hope that we will have more luck this time and perhaps get the supplement in June 2007. A decisive step is being taken by the government and an opposition party today. And I can only appeal to you, the Greens, to join in this important decision for the future of our country, too, and again appeal to you in the sense of the Olympic thought: Being there is everything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9492	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1173 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 152.) [[12:40:06]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on Amendment No 719/A (E) by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Markus Fauland, Dieter Brosz, colleagues in support of the implementation of the 2006 Rad-WM in Salzburg (1174 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9552	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Haubner is the first to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9580	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria becomes the country of major sporting events in 2006. The ski-flight World Championship on the Kulm, the Sailing World Championship on the Neusiedler See and, above all, the cycling World Championship in Salzburg are at the heart of the event. The cycling World Championship in Salzburg will be the largest sporting event in Austria. In the meantime, the Rad World Championship is the fifth largest sporting event in the world, and if you consider that 350 000 spectators are expected and 5,000 accreditations are pronounced, then this speaks for the size of the event. It's a new impulse. Everyone does it, almost everyone does it – cycling has become a trend. We still have a little behind the great cycling nations Italy, France and Spain, but we are very much on the trail. Especially this year has brought great success to the cyclists. All male athletes of the year are cyclists. In the case of people with disabilities it is Wolfgang Eibeck, the youth sports prize was won by the Junior World Champion in Cross Country, Robert Gehbauer, and athletes of the year became Georg Totschnig. – Who does not remember his unforgettable stage victory at the Tour de France! – With this three-door turbo in the back, the World Cup has the right sporty drive, as our cycling president Otto Flum has just recently noted. Salzburg will have to get ready for a storm. The 22 kilometre round course through the city to Hallwang is a challenging route, as Rocco Cattaneo, President of the UCI's Supervising Committee, recently noted. Wolfgang Weiss with his team will provide professional framework conditions in Salzburg, but there are still some major logistical challenges in terms of traffic safety, accommodation and general safety. Hiebei – and therefore also this request – will be particularly necessary for federal support. In addition to financial support, our security forces will make an essential contribution to a good event and to an unforgettable cycling world championship in Salzburg. The cycling World Cup is an important sports impulse, and I am pleased that with the youth project “Bike for Gold” from the sports aid, the organization co- A new project has been launched together with the World Bike Championship and the Austrian Radverband. There are again beautiful tapes in rainbow colours. One hundred thousand lie up. Please support You're this organization! It benefits from cycling, youth and, above all, Salzburg and the cycling world championship. The best advertising for Winter Olympic Games in Salzburg are excellent cycling World Championships. In this sense, I am glad: Bike for Gold – Come to Salzburg!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9625	Next, Mr Prehauser. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9646	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If society, politics, takes a lead, one is able to reach seemingly impossible. That is why I am a little sorry if you believe in the Greens, Mr Brosz, that you should apply only if you know before that you also get the supplement. [[Abg. Brosz: You didn't listen to that right!]] But no one can predict that. Otherwise we should not have applied for the Salzburger Rad-WM. We didn't know before. We also had a very important competitor – Lucerne in Switzerland, you know! Why did Salzburg receive the supplement? – Based on the better economic concept, more transparent funding. That also says a lot and is a sign that cooperation is true. If Salzburg is able to set up such an event in knowledge, life itself makes it difficult, for example, with the discussion where the start should take place – on the state bridge, on the Mirabellplatz or on the Schwarzstraße – no one really understands that. Salzburg is also beautiful in the back corner and every TV picture of it is a pleasure. Ladies and gentlemen! We are proud to be able to host this event. Mr Haubner already has the technical data, the economic outlook, and we really agree on the point that Salzburg will benefit greatly from it. Salzburg will be a pioneer in ensuring that we also comply with the advance-lord berries that Austria has received in the setting-up of the European Football Championship. We will bring in our experience and carry out our part of the tasks accordingly. The Olympic application, which was the subject before, has already been said, because it is also about the same thing here, namely about Salzburg. Salzburg will be able to benefit if it succeeds in organising this World Championship together in a way that will keep it in memory for a long time. If you also know that on peak days up to 250,000 spectators will smear the bike lines, then you can be very proud of what is coming on us. Much more can then be proud of what the world will think about Salzburg.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9681	Next, Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9704	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Salzburg is really beautiful! This also points to the danger that one could now think pretty slowly, we hear a talk by Salzburger Tourismus GmbH. Salzburg is worth looking at. In Salzburg you can in principle imagine the launch of the bike World Championship in any place. The cycling World Championship in Salzburg is only the second in Austria. In 1987 we had the first. It is a future-oriented event – I have already said this in committee. The cycling sector, especially the high performance area, is still being treated in the media in Austria a little stepmotherly with regard to television broadcasts. In other countries, we have quite different conditions: Think of Italy or France. What will happen to Salzburg in a media interest is at least 55 international TV stations. 1 800 journalists will report from Salzburg. The range will be about 400 to 600 million spectators and listeners in front of the TV screens and on the radios. Of course, it is not only reported about the cycling world championship, it will be shown all over Salzburg as a tourist center. That is why I also expect the most positive impulses for the federal state. Salzburg will present itself as the federal state with the best developed cycle road network in Austria. Salzburg will present itself as the cycling country in Austria. Salzburg will also prove to the Salzburg population how fertilizing a cycling world championship can be. We hope that the positive “punch”, which will result, will then also be reflected in a final positive decision for the 2014 Olympic application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9741	Next, Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9777	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neudeck seems to have to intercede again, although he does not know what is being said at all. The request to support the World Championships is a four-party application! You probably didn't notice that. Of course we will support him! [[Abg. Neudeck: You can also speak against a four-party request! That's what it's been!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the liberals.]] The point is: For the cycling World Championships in Austria is probably a very good time. For the first time, a cyclist has been elected a sportsman of the year. Georg Totschnig won a stage of the Tour de France this year. It is therefore also to be expected that this will be of appropriate interest to the public. This should also be useful in order to expand the infrastructure of cycling in Austria, and to set a focus on cycle paths in general. I wanted to take advantage of it: As Mr Prehauser has re-entered the previous debate and it seems that all the issues of the present day can now be discussed at the same time, I would like to address an argument from the previous debate. Mr Zweytick – I do not know if he is here now – if one argues that 40 per cent reject and 60 per cent consent in Salzburg, because there was only such a small participation, anyway only means that only 10 per cent of Salzburgers are against the Olympic application, then it is relatively easy to calculate that even 15 per cent were in favour, because the voter participation was so low. They argue that, because 10 percent were opposed, one could not be against it, but one could be dazzling for it because all 15 percent were for it. Then it becomes a bit mathematically complicated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: He learned that from Kreisky!]] – Did he learn that from Kreisky? I don't know anything about that. So back again: We will support major sporting events if we believe they are well built, and where it makes sense. By the way, to Olympia maybe another word: If you hear you talking, you could also get the impression that it was primarily about the application and it was particularly effective to be inside this application process. However, I dare to doubt that it has a particularly good effect if one fails several times in such applications. Our argument was not that one cannot know it before, but that the chance to get the award when one enters with a negative population decision is relatively small. In this debate, Mr Prehauser argued that we had the prize for the World Championships because we had the best approach. This is a bit bit of a double-edged in connection with Olympia, because that would probably mean that last time we didn't get Olympia because other concepts were probably better. The current Olympic concept is not really different from that four years ago. So at least you have to argue about it cleanly. Again: Support for the cycling World Cup and no support for the Olympic application, but where it deserves big events, we are also there.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9839	The next item is the speech by Mr Pack. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9861	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Yes, the 2006 Bike World Championship in Salzburg, 19th century. ==References== September – this should also be mentioned, because none of the speakers have said that so far – is the second bike World Championship in Austria after 1987. In the summer of this year, we already had a junior cycling World Championship in Burgenland, in the districts of Oberwart and Bad Tatzmannsdorf, which has already given good signs for Salzburg as regards spectators and mood. Anyone on the weekend experiences for themselves that cycling in Austria has been high again for a long time, many clubs and clubs on the streets, organizing and conducting races and events. That's what you're going to experience. Everyone in the hall probably knows one or another youth cyclist or someone who is active in the seniors, in the masters' competitions. The most important thing is that we create a sustainable interest in cycling in Austria through the World Championships. Many points have already been mentioned. The fact that Georg Totschnig has become a sportsman of the year was another milestone in the goal of achieving sustainable cycling in Austria. A successful cycling race in Salzburg will be another milestone on the way, so that many Austrians recognize cycling as a long-distance sport and create a large trailer lobby top sport in Austria. So we are looking forward to a successful cycling race in Salzburg in just under a year.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9894	The next item is Mrs Riener. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9916	Madam President, Mr. State Secretary! High house! Every year many Austrians and now Austrians join the Tour de France. As mentioned earlier, Georg Totschnig has won a sensational tour stage. Ten days later Graz is at the heart of the cycling world every year with the Old Town criterion of the “Small Newspaper”. Sportsmen with such sounding names as Lance Armstrong, Jan Ullrich, Mario Cipollini, Peter Luttenberger, Gerit Klomser and the young Steirer Peter Wrolich take part. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Finkenstein, please also mention Finkenstein!]] – Your objection is recorded in the Minutes. This event is an audience magnet every year and finds international attention. The athletes confirm that the Old Town criterion is topp organized and the atmosphere is great and that they are always happy to come. For Graz, where there is a well-developed cycle road network, this old town criterion also has a huge significance in terms of rerouting profitability. If 56 nations with around 1,000 athletes are present in Salzburg at the Rad-WM 2006 when 50 television stations are present and the pictures are broadcast for 500 million spectators, images and especially impressions of Salzburg and thus of Austria are transferred to all over the world. Austria is known for its perfect organization, for its hospitality and for its security measures at the highest level. That is why I am convinced that all the Federal Ministers involved in the World Championships, above all our Chancellor Schüssel, will take account of the motion for a resolution and support this event in the best possible way and will talk all over the world about a successful World Championship 2006.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e9950	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats as we come to the vote. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report in 1174. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 153.) [[12:56:30]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 720/A (E) by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Klaus Wittauer Austria's procedure for proof of disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste in Switzerland (1175 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10014	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10041	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The reason for the problem of the Swiss nuclear camp coming to the Austrian Parliament is a request from the government groups, which has been very controversially discussed in the Committee on the Environment. I can report that today, too, in Vorarlberg's Landtag, a request is being discussed and voted on regarding this final camp, which is uniformly supported by all the groups of the Vorarlberger Landtag, but which is fundamentally different from the government's proposal in the key points. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] This is also the reason for us not to agree to the government proposal and to introduce the Vorarlberg proposal, which is much stronger, which is much clearer, which finds much clearer words to be word-identifiable here too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Switzerland is planning the construction of an end-to-end storage facility for radioactive waste. There are several locations for this. One of them is near Schaffhausen, and that is near the border to Vorarlberg. There has long been a very intense discussion, especially in Vorarlberg, and the position of the Vorarlberg citizens is actually clear. Around Austria, there are some new nuclear expansion plans, whether this is Mochovce, 3 and 4, for which a feasibility study has already been commissioned and, in some cases, the construction of two new blocks in 2008 is under way, whether this is an additional block at Temelín or the extension of the duration of the Hungarian power plant Paks, which is to be extended by 2037. Paks had a very, very serious accident two years ago. This was the worst accident since Chernobyl. The consequences have not yet been worked out, the power plant has not been fully operational since this accident. As with this Vorarlberger problem, which is being dealt with in Switzerland, symptomatic of the whole anti-atomic policy, especially of a minister who, apart from writing letters, just tells us that it has never been a final decision that has nothing to do with this issue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] What you want to decide today in your application is basically a sedative tablet, has no focus at all. The most important thing is missing, a clear one. No to a final warehouse in Switzerland near the border. I think that is the minimum we can expect the Vorarlberg population to say that we do not want to put an end to this, at least near the border, because how does the Vorarlberg population get to face this risk? [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is also a second very important point: The only alternative to this problem of waste disposal, nuclear waste, safety risk is the exit from nuclear energy in the medium term, and this is not at all the case in your government's proposal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The only thing you will decide today is that the Federal Government is asked to work to ensure that Austria is involved in the process. I think that's far too little. I also think there is a need to explain why you are voting against the content of your own political groups in Vorarlberger Landtag. This concerns both the Freedom Club and the ÖVP. These have quite a different, very specific idea of what we should decide what to say to the Federal Government. There is also no contention of why the Austrian National Council should not say no to a border camp. I would ask for a statement on why this motion is so dizzy. I do not hope that this is what I think: although one considers the flag of anti-atomic policy to be high in one's own country, when it comes to actual concrete work, to actual clear positions towards a neighbouring country, one acts weakly and adjusted, in order not to provoke conflicts, conflicts or whatever. I would therefore like to make the request that the Vorarlberger ÖVP, the Vorarlberger SPÖ, the Freiliche Vorarlbergs and the Greens will decide together today. [[Quoted print version removed]] If you vote against this request, I really wonder what your anti-atom position is. What really hurts? Full party position, a clear no to a border-near final warehouse and to make clear that the exit from nuclear energy is the only way to go. Explain to me why you reject this today. I'd be really glad to have this explanation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have also prepared a second request for this occasion. It is about an anti-atomic offensive in our neighbouring countries, where I would like to move the Minister for the Environment to a bit of activity, namely that he in particular makes clear to the Central and Eastern European neighbours, who now have concrete expansion plans, that there must be alternatives, and that does not simply turn under the carpet by writing simple letters. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Oh!]] [[Abg. Hornek: Oho!]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10178	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Glavischnig, drawn up by Mrs Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, concerning Mr Klares No of the Minister for the Environment on Swiss nuclear waste disposal is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10243	The motion for a resolution of the Glawischnig Member concerning the offensive of German Chancellors and Environment Ministers against nuclear development plans on Austria's border was adopted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to Members is sufficiently explained, supported and therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10353	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10374	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Vorarlberg population is rightly concerned because, as a result of the Swiss energy policy with nuclear power plants operating there, Switzerland is intensively – not to say doubt – in the search for a final warehouse for its fuel rods and has come to the idea of exploring, among other things, a location close to the border to Vorarlberg, namely at Schaffhausen, which naturally fills the population with great concern. The Vorarlberg country policy is closed on the side of the population, is also discussing this point and today decides on the proposal that Mrs Glawischnig has already made. We, the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ, have taken up this concern of the Vorarlberg population and politicians and have put it into a request that, as well as the Vorarlberg request, essentially aims to demand a right of party position for both the population and the government via the Federal Government in Switzerland and thus an official participation in the procedure that has not even been opened in order to prevent damage to the population in Vorarlberg. I would also like to thank the Members of the Social Democracy Group. They supported our request in the Committee and decided with it. It was only for the Greens that this initiative of the two government parties would fail to support it. Please explain to me why you did this. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, I just did!]] Just because you missed it – especially you, Mrs. Mandak, you seem to be not even dared to speak on this subject here, because you know that you have butter on your head; you have simply slept this topic, you want to help the people of Vorarlberg – you come after us and want to drive us with a request that differs a little from the others, and now the Vorarlberg people know that we would not do everything to protect them. [[Abg. Mandak: You slept this!]] [[Abg. Mandak: You slept!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: The Vorarlberg application is different!]] This is nothing but cheap party polemics on the back of the Vorarlberg population. We strongly reject that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you were serious about this, you would have been able to contact us before the committee – the request was known for weeks before the committee – and, if you had missed something, discuss the content with us. We would have been ready for discussion. You didn't do anything about that. You have, in my view, totally surprised and without warning, rejected the proposal as the only political group in this House, and now you come with another request and want to let the people of Vorarlberg know that what you are doing here is better than what three parties in this House have already done for the people, namely to send a clear signal to the Swiss: [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: This is the Vorarlberg application!]] Dear Swiss, if not! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But this is not in the application!]] What is happening now is exactly the opposite. Now the picture of the disunity of this house is being transported to Switzerland. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can agree to our request!]] And there's no one else to blame for that than you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10510	Mr Krainer is speaking as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10531	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We agree with this proposal, even if we might wish for clearer words. We do not have a problem either, together with the Greens, the Liberals and the ÖVP, to decide on a further proposal here. I can't say that now because I don't have it yet, because it's only distributed, but I don't have a problem with it at all in principle. However, I also have to say that we have unfortunately experienced the experience of how the EIA is dealing with nuclear policy in practice, namely that – as my experience is – it is always against nuclear power for party-tactic or populist reasons only, but in the European Parliament, for example, the MEPs of the ÖVP are always voting in favour of the interests of the atomic lobby. A particularly sad example of the double play of the ÖVP as regards nuclear power is Temelín. [[Abg. Head: What you're doing now is a double game!]] We Socialists and Socialists have just said that we do not consider the Milker Protocol to be worth the paper on which it is written, but only a placebo. You, Minister, have said: First: This makes Temelín safer. Secondly, The Milk Treaty becomes part of the Accession Treaty with the Czech Republic. Thirdly, The Treaty and thus the improvements in security will be acquitable. And fourthly, Temelín will not go into permanent operation until all safety concerns are cleared. What's left of it? – First of all: It is not part of the Treaty of Accession. Secondly, It is not acceptable to the European Court of Justice either. Thirdly, Temelín has not become more secure. Fourth: Temelín has been in permanent operation, although there has been no improvement in safety. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: It's not in continuous operation yet!]] In fact, there is nothing left of your announcement policy. I now have a report from the bilateral nuclear expert meeting with the Czech Republic yesterday which shows that, despite the request of the representatives of Upper Austria and Burgenland, no call has been made to the Czech side to resolve the security deficits still in place – listens! – the Austrian final report on the milking process of the Czech side was only formally presented, and the existence of the serious security defects, as clearly demonstrated in the report, was not addressed and the Austrian delegation management has, on several occasions, clearly distanced itself from the opinions of the two federal representatives. – So in reality, then, look behind closed doors of dealing with the ÖVP and the representatives of the ÖVP with nuclear power. On the basis of the Milker contract, you have the opportunity to protest and act more clearly here and to object to the fact that there is a permanent operation. They say it's not in continuous operation yet. You have the possibility, and we expect you to act here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10584	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10606	Mr President. Minister! High house! Member of the Krainer can't leave it. The Committees are as follows: A hundred times a statement is made, and then he quotes from some reports or other things that have probably even been torn out of the context. Minister Pröll has given very clear answers in the Committee, but you do not want to hear them, you do not want to take note of them, but you do so in the party policy that is being carried out on the back of the Austrians. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: He doesn't listen!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It's about an end camp!]] Mrs Glavischnig! As you address the question of security: First of all, there has always been consensus on parties in anti-atomic policy. You left him. And if I take the safety for Austria, I have to say that the motion for a resolution says: “On the basis of the expert opinion, take all necessary steps to avoid any dangers to Austria”. That's more satisfying than your 100 kilometers. Our experts may come to the conclusion that 100 kilometers are not enough at all. And now there's a little bit of a challenge, you've forgotten. A member of the committee has even gone so far from you to the Austrian Federal Government that we support a Swiss final camp because of Seibersdorf so that we can dispose of our own radioactive waste. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, sure! That's it!]] You know what? I am now and then ashamed that you are running out there anti-atomic policy with a big question mark and not supporting this federal government in its efforts to ensure the security of Austria. And when I look at the many listeners there, I hope they form an opinion on how you understand policy for the future. We are making policy for the future, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10683	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very glad that today we have the opportunity to discuss once again the question of the anti-atomic course of the Austrian Federal Government and this House. In the past – and we will do so in the future – we have taken a clear position on this issue of the assessment of nuclear power as the source of energy for the future. No matter who places nuclear power in Europe, there is no support for us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In all the Council formations in the European Union, including where I am responsible, in the Environment Council, we are the country which takes a clear position, while other representatives of neighbouring countries have often failed to take this position in recent years, although they would have been predestined for this, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of their orientation. Now back to the subject raised by Mrs Glavischnig. Yes, we are against border nuclear power stations, we are against the renaissance of nuclear power in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What are you doing about it? It's secret!]] But, Mrs Glawischnig, you also know very well that, when we join the European Union in 1995, we have insisted very persistently that energy management remains national responsibility. And why? – Because we did not want to and do not want anyone else in Europe to decide on energy sites and energy sources in Austria in the future. But if that is the case – and this is a great success; we can thus decide on our own energy supply – then we must also accept that other national states also decide on their own energy sources. It is right and important – that is what we can do, and that is also the responsibility of the Federal Government – to make it clear that, in the event of extension of the term, we will be committed to re-planning and re-establishing all bilateral and multilateral treaties in order to ensure that such projects cannot be implemented in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. Now on the real issue, on the question of a final warehouse or a pre-selection for a final storage in relation to radioactive waste in Switzerland. Switzerland has set nuclear power in the past and now also has to comply with its legal requirements – and the authorities are doing so at present – with regard to disposal, the final storage has to provide evidence of disposal. In other words, it must test all possible locations, where a final storage for radioactive waste would be possible in Switzerland at all. Since you, honourable Mrs Glavischnig, meant that the government would have slept on this question and done nothing: Long before They were awakened on this issue, namely, 7th. July, I have already discussed very, very intensively with the Minister for the Environment from Switzerland, Moritz Leuenberger, how we can bring our voice as well as securely as possible in bilateral relations. He assured me at the time that we will, of course, be involved in the whole selection process. And so runs between 13. ==References== It is now a civil participation procedure on December of this year. We – Austria and Vorarlberg – have already discussed with Switzerland in recent months and years with the Nuclear Information Agreement as a basis and will, of course, bring us with our concerns, with our position of rejection of nuclear power and also of final bearings. But this must be scientifically supported, and we will clearly evaluate the plans in Switzerland at the beginning of December with a expert opinion from the Federal Environment Agency and present our plans and arguments. This is a precautionary, targeted anti-atomic policy, as we understand it. Populism has lost nothing there. Populism leads Switzerland to do everything to keep us outside. Discussions and negotiations – even if you say so often that only letters are written back and forth – are the right way in Europe to move forward together. Our position is clear: We do not want any nuclear power, no new power plants, no extension of life, and we are also very critical of plans for the near-border disposal of radioactive waste. That's our position. We will clearly and clearly refer this position to Switzerland, scientifically supported.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10752	The next speaker was Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10773	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have always shown unity on this issue since that troubled construction of Zwentendorf and the subsequent negative referendum in this House. Innumerable motions for resolutions, innumerable unanimous committee statements show the clear attitude this House has always taken on the subject of nuclear policy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Greens, I do not understand why you now seem to want to leave this way of unanimity on this issue of the Schaffhausen End Camp. I'm sorry. Here you have the presumption that you apparently want to deceive away from your own failure, your own failure. [[Abg. Head: It could be that way!]] Because what is fact? – Our Minister has already found that he was already on the 7th. I've been talking to you on July. ==References== On September 6, an official event of the Swiss authorities was held. In October, the Vorarlberger ÖVP submitted an application in the Landtag, which was then probably carried by the Greens, but it was submitted by the Vorarlberger ÖVP. ==References====External links== In October, in turn, a request was made by the People's Party. Where were the Green Initiatives? – Today, you are trying to make a request that is equal to that of the Vorarlberg state government, but you can rightly claim that you have really slept here. Perhaps this is to explain that in the recent past you have held a federal party meeting in which – and I would like to congratulate you already – you have done something really great by nominated the Vorarlberg Green Members to third place. I would like to congratulate Mr Mandak on this decision across the party borders, and I would also like to congratulate the club leadership for having placed a Vorarlberger so well. However, I would like to ask you very strongly to support our request unanimously so that we can speak with a clear voice to Switzerland. Please, go inside and take note of the interests of the Vorarlberg population, the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10808	As the next speaker, Mr Bauer, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10829	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree that the question of nuclear energy, the Swiss final camp, not only the current debate It is in fact possible to see it in a larger context. Due to the increasing energy demand, due to the necessary closures, a renaissance of nuclear energy in Europe can indeed be determined. We are talking about some 600 000 megawatts that will be used in Europe by 2020, about 3,000 megawatts in Austria. This means that, if approximately 1 000 megawatts are calculated per power plant, we need 600 power plants. While many countries have large expansion plans, Austria is vehemently opposed to nuclear energy – for good reason. Each of us has already set out its position at many events. In my opinion, it would be very important to have an energy policy that demonstrates and makes clear that even without nuclear energy a full energy supply is possible. And as long as this evidence is not provided or this approach is not chosen and as long as you are confronted with many nuclear imports – including in Austria – there will be no credibility across the borders. It is therefore the most important thing for me to develop an energy scenario in which, because of many energy combinations, a supply for the future is ensured. If this is not done, one will always go the easier way, namely to extend or build a nuclear power plant. There are many plans in this area in Europe, and even Switzerland wants to increase the number of nuclear power plants from five to ten, which is a doubling of its power plant stock. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a threatening scenario. We need to be more convincing. The mission to the Federal Minister is therefore to promote in this Europe for the possibility of an exit from nuclear energy on the basis of combinations of different energy sources. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10869	The next speaker was Mrs Mandak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10890	Mr President. High house! Dear colleague Karlheinz Kopf, you provoked this word message with your statements. You talked about cheaper party polemics, which is absolutely not. I can't be accused of sleeping on topics, but I certainly didn't. Minister Pröll said that he was on 7 June. In July, a meeting with the Swiss Minister. Therefore, I would like to say in all modesty that I am on 22 February. November 2001 – 2001! – a press conference with Raimund Kamm, an anti-AKW expert from Germany, in which we discussed the problem of intermediate camps in Germany and the end camp in Benken. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The success was staggering!]] That was also the subject in 2001. We all knew that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely in this direction that our criticism is that this time has fallen asleep. I've been running phone calls. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] – Of course, Minister. Then you didn't take it seriously enough, don't be angry with me. I called the ministry with Vienna at the time. That's what it said, you know that this is in progress, but that's not so serious and you've got it all under control. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who are you calling in sleep with?]] It is not only a question of how differentiated one's position is, but it is a very clear no to an atomic camp in Switzerland and at the Austrian border. And this very clear no has never come into vehemence. We requested it, but unfortunately you didn't. To your request: I think it is strange that, as you have announced, you will not agree to the request, which all your colleagues in Vorarlberg support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] This is not understandable to me and, I don't think, for the people in Austria. If you make a request, which, I quote from the motion for a resolution, says, ‘the fact that Austria has been actively and fully involved in the debate on Swiss intentions from the outset’, I cannot accept this motion because it is not true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Further, write in this request: The Federal Government is to “responsibly use all the means at its disposal to represent the Austrian interests for the protection of the environment and the population”. Unfortunately, I can't vote for it because you don't, otherwise you'd be green if you did. [[Abg. Head: If you couldn't tell me before the committee, then would we have shared...? It's party polemics!]] It is clear that you are professionals and know exactly when such texts are in a motion for a resolution, it is impossible for the opposition to accept such a request. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Cheap Polemik!]] I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Sieber, very much for the third place of congratulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e10997	The next speaker was Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11018	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some previous speakers have already mentioned on the question of nuclear energy that Switzerland will have a total of ten nuclear power plants in the final development, although – and that has already been mentioned – there is still no safe nuclear repository. The Swiss National Co-operative for the storage of radioactive waste has therefore been searching for several years ago, and it seems that we all know that they have been found. There are the necessary studies, the necessary preparations for the construction of this final camp near the Austrian border. Mr Minister, you have said that it will be – and that is right – in a few days, in concrete terms on 12 December. December this year, a civil participation process, but the Swiss citizen. It is still not clear in what form the citizens of Austria and, above all, Vorarlberg will be able to participate in it. I would remind you, Minister Pröll, that there is a nuclear information agreement between the Republic of Austria and Switzerland, which ultimately says that the Austrian population has a chance to participate in such measures. The Swiss Minister for Energy, Mr Leuenberger, has not yet made a very specific statement on how this participation will look. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mühlviertler Member, I understand the fears of the Vorarlbergers and the Vorarlbergers. I understand the fears for the reason that we have similar fears in the Mühlviertel. Mr Minister, I call on you to: The concerns and interests of the Vorarlbergers are not represented with the same laxity as the concerns and interests of the Mühlviertlers in recent years. Show, please, more commitment to the fight against the dangerous nuclear projects on our border! I'm looking for you: Also, use the Presidency to finally achieve something internationally in the sense of the Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11063	The next speaker was Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11085	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am also very concerned – just like many of my previous speakers – that, in the face of rising oil prices, there is a new nuclear offensive in Europe. In Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Switzerland, Finland and more recently in Italy, the idea is to extend the operation of existing and partly outdated nuclear power plants or to build new nuclear power plants at all. The Austrian Federal Government has unfortunately not been particularly active for years, especially as regards nuclear power plants in the border area with Austria; and I am fully behind the Vorarlberg population and for its protection. As a Styrian Member, I also call for increased activities, particularly in the case of Slovenia adjacent to the Styria, because there is a consideration to build a second one next to the Krško nuclear power station. The letter from the Slovenian Government stating that no decision has yet been taken on the extension of Krško or the construction of a new nuclear power station proves that Slovenia is still not prepared to make a clear no decision, both as regards the extension of Krško and the construction of a new nuclear power station. In addition, this nuclear power plant in Krško is even in an earthquake-hazardous area. Slovenia is also seeking a radioactive intermediate camp. Eight Slovenian communities are in conversation as a location, including a community very close to the Styrian border. The final decision for this site should already fall in 2007, as for Switzerland as a final warehouse in 2010. It is no longer much time to act, Mr Federal Minister. You have to act before the final decisions, after that it is definitely too late! I also miss the vehement commitment of the Federal Government and the Minister for the Environment to the Euratom Treaty. In the next five years, the EU wants to increase the budget for the Euratom programme by an incredible 130 percent from currently 1.35 billion to 3.1 billion euros. If this were to happen, this would provide a decisive impetus for the expansion of nuclear power in Europe. In order for this to happen, everything must be done by our government. This project must be prevented. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will also agree with the two requests made by the Greens! Chernobyl is supposed to be a special teaching and warning to all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11128	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. – I ask the honourable Members to take a seat. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1175 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 154.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on Klares No from the Minister for the Environment on the Swiss nuclear waste disposal plant. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a shame!]] [[Abg. Head: It's a shame how you act!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the offensive of German Chancellors and Environment Ministers against nuclear development plans at Austria's border. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[13:33:49]] 6. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1147, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the passenger vehicle consumer information law, the 2002 Waste Management Act, the Emissions Certificate Act and the Immissions Protection Act Air (Environmental Act 2005) (1176 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11205	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Krainer, with a welcome 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11232	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fine dust theme makes it back into the Hohe Haus. There are already a number of studies, including work by the Federal Environment Agency, under which you are subject, Mr Umweltminister, who has been dealing with the problems of fine dust and who finds two main points: First: They note that fine dust is not only a local problem, but a cross-regional problem. The second concerns the identification of where fine dust is emitted, namely, the first part of the emissions is the industry, second in the transport sector, where it is necessary to distinguish between trucks and cars, and third in the so-called off-road sector, i.e. construction machinery, tractors and agricultural machinery. What are the federal states doing now? – So far, they are setting up within the framework of the IG-L when they work out action plans, where the fine dust is produced. What does the ÖVP do with this novelle? – It operates pure client policy. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Stop it!]] First of all, the environmental spokesman of the ÖVP, who is the Secretary General of the Economic Federation in his civil profession, says: The industry must get out of the law, construction machinery must get out of the law, freight forwarders, the truck area must also get out of the law. [[Abg. Großruck: What are you doing in the civil profession?]] Then the Minister for the Environment, who is a Minister for Agriculture in the Civil Service, says: Agriculture has to get out of the law. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Agriculture Minister is a civil profession?]] – You're still on it! Then Mr Gorbach comes and notices that everything will be stretched out and would like to have something. Now the BZÖ is only the very small junior partner of this coalition and may not do much, but only a little. He gets a veto right for transport measures after three months. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is not a veto right, but in three months there must be an agreement!]] This is the client policy of the ÖVP with the attachment BZÖ – and a clear no from my group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: The only Posch understood!]] But there is not only a clear no from the Social Democrats, but also a clear no of the countries, regardless of who places the head of state there. All the environmental representatives, across all parties, have clearly said that this law binds us, this law prevents us from doing something effectively against the fine dust. The countries, together with the Federal Government and also at international level, want to address the problem of fine dust and offer real solutions. And what you are doing as the Federal Minister is that you are actually shattering the countries, and we see that as well. They always claim and do it again that they will give the federal states new and more skills so that they can do something against the fine dust. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Finally understood, Mr Deputies!]] – Yes, not only did I understand it, but I also read it. You do not seem to be able to read your own government paper. On page 8, the following is added: “In addition, the IG-L sets a relatively narrow framework, since only legal measures under Sections 13 to 16 may be included in a catalogue of measures as a result of the existing federal competences; other areas of measures are used by the countries and also by the Federal Government, but cannot be represented within the framework of the IG-L in force.” That's in your government paper. The only thing you do is that you write in the regulation for the IG-L measures that the countries can take anyway and also do as you yourself write. That's the only extension you see. I'll tell you one thing: People are not interested in what is contained in the regulation and whether the regulation says what else would be done, but people are interested that politics – no matter what level – takes reasonable action against the fine dust, and you do not put it with this novelle at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You do not have the responsibility to create fine dust in Austria, this responsibility cannot be borne by any individual, but you bear the responsibility that the federal states will no longer be able to take effective action against the fine dust in the future and will no longer be able to take measures that effectively solve the fine dust problem. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is stupid!]] They are politically responsible for the fact that this will no longer be possible in the future, regardless of which federal state, this applies to all nine federal states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11376	As the next speaker, Mr Deputies has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11412	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, as the opposition party, as Mr Krainer has done as spokesperson of the Social Democratic Party, one can define his role in such a way that almost in any case, in any law and in any matter discussed here, one assumes the opposition role and all of it for bad, all for nothing, all for no purpose, and to this end it is also subject to the ruling will or even evil intention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] One can, of course, define his role. You do not care to continue in this role, rather than to deal with things in a substantial and differentiated way. We'd rather do the latter: We deal with this and try to find appropriate solutions to real problems – and the fine dust problem is unfortunately an actual problem. That distinguishes us from you, which will always distinguish us from you. Thank God it does! The voters will also take a picture of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I just take an example from this law. For example, the national leaders now have the opportunity to limit traffic in such a way as to introduce speed limits on roads that the federal government would actually be responsible for: motorways and highways. I think it is right for the local head of state to have the emergency expertise so to speak, that he has the opportunity to take action as quickly as possible in such a case. But the Minister of Transport has an overarching responsibility for transport, which does not stop at the borders of a federal country and not at the borders of the state territory. Of course, it bears the overall responsibility in transport. Indeed, it may well be that such a measure, adopted in a federal country, may cause congestion or similar effects on transport, which may even cause more emissions, about a few kilometres above the national border, than are prevented by the measure. As a result, it makes a great deal of sense for the Ministers of Transport to be involved in a three-month period, after the head of state has taken emergency measures, and to discuss these matters with the head of state and, in case of doubt, even make the decision that these measures, if they have such effects in another area, should be withdrawn. Nothing else is provided for in this law. The claim that the Minister of Transport would pursue something else, and the statement that the protection of the population would not be important enough to him, have been taken from the air, are freely invented. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exactly! That's the truth!]] The Minister of Transport has not deserved this. This has not deserved this federal government. And this has not deserved the population in particular. Then: It is with this law that it is precisely what it has been created to protect the population. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Just the opposite!]] But of course we do not set up life in Austria, neither the economic life nor the mobility of the people in that country. This cannot, of course, be done, and there are some of these measures that are subject to consideration between what is necessary in terms of restriction and what is possible in terms of restriction. We find this balance – you don't want to find it because you want to make total opposition. Stay with me!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11509	Mrs Glavischnig-Piesczek is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11542	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! High house! This law is the opposite of balance. This novel is the opposite of a balanced protection of the population – expressly! Mr Kopf, take a look at what happened this past year: We already had limit values for fine dust in March and April. At the beginning of the heating season, we now have limit values for fine dust, which is now 90 days in cities such as Graz, which means a health risk through three months. This is not an impairment, it is a threat to human health, especially to children. But what are you doing? – They are now presenting a novel that means an easy and free drive for speed 160 km/h, including in loaded areas. [[Abg. Head: Such a nonsense!]] It also means the approval of installations themselves in heavily burdened areas. In addition, it is EU-disputed because the most important point, that is to say, preventive health protection, that is, the obligation to do something in the run-up to health risks, is not realized. – This is an evidence of poverty for every environmental policy! They have desperately tried to defend the argument, why at a tempo limit that is proven to work... [[Abg. Head: desperate people...!]] On the Tauern motorway, there is a speed limit of 100 km/h in the affected area, and this speed limit is reaching and means a reduction of the environmental impact. I do not understand at all why the health of people, especially of 60 000 children in Austria, is meated and you are presenting a novel that means exactly that: more load, more pollutants, more health risk, not health pollution! [[Members of the Greens shall keep up to date a transparency entitled “Is this the future of our children, Mr. Minister?”]] I do not understand, Mr Environment Minister, how, in the light of this year's report, which is a devastating one, you can produce here and defend these novelties. [[Abg. Head: (pointing to the above-mentioned transparency) Mr President! Can't you take that off?]] From our point of view, you have absolutely deserved the predicate “Environmental Pollution Minister” with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11636	I should like to ask the honourable Member to give away the transparency. The Minister has already been able to read it, it is big enough; You can clear it up again. [[The Transparent will be shipped.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11658	Minister for the Environment, I really ask you: Is this the future of the children you recommend? From Balance not a trace, but filters! Is that the only thing you think of it? If that wasn't the case, you'd have to put another novel. I would like to explain the details again. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Don't make any calls, but listen to me for a moment now! What is the point of providing for action by the countries, such as the imposition of temporary reductions in burdened areas, for good reason, with a veto of the Minister of Transport, which it can carry out after three months? I am talking about a Minister of Transport, who, contrary to all the opinions of experts of Tempo 160, has put himself in the head, which is a complete nonsense, which means additional dead. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Well done! Yes, I do! And also implement!]] Anyone who supports it buys that there is more traffic deaths in Austria. That's proven! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Why? There are fewer traffic deaths in Germany!]] The Ministry of Transport is currently making a big campaign, where you can see exactly the pictures of those dead young people I am talking about, where they say: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The Ministry of the Interior!]] Excessive speed was the cause of the accident! If you support such a thing, then you really do not belong to this house. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I support Tempo 160!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Whether I'm sitting here or not, that's the voter's rating, not you!]] I am totally incomprehensible that you are supporting such measures, which will make more deaths on the streets in the future. 130 km/h are absolutely enough! Tempo 160 means more dead, means more pollutants, means more noise. What is supposed to be reasonable is an absolute mystery to me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You do not believe that the national leaders of Jux and Tolery are hanging out of Tempolimits! These are reasoned regulations. This Immission Protection Act is the only instrument you have to combat air pollutants. I don't understand why the Minister of Transport should rule there at once. These are not arbitrary decisions. They base the countries that they make from jux and tollery speed limits. The opposite is true! Consider what it takes to resign streets! That costs millions of euros. What country does this do if it can be certain that the “Tempo-160 Minister” wants to have it reassembled three months later? Which country will continue to do so? All nine federal states spoke out against this novel. The ÖVP countries are also involved. They all say: This limits us in our work to contribute to the fine staubreduction. All the federal states say that, even Vorarlberg. The Environmental Land Providers of Lower Austria also share this opinion, and they do not come from the SPÖ or from the Greens. Your own people say: This is a very bad law, it hinders us in our work! But they decide. That is completely incomprehensible! Second point: Big projects. – This is not a balance, it is not about the fact that any economic life should no longer be possible, but there is a very fine distinction between health hazards. These people usually have to take them in Austria, as sad as it is. But health risks must not be approved. But if health hazards are to be feared in areas – and this was the case in the Spielberg region, for example, and decisive for the No – if health hazards are at stake, then there must be an absolute limit, but this limit will be clear. They are also for large-scale projects where there is a risk to health of the population. You have to explain this to the people, explain to the parents of children who have to go to the hospital each year and have to breathe with a lung incubator et cetera. That's true! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Smoking!]] Third point – one that you always deal with very casually and army – is the question: What does the European Union provide, what must all other European countries comply with, and what does Austria do? Austria always makes it very easy, especially in environmental laws. This, in turn, is a law that is EU-absorbing, at a core, and the key point is that even if there is a risk of health impairment, measures must already be taken, so that preventive health protection needs to be done. I think that is the most important thing that one can offer parents, what one can offer children in this situation: to take action in advance. You should not get sick first, and then something will be done first. This is lacking in Austrian law, but the EU Directive requires it. We have now sent a complaint to the EU Commission. Our assessment and also the assessment of the University of Graz – and it is not a Green Trade or Sub-organisation – is that this law is EU-absorbing. If you want to have it, the European Court of Justice will condemn us – on the basis of a lack of preventive health protection. And you explain this to the affected parents! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11788	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11809	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies of the opposition and especially those of the Greens, I will “gratulate” you on how you have now produced pictures of children, symbolically with dolls and with gas masks. That's how you deal with the whole thing by symbolically putting dolls in plastic bags and removing them. They rely on populism to get such pictures – we are committed to ensuring that the health of children and people in that country will not suffer in the future. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Empty words!]] If we continue this symbolically, you have obviously done child-moving on the grounds of lack of competence in the environmental field today. On the other hand, I can tell you that we will be able to take the gas masks away from the children in the future with this novel. This is a wise environmental policy for the future: not to produce images, but to produce laws for the benefit of people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we decide here today is, contrary to many claims, an actual improvement in the fight against fine dust pollution, namely finding correct answers together with the federal states, and in this way getting to grips with the problem of fine dust over the next few years. This is not done on its own, nor is it through mutual debt allocations, but it is only with wise concepts. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all!]] We have prepared this novel in a very strong vote between the Federal Government and the countries. We'll be on 25 May. In November, the Land Environment Conference also discussed the package of measures. Perhaps in this debate you constantly forget to mention what is contained in this novel. Unlike what you say, there are actual improvements far beyond. For example, with this novelle – a subject that is completely turned under the table – we introduce limits for heavy metals such as arsenic, cadmium, nickel, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons two years earlier than the European Union. Two years earlier! You're going to put that all under the table. This represents a massive improvement for the environment and for health quality in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this innovation, we are reaching a closer proximity to the public in the field of air pollution. You also forget to mention that. Closeness to citizens is always a matter for you! This has not been mentioned by you in this debate. With the SUP Directive, Strategic Environmental Assessment, we set a very clear emphasis on the issue of proximity to citizens and citizens' participation. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are expanding the portfolio of measures for the national leaders – and this has always been a wish of the countries. It will in future be possible for countries with the programmes of action we are defining here today to operate far beyond the yet possible portfolio, namely with structural measures, with private sector measures in the development of public transport. There are promotion programs and awareness-raising. The palette has been massively expanded. This has always been the wish of the countries. I ask you: Where is the problem, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why don't the countries believe this?]] You can assume that, after this agreement, we will also agree on measures from the federal government today in the IG air with the federal states in the coming days and weeks until the national environmental conference. I can also tell you: More than €7 million will be used by the end of 2006. That too remained unmentioned by you. That's right. We have launched the first environmental promotion projects with this new instrument. This is where companies approach us and use this funding to make an investment in health and environmental quality. This is a precautionary policy! That's why this law is a smart, right novel. [[Abg. Krainer: Actory is that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Populism, producing images for the media may help in the short-term political discussion process, but does not help people. That's an essential difference! That is why I would be glad if we were to find a majority in favour of this amendment today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11933	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e11967	You can be careful. – This is relatively simple. First of the facts to be corrected: The Minister has just said that this novel would have been prepared in close coordination with the countries. I'm actually correcting: That's not true! There were no negotiations with the countries. The joint meeting with the country's environmental representatives in September 2005 was cancelled by the Minister a few days earlier and is only taking place after the decision-making process. [[Abg. Grill: This is not an actual correction! This is a political assessment!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I had to come here because of you!]] In addition, I am glad that the ÖVP can't say anything about client policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12028	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12050	Mr President. Minister! Mr Krainer, in your first speech you have spoken about agriculture and said that we are once again holding agriculture out. To this end, I can tell you: This is another typical example of how to make good environmental policy. We have over 80 percent of all farmers involved in environmental programmes. This means that farmers are environmental improvers, that they are those who actually bring their work into these programmes, and I think that is good. One should praise this and not give the impression that agriculture would be the dirt slumber number one in Austria. That's not true! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The IG air is a milestone. The Greens have adopted environmental policy. Environmental policy makes this government. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No! The liberals have approved of politics!]] We make environmental policy by deciding on the IG air. Now I come to the theme “Tempo 160”. – You know very well that Hubert Gorbachal’s Minister of Transport has put safety first. This is an ambitious goal. Much of it has already been achieved because we already have more than 100 dead. Hubert Gorbachal's Minister of Transport will never allow road safety to be affected or people to be harmed. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, yes!]] Remember that! Because you keep talking to speed 160: Hubert Gorbach says there should be Tempo 160 only on three-track roads, only where there are the best conditions for it. Only there is allowed, he says. I can tell you: People have been driving there for a long time at tempo 160. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: That's not true!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Greens in Germany – I'm just saying this because you're always trying to say something that's not right here – have been in the government for a long time, but in Germany I can still drive at speed 200. Did they get rid of it? No, no, no, Interestingly, Germany has on average less traffic deaths than Austria. So can this be connected? [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: It's more controlled!]] I want to have said it here once so that the people who listen here also know what it is about. Now to the IG air. – The heads of state or state cannot take any action by themselves. Minister of Transport Hubert Gorbach has proposed that the traffic calming systems – you know; €35 million per piece – can be connected to the emission measurement stations. What does that mean? That means that the speed would automatically be reduced. It is not true what Mrs Glawischnig said that millions of euros are spent on transport boards. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Sure!]] Traffic calming system means that a reduction in traffic is automatically indicated. Next point: Why do you think the heads of state don't like this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Because all of them are hit. That is, there is a speed reduction, and at some point when the thresholds are exceeded, stop. That's the goal! If I want to protect the population, then if the thresholds are exceeded, I have to take the measure – just as in Bologna – that traffic is stopped. But you don't want that! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You want to drive speed 160 – and then stop!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] In this context, I should like to ask you: Power Mr. Anschober in Upper Austria anything in this direction? Has he put in place any measures in this regard? I haven't heard of it yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] The IG air can be used there. Minister Hubert Gorbach will never do anything against the population. [[No-run on the greens.]] If, after three months, he has a measure taken by the country that refers to a high-level road network and takes a decision where unanimity must prevail, I think it is good. I ask you: Why should the Minister of Transport not do that? Should it be so that the Minister of Transport on his roads, on the streets where he sets up measures to bring traffic from A to B as soon as possible, has no right to decide? [[Abg. May. Kogler: “Are Roads ”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Oils: The streets do not belong to him!]] Is it not true that the population wants the Minister of Transport to be responsible for the high-level transport network? Or is it supposed to be the head of state at once? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It's about air pollutants! That's where Minister Pröll is in charge!]] You talked about something completely different earlier, and I'm just giving you the answer to what you asked. They do not listen to the committee. You don't listen to the Minister either. Let me tell you again: This government, together with the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, is making environmental policy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You don't do anything!]] However, as you have already demonstrated in the field of nuclear policy, you have adopted yourself by environmental policy. We are continuing our environmental policy and people will experience it with the IG air, where there is a realignment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12259	The next item is the report by Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12280	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Environmental Adjustment Act 2005 should best be qualified as follows: as a pit for numerous irrigations in the environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In 29 pages of the text of the law, numerous provisions have been incorporated, some of which have caused severe criticism – contrary to your representations. I would like to highlight two aspects: first, the IG-air area discussed, and second, the waste management sector. Mr Krainer gave a detailed opinion on the IG-Air area. I must therefore only join in and note briefly that this novelle prevents, rather than forces, the effective fight against fine dust problems. Ladies and gentlemen! The second amendment, and the problematic one I would like to address, concerns waste management. First, the facts: Since 2002, the Waste Management Act has provided for an abuse of collecting and recycling systems close to the budget. It is also subject to the ARA system as a de facto monopolist in the collection and disposal of household waste. Now to the present: The Environmental Adjustment Act incorporates a significant watering of this abuse control in the Waste Management Act, in concrete terms through longer reporting periods and intervals and a strengthening of the application for a review. In the future, only every four will have to draw up an opinion instead of every three years. The automatic assessment of tariff changes is not carried out. If such an opinion could so far be requested by a person, three members of the Advisory Board will have to agree in future. This change will make it even less transparent in the future than before, which is neither in the sense of consumers nor of the communities nor in the sense of the economy. I should like to remind you that a recent opinion on the ARA system for 2003 has been drawn up in the framework of this abuse supervision. This opinion has cost €600 000 in words and writing, contains a number of criticisms and is probably kept under cover. The interested public, but also the Parliament, will be abstained from what the experts have to say about the accumulation of two-digit million surpluses in the ARA system or the efficiency of the system or possible cross-subsidisation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is unclear which Minister of the Environment Pröll will draw from these results. Federal Minister! We do not want to assume that the additional burden of abuse supervision is a consequence of the ARA system opinion.- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the wide range of criticisms, we demand more transparency on the part of social democracy instead of less, a press release. This ARA system opinion and a special examination of the ARA system since it existed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12347	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12369	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This Environmental Adjustment Act 2005 includes numerous improvements in the Waste Management Act, Emissions Certificate Act and the Immissions Protection Act Air. This law also takes account of technical progress, including car and waste management. In addition to the traditional type of consumer information on fuel consumption and CO2, the Consumer Information Act also allows the use of electronic displays. The external evaluations contained in the applicable waste management regulations shall be summarised, a registration of professionals and specialised bodies carrying out sampling of waste and investigations prior to landfill shall be provided. This serves on the one hand to increase quality, on the other hand, landfill operators receive a substantial assistance in selecting the contractors. At the execution level, specific requirements were drawn up for deposit holders for financial assurance for the fulfilment of the conditions and obligations during the operation and during the post-care period. In addition to solutions to the problem of fine dust, the proposed amendment to the IG-L makes it clear in the transport sector about the possibilities of the Heads of State for the adoption of restrictions which are generally in line with the wishes of the countries. The amendment of the Emissions Certificate Act primarily serves the EU Linking Directive. The innovation of the EZG enables Austrian companies participating in emissions trading to be credited to so-called green investments made abroad for their national emission account. On the one hand, it is economically wise, businesses will be able to reduce greenhouse gases more cost-effectively, and on the other hand, from the perspective of global climate protection, it is a useful measure to achieve Kyoto targets. It also includes rules on emissions trading, an important instrument of climate protection, the second allocation plan for the 2008 to 2012 Kyoto target period and the related commitments. In short: Many improvements – I therefore ask you to agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12415	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12436	Mr President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Ellmauer! If I had time, I could disprove your statements point by point. However, I would like to focus on the essential, and the essential thing, Mr Ellmauer, is the health – the health of our children, the health of old people, and perhaps your own health. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ellmauer: The health of the entire population!]] Minister! Why are you not grateful for the fact that we, the Greens, are calling for more action to be taken to improve the environmental protection of the population, so that more is done for the health protection of the population, that preventive action is taken? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Because we don't need you to do that!]] The EU gives us a directive that demands prevention. And what are you doing, Minister? What are your officials doing? What's your working group doing? – They take measures that take even longer than before. Reference to Your own law, which is so praised today, I can say: The current scheme may last 21 months until a catalogue of measures is adopted after the occurrence of limit values due to fine dust exposure, as far as the current situation is concerned. Today it will be decided – and this is your personal proposal – that it will not last 21 months, until it is performed, but 24 months. And that's where you tell me that's progress, Mr. Minister?- Oh, my God! Mr Ellmauer, that is where you tell me that this is progress?- Oh, my God! They extend the already long period between the occurrence of the load, the risk of health and the imposition of measures to 24 months. Jobs You're going to: Someone has a heart attack at home, you wait, maybe five hours, and then the emergency doctor is called. You act the same way with a fine dust load. They let you measure, you have limit values found – and then, 24 months later, there is a catalogue of measures! I mean, that's thank you. This is abdication as an environmental minister, that is capitulating in front of the industry! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This, Mr Environment Minister, is also abject and capitulate against a false transport policy, which I am now discussing on a second aspect. Why do you allow that exactly that Minister of Transport, who repeats – repeatedly! – Tempo 160 calls for, now that the final decision has been taken on speed limits in the individual Länder, especially as the individual countries can regulate the speed limits for themselves, autonomously and in line with the threat, according to the load? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. He didn't!]] Why do you allow this competence to be central to a transport minister who has a mentality that demands more pollution, more deaths, more injury? – This is the second abject you practice here today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then, Minister, you talk – and apologise, but now I am really getting really angry – about the expansion of public transport. At the same time, there is a bill from the Minister of Transport which provides that the federal states will most likely have less resources for the expansion of public transport in the future than they are now, because the adjustment to the rail infrastructure benefit fee of 7 percent is not provided for by this law every year. There is, therefore, a bill that aims to change public transport, but countries are getting far too little money in order to really pursue an offensive, an alternative transport policy. They are talking here about the expansion of public transport. Please, make sure that Minister of Finance gives Grasser more money so that finally an attractive public transport network is offered and people can give up on the car! This is our demand that you should actually join. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion: You also know, Minister of the Environment, that all the federal states have rejected your proposal, without exception. But today You are here and say that the federal states will then take the appropriate measures and implement them. You also said that the federal states had an opinion with you and so on and so on. – That is not true, Mr. Federal Minister! The opposite is the case: With this bill you prevent the federal states from getting effective tools to do something to protect the health of children, to protect the health of adults and to protect the health of old people. But you obviously don't care, Minister of State! In any case, we are massively opposed to this law, which is a real deterioration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12533	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12554	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Moser, I believe, on behalf of all the Members of the Government, that health is a very serious concern and will also be in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Then do something!]] As for your statement regarding the period of time needed to take any countermeasures, Mrs Moser, I can only say that you should read this law more precisely. It is already a difference whether certain periods and times are indicated in order to create documentation – or to take action for acute action. A hundred percent is certain that, on the one hand, the federal government and on the other hand also the national leaders will react very quickly if there are acute problems, especially with regard to dust pollution. Ladies and gentlemen! Incontrovertible is the fact that transport is a major burden on the environment, on the air, and that it is therefore all the more important to take measures that are not counterproductive, but that are effective, which are not wasteful cases, which, if only possible, no one keeps. It is therefore a question of comprehensible measures, because only such measures are accepted by the population as such. If you, Mrs Moser, put transport Minister Gorbach to the vote, I think it would be a great deal if you were to put it first and not take the environment into account. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: What is Tempo 160?]] Furthermore, you have claimed that the environment is basically no matter what the vice chancellor. In your committee you write of the Greens of a “Lex Gorbach”; Mrs Glawischnig also spoke of the Tempo-160 Minister. [[Abg. Oils: Sure!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you must bear in mind what it is all about when it comes to optimising the protection of the environment, noise protection and transport safety! Flexible speed devices, which are made possible by modern technical possibilities through transport-influenced systems – explicitly mentioned in this innovation of the IG air – represent an important contribution to environmental improvement, in particular to the improvement of air quality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you can be sure that it is much more comprehensible for every driver and therefore also more acceptable if the speed depends on the environmental measurement... – Passen [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Please, Mr Oellinger. Environmental measurements shall be carried out with the aid of transport influence plants. The speed heights are adjusted very specifically. The nature of the road load is also taken into account, as is the weather and possible traffic. Of course, it is important to avoid environmental pollution by paying attention to a certain traffic flow and avoiding congestion. That is why I do not understand your excitement if you are criticised by the opposition that, in the acute case, for the first three months of the respective head of state or state, actions can be taken and then, in consultation with the Minister of Transport, attempts to find good rules in the long term, such as the establishment of transport facilities, so that specific measures can be taken in each case and adapted to the external circumstances. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, this bill contains much more innovations, much more positive also in the area of reduction of dust dust, with now not only 10-mycrometer particles, but even much smaller ones, it is precisely those that often affect health much more. This is also to be read in this bill. But you did not say that about the opposition parties, because you do not want to talk about good in legal papers. Positive aspects can also be mentioned with regard to waste management, and with regard to the so-called noise maps for the preparation of action plans, data from IPPC industrial plants need to be passed on in the future in order to be able to work more effectively and efficiently in the area of noise control in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a high standard of environmental protection, and this innovation is certainly going in the right direction to preserve our good environment, but also to be able to force environmental protection even more strongly in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12657	Mrs Dr Moser spoke in favour of an actual correction. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12681	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! Mrs Achleitner has said that I would have said that Minister Gorbach is merely on shaving. I'm actually discerning and correcting: I have said that Mr Gorbach is at the rate of 160. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12709	The next speaker was Mrs Scharer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12732	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pröll, if you do not want to hear it, I would nevertheless like to repeat that it is unfortunate that you did not agree with this law with the countries. [[Abg. Wittauer: That makes him tired!]] On the part of the countries, it is possible to react quickly in affected areas. But it is now becoming more difficult, if not impossible, by this law. [[Abg. Wittauer: Where? Where?]] Of course, you will decide on this bill by the government groups – and you will not vote with the countries until then. Whether that's good is put in place. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Even if you don't want to hear: It is worrying that, in accordance with this bill, in the case of temporary restrictions by the national leaders, a veto right is granted to the Minister of Transport – that is in there, Mr. Colleague – by a speed limit on motorways and highways imposed by the countries only for three months; in addition, the Ministry of Transport will decide. [[Abg. Wittauer: Only three months from now!]] Please note: We believe that Minister Gorbach can implement his Tempo 160 project. You know exactly what the consequences are. Minister for the Environment, take back this possibility of circumvention in the law! [[Abg. Wittauer: If, then Parliament takes back a law, but not the Minister!]] Tempo limits are key measures to protect the health of the avians, and we are against increased pollution and noise. Example: The speed limitation on a part of the Tauern motorway, introduced at the beginning of April, reduced the nitrogen oxides by 8 percent compared to 2004. Tempo 160, however, means 27 percent more fuel consumption, an additional 30 000 tons per year of carbon dioxide pollution and, above all, a doubling of the risk of fatal traffic accidents. The Kyoto objective of which Austria has achieved by the year 2010 will not be achieved. Mr Pröll, do not hinder this achievement by additional restrictions on the countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12816	The next speaker was Mrs Machne. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12837	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the IG air and to the matter. [[Abg. Krainer: You are in the wrong party if you want to return to the matter!]] The IG-Air was adopted by Parliament in 1997 in accordance with EC directives. The current revision will also implement an EU directive, which will significantly improve the application of the IG air, as the Federal Minister has also done, and create greater legal certainty. In addition, the catalogue of measures will be extended for the countries. With the introduction of the limit values for fine dust, appropriate catalogues of measures have been issued by national leaders in recent years. In the future, there will be a dual responsibility of the state leaders and the Federal Minister, but only for motorways and highways. Especially in Tyrol and unfortunately also in Lienz, the fine dust load is often higher than the limit values. I think that the most effective method, the air pollution caused by traffic – and that is not all – will be the commissioning of the Brenner base tunnel. Yesterday the Council of Ministers decided on the Brenner Base Tunnel. 2008 is expected to be the beginning of the construction. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: And who pays him?]] Austria, Tyrol, the European Union and Italy. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: And what relief does he bring?]] The Italian and Austrian transport ministers have decided on this Brenner base tunnel. I think that is a day of joy not only for Tyrol but also for Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: But only when the truck traffic...!]] This will be a good contribution to health if the Road Costs Directive – I give you the right – is also adopted. In any case, I would like to thank our Federal Minister Pröll, but also Mr Gorbach, for the commitment and improvement of our quality of life. We agree with the amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12936	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e12957	Mr President. Minister! Appreciate Members of the House! I cannot understand the joy of Mrs Machne's colleague, after the Minister now obviously wants to enter the long line of ministers to take back the legislative proposals because they are illegal. [[Abg. No one!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Having pleasure is individual!]] That is also the reason why we are so vehemently opposed. Mr Pröll, you're surprised now. Didn't you take care of the committee? We have already announced in the Committee that, on the one hand, as regards “Tempo 160”, as regards the “Lex Gorbach”, there is probably no sign of the country’s arbitrariness, as Mr Gorbach mentioned it, and that there is no legal conformity as far as highways are concerned. This is where the speed on motorways and highways is regulated, for which the Minister is not at all entitled. [[Abg. Wittauer: He is not responsible for the motorways?]] This is a topic: Lex ‘Tempo 160’. The other topic is: “Lex Spielberg” – we have done that often enough. With this new, much worse IG air, a Lex Spielberg would no longer be possible, i.e. this project would have been realized – with all its hardening effects on the environment there. We know that there is already a huge burden on the population in Spielberg. The third part concerning illegality is that no preventive health protection is provided. This is a clear violation of the EU directive. In the event of the risk of exceeding the limit values, measures must be taken only after 24 months. This is a joke for the affected population, especially for the children affected! That is to say, we have at the time “Tempo 160” a breach of the possibilities that the Minister has at all. [[Abg. Wittauer: He can do that by decree today!]] At Lex Spielberg, we have an absolutely industrial-friendly and hostile new regulation, and we have a violation of the EU Directive in the field of preventive health protection. We have against it. Complaint from the EU Commission – this is also mentioned in our different opinion. And we find that the clean-up of the air must always be a higher-quality legal asset than the speed of travel on motorways and highways. However, this Minister of the Environment, namely Mr Pröll, does not do anything, on the contrary, he is here – this is particularly surprising for us in this case – to allow the BZÖ Minister and Vice-President a better starting point so that he can perhaps start a coalition again with the ÖVP, which, fortunately, will probably no longer be possible by himself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13054	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, tabled by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13116	The next speaker was Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13137	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! With the adoption of the Environmental Adjustment Act, we continue Austrian environmental policy in a very positive form. It has been mentioned many times here, and I quote today's SPÖ, the SPÖ press service, Mr Krainer, who believes that the Austrian government is setting its environmental policy to the abyss – or to hell, as you call it – that it does not take any action against the increased emissions of CO2 in the countries. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I can tell you – this should be clearly stated once; I do not know which countries you are comparing here: Austrian environmental policy is a success story. For example, I am thinking only of the fact that some 315 Austrian companies operate in this investment area. Today's decision-making also contributes to the fact that, for example, we now have an opportunity to count on investments made abroad, or installations that are just before the approval. Lower Austria and its environmental policy are an example of this. Lower-Austrian CO2 emissions from recent years have remained neutral compared to the comparative period that I will then call you, despite twice as high economic growth as in the euro area, despite the fact that we have the largest refinery on low-Austrian soil, and despite population growth. If you compare the city or country Vienna, you can read that the Federal Environment Agency recorded a CO2 emissions of plus 15 percent in the period 1999 to 2003. That's where we should stick to the truth! In conclusion: It is a comprehensive issue which is addressed here, and it cannot be the task of the federal government alone, it is also the task of the countries, the municipalities; we must act here at three levels. Our pioneering role in Lower Austria may be an example for you – and not the polemics you presented here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13182	The next speaker was Mrs Fleckl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13204	Federal Minister! High house! Immission Protection Act Air – Mr Rädler, I already give you the right to protect this law, but it once again protects only those who have already been pollutingly polluting in Austria and are still working, and not those who are affected, namely the people, the children, especially those who are environmentally effective. The protection is only for one client, and all the others are more burdened with it. Mr Bundesminister, this law, which you submitted to the National Council, is not just a consequence, but it is a blow to the face of those who suffer from fine dust pollution or other air pollution. I don't know if you were in Graz once, but You should talk to the children, to the people in Graz about how stressful it is for the people in this city – then you could not put such a law before them. At the beginning of the year, a support campaign for retrofitting particle filter catalysts began in Styria, a very useful and welcome measure. However, with your catalogue of exceptions, Mr. Federal Minister, people will be given the incentive to change, and those who have already done so will probably ask themselves: What's the whole thing for? – With your law, the steering effect unfortunately goes into the opposite direction, in a negative direction. The promotion of the Federal Railways is also a point. And if I think of your coalition partner, Mr. Vice-chanc Gorbach, who is a champion of the 160 km/h high-speed train, I have to say that you should be more committed to our federal railways and their high-performance trains, because that would be much better for the health of the population in Austria than what you have presented. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In summary, it is said to the law: too many exceptions – too many exceptions to proven air pollution! I'll tell you: Whoever has an environmental conscience will not agree to this law. – We have this conscience and will certainly not agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13265	The next speaker was Mr Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13286	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Fleckl, if you say that this Federal Government should be committed to the ÖBB, you should have slept for the last three years. [[Abg. Krainer: demolition of the ÖBB!]] This Federal Government has been working for the Austrian Federal Railways, has put them on a modern track and has invested so much in the public rail network in recent years as never before! Take Please be aware of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now on the subject of the Federal Law, which we are discussing here today, to the Immission Protection Act Air. The problem of fine dust is a very serious issue. And that is precisely because this is an issue that the Federal Government, the countries, the municipalities and also the citizens are taking the right action and taking the right steps. Because it was said here that not only the federal government but also the countries are taking action: Yeah, that's right, but it's not a church tower memory! When I take the Vienna city policy, which has issued a ban on trucks older than 1992, so that all trucks that drive from south to north can not pass through Vienna, but over Lower Austria, I have to say that is not right either. [[Abg. Krainer: This is still allowed!]] I think that this federal law is the right measure and that the environmental councils will also coordinate well on this issue. This will be an example of where the federal government and countries have worked together for the benefit of the population and also for the benefit of the children – where the Greens have acted with a Polish example here today, but also for the benefit of the children! – take the right measures and continue to guarantee successful environmental policy. [[Abg. Krainer: Read the law, this is still possible!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13369	The next speaker was Mrs Trunk.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13396	If I didn't just have 2 minutes, dear Jan Krainer, I could do it, but I can only reduce my statements on what's going on here. Mr Umweltminister, you spoke about negotiations with environmental stakeholders, negotiations which, however, did not take place until 25 June. It will be held in November. I think it would be good for you not to speak here of an agreement by the countries, because there are 100 percent – 100 percent! – Rejection and opposition of the countries to your regulation. [[Abg. Wittauer: There are no objections!]] That's the truth you can't dispute either. Federal Minister! If you would talk to environmental experts, city councillors and city councillors who have been trying to reduce dust for years – for example, the Carinthian Environment Councillor Reinhart Rohr, for example, the Klagenfurt city councillor Maria-Luise Mathiaschitz, would not talk about them, but would talk to them – then you would know what measures to take. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] For example, in the Klagenfurt crisis and problem region – which will soon also include Wolfsberg in the measures – local and regional politicians are working very hard under the EU Directive, with the help of the EU, but with disabilities and without means of the federal government. For Carinthia, for example, your actions you take mean more budget needs of € 1.3 million – € 1.3 million! These measures are to be adopted. Minister! Tell the countries and municipalities where to get the money! – This would be an offensive and helpful federal contribution to the reduction of dust dust. [[Abg. Wittauer: Where shall the covenant take the money?]] By the way, to the colleagues of BZÖ/FPÖ and to the fact that the heads of state are actually demise on this issue, Sigmund Freud is speaking out of you, that is undisputed. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The country's main women too!]] The fact is, however, that national leaders and national leaders are being restricted, where the federal government has other interests. I regret this in the sense of those people who will not be victims of these health and environmental measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13471	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13493	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The greens who are no longer present today have in very active... [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Yes!]] [[Further calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Krainer: Four are it!]] The last two ladies of the Greens today asked in a very actionistic way, as we are used to, with plastic dolls in their hands: Is this the future of our children, Mr. Minister? – No, that is not the future of our children, ladies and gentlemen, because the responsibility for the future of our children is not in the hands of the Greens! [[Abg. Krainer: The coalition partner is even worse represented, Mr Hornek!]] The responsibility for future environmental policy lies in strong hands, in the strong hands of a responsible father, our Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is interesting with the Greens and their actionism – you should sharpen your approach! –: They have plastic children, weigh them in the arms, put them into a plastic sack after use, and push them like a problem under the table. – That way you will never solve problems, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wittauer.]] Hold to a procedure that makes sense! Discuss the subject of law, and you will see that this is a bill which constitutes a comprehensive change in those areas that are necessary for the future in the environmental field, which brings to your attention and which means the ideal procedure in this context. – Thank you for your valued attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13569	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13590	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The present draft legislation, also called the environmental law adaptation law, has some quite acceptable but also some absolutely unacceptable parts. Although some of these innovations had found our approval, we cannot, for example, contribute to the absolute rejection of the IG air. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a fact – even if you don't want to hear that –: The share of agriculture in the total load of air is about 21 percent, the share of truck transport is about 14 percent, and the total agricultural and freight sector is completely spared by this government template. The fine dust in the air has also boosted a lot of dust here in Parliament, and this IG-air novelle has serious shortcomings in the fight against fine dust and will also be rejected by the countries – and this cannot often be emphasized enough, Mr Minister. I wonder why this also rejects the EIA countries if the law is anyway as great as you want to sell us here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you: What do you really want to do in the future to fight the fine dust load to reduce the fine dust load? – I ask: What do you want to do, and when do you really do something? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13633	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13654	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! No one is actually serving with polemics. That is why I am trying to contribute to the Immissions Protection Act with some facts and data. As has been shown by numerous studies, PM10's main sources of dust are transport, house fire and industry. A recent study by the Technical University of Vienna shows that only 10 percent of diesel passenger cars are involved. Two thirds of total particulate emissions go to the account of industry and house fire. Of the approximately 29 tonnes of particles blown into the air each year, 6 000 tonnes are spent on road transport. These 6 000 tonnes each account for half of the cars and trucks. In order to significantly reduce the fine dust load, it is therefore necessary to reduce the emissions of the contaminants. The Environmental Adjustment Act therefore empowers the national leaders to take measures against dust pollution in the acute case – as well as there and there. However, restrictions on transport must be approved after three months by the competent minister, who, with a change of law and with the Environmental Adjustment Act, also sets the target values for heavy metals – as the Minister has already said – two years earlier than the EU provides. In conclusion: As a car entrepreneur, I am very happy about the colleague Moser's statement that she does not yet call Tempo 160 a shaving.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13692	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13715	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Wittauer has already stressed today that IG-Air is a milestone. And the Federal Minister has said that in the future the gas masks can be taken away from the children again. But, on the other hand, I think, it is precisely this debate today, after the European Court of Justice has declared the sectoral ban on the Inntal motorway in Tyrol illegal, but on the other hand it has also recognised that it is justified for environmental reasons. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It fits every day!]] Ladies and gentlemen in the House! This is a schizophrenic policy both in this House and within the EU. On the one hand, it is very well said that the IG air should be in line with the protection of the environment, but on the other hand, measures taken by a country are rejected, according to the European Court of Justice, because of disproportionateness in the implementation of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! What to do You or what are you doing in the EU against the disproportionately increasing pollution caused by dust and noise and against environmental pollution at all? What to do You're against the disproportionately rising fine dust load? What to do Are you fighting the daily increasing health threat to the population? Ladies and gentlemen! Transit increases daily, especially through Tyrol. And now, as Switzerland is sending itself to increase its heavy traffic charges again – in 2003 there were 205 Swiss francs, since 2005 there are 290 Swiss francs, from 2008 onwards there will be 325 Swiss francs. What do you think the European transit is moving to? – It flows through Austria, it flows through Tyrol, and thus also burdens the Tyrolean population. There would be something to do here to prevent the next transit debacle from the beginning and to protect the population from this health burden.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13750	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13771	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the environmental legislation adaptation law here today, and it is really a very interesting discussion. My colleague Steindl has already mentioned it, and because I am looking into the ranks of the Greens: Mrs Moser, after having been firmly weathered at tempo 160 before, actually comes out of here and says literally in an actual correction: I didn't say that Federal Minister Gorbach is for shaving. I just said that Federal Minister Gorbach is at the rate of 160. – That means in German: Tempo 160 is not a shaving. This is very remarkable, especially because this statement comes from the mouth of a green person. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] By the way, a lot is being discussed today about the problems of fine dust. I already have to reject, with all the determination, that agriculture is the main cause. Above all, from the Socialists, Mr Krainer, this statement comes very often. We all wish for a reasonable arrangement. the fine dust, but I note: Farmers deal responsibly with nature and are certainly not the main cause. I am also pleased that it has succeeded in stating in a committee that, in addition to the proportionality of the measures to be taken, it is particularly important to consider whether and to what extent this activity has contributed to the crossing of the limit values, that the crossing on pastures and the recycling by burning constitutes a proper agricultural management according to the Federal Air Re Content Act and so on. Among other things, the provisions of the Cross Compliance must be observed. I believe that this law, which we are discussing today, is a good law and should be passed in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13816	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13838	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! My previous speaker has now shown a very special chuzpe. They sit with a party in the Federal Government, which has been presupposing for years for tempo 160 in Austria, which does not really care about the health of the children, which apparently means that tempo 160 is super on motorways and ignores the risk situation completely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] They know that we, the Greens, have been massively opposed to this measure being implemented for years. You should come at your own door before you go down there and create a picture that is completely beyond. That's incredible!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13868	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, my colleague, please correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13892	Mr Franz Eßlhat just meant, the socialist..., so the Socialist Group would claim that agriculture in Austria would be the biggest cause of fine dust. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: “Socialist” already fits!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] - That's not true! We never said that! We have just said that agriculture is one of the five major issuers, but far from being a major cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13949	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e13971	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since a colleague from the EIAs is again making claims which do not vote, I would like to say once again: Mrs Achleitner has submitted a comment to me – yes, sure! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: No, she didn't!]] Read the Minutes, my colleague. That's it. Read this! And I've made that claim right. I personally represent the opinion when I drive on the motorway 160 km/h, then I race. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That you drive 160! You can't do that!]] I am not saying that Mr Gorbach is a shaver or that he is consciously provoking this shaving. [[Abg. Neudeck: Colleague, with the bicycle without airbag – an insanity!]] Mr Scheuch! You need to read this exactly in the minutes. I refuse to make the most of this assumption, which comes from the ÖVP, and I say once again: I personally describe Tempo 160 as shaving and nothing else!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14037	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1176 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Glavischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the repair of the retroactive fine dust law and on a clear reduction in the health risk of fine dust. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:51:17]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1115 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Law on the Trade in Species (1177, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14110	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. The first speaker was Mr. Ing. Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14134	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In a globalized world, of course, not only goods of all kinds are traded and shipped, but also endangered and wild-living animals and plants are transported or sold to all countries. In order to ensure the protection of endangered species of animals and plants, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species was adopted in 1973. Signature made. This Convention has been implemented in the European Union since 1984 under uniform rules. In 1997, the European Union adopted strict trade rules for the protection of wild species of animals and plants. In concrete terms, Article 8 of Regulation 338/1997 provides that purchase, offer for sale, purchase for commercial purposes, display and use for commercial purposes, sale, storage, offer or transport for the sale of certain animals and plants are prohibited. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. High house! I therefore consider this novel to be extremely important, as it makes the conditions for transport and trade of endangered species clearer and stricter than before. In addition, there is the positive side effect of preventing any transmission of disease and disease, such as the most recently discussed avian influenza. However, I also remember, for example, that viruses of various species of monkeys in Central Africa have already been transmitted to a number of dangerous diseases. The amendment provides for precise labelling methods to be laid down in the way of the regulation. With regard to labelling methods, consideration should be given to the latest biological and veterinary research and should also be given to ensuring that labelling represents the lowest possible intervention in the welfare of the species. The best possible medical care is also ensured by the identification by a veterinarian or a person with particular authorisation. The labelling protocol shall also provide for the verifiability of proper labelling. The data contained in the labelling protocol shall be included in the central register in the case of an application for authorisation, so that in the case of an animal being diagnosed with a disease, one can also understand the route and thus draw conclusions on any diseases or diseases in the country of origin and can also take appropriate steps. However, I think that paragraph 5 of Section 12 of this amendment is particularly important to me, which extends the enforcement competence of the customs authorities and customs authorities. In future, customs authorities will not only be transferred to control imports and exports of these exotic species, but also to monitor the ban on trade in accordance with Article 9 of the EU Regulation. The knowledge of these competent persons and their many years of experience in this field can be used in this way. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This novel means more protection for endangered animals, but also indirectly for humans. I am therefore pleased that this law will receive the approval of all political groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14193	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14214	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been decided by a majority of the The law once again showed that Minister of Agriculture Pröll really works for agriculture and unfortunately God's environment is losing sight of it again and again. To this draft, to the Art Trade Act, a few words: This is a accompanying measure towards a regulation of the European Union. It is self-evident that EU regulations must be complied with, but must not only be complied with, but must also be monitored accordingly. This Regulation should implement the Washington Convention on the Protection of Species, which effectively protects species of wild fauna and flora by very strict provisions. This Convention has now acceded to around 150 States. There are 8,000 species of animals and about 40 000 species of plants that should be protected and, I hope, they are protected effectively. This list shall be updated every two years by the Contracting States, i.e. updated. The Federal Government is responsible for monitoring – and that has already been mentioned by my previous speaker. We also believe that it makes sense for the customs authorities to be entrusted with it. As regards customs controls, the question of permitted marketing is very often raised, and we therefore feel that the customs authorities are entrusted with monitoring and enforcement. This also does not restrict the competence of the district authorities. As in the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, we shall also vote in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14259	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14281	Mr President. Minister! High house! Of course, we protect wild species of animals and plants. It is of course that we implement the toughest provisions not only at the legal level, but also that we use all the means to enable this monitoring. However, despite all of this, I would like to point out the following: Last week, whaling started again, and everyone knows that states like Japan, Iceland and Norway do not comply with the guidelines. I believe that it is also our task not only to pass laws, but to draw attention to those states that violate the rule, namely, with “methods” which are difficult to accept. I also ask Parliament to continue to draw our attention, where possible, to the fact that there will be a clear violation of the Convention on the Protection of Species, otherwise this agreement will be waived. By the way, I am glad that we have a four-party rule and that we also implement it today. I hope that, when further provisions come back, we will act immediately and quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14314	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14337	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I agree with my previous speaker that it is important not only to decide on species conservation agreements, but above all to control them, and that it is important not only to restrict itself to legal decisions, but also in the international context, for example, to call on countries operating whale fishing to refrain from doing so. However, I also believe that it is important not to close your eyes in front of your own door when questionable things occur in connection with endangered animal species. I'm playing elephants in Schönbrunn now. I think we can be relatively sure that Schönbrunn has improved and made as much as possible within the framework of its difficult spatial conditions. Nevertheless, it must be asked whether certain species of animals can find sufficient space and appropriate conditions of posture in a spatially narrowed zoo as in Schönbrunn, especially large animals with great space requirements such as elephants. It is also necessary to ask whether the methods of handling these animals are still modern. Last week, a video that shows how a baby elephant in Schönbrunn is “dressed” under quotation marks, namely, with very hard methods, with unjustified hardness, with no educational beatings on the head, and you really wonder what century this training method is from. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] You wonder why not also in Austria at the Schönbrunn Zoo as they are in other zoos: that you no longer work in direct contact with the elephants, but in a protected contact or even without direct interaction. But what you must not allow is that under the cover of species protection and the necessary dressage is operated in a zoo animal torture. With this in mind, I would like to ask everyone in this House to use their contacts to ensure that we use modern attitude and training methods in Schönbrunn and get out of the elephant holding in zoos in the medium term.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14378	I am now interrupting the debate on item 7 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:02:02]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Health and Women on 'Five years of black and blue/orange: Five years without women’s policy’ (3611/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14408	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 3611/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14805	I give the floor to Mrs Heinisch-Hosek as a questioner on the grounds of the urgent question. Speech time: 20 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14833	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Actually, I wanted...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14848	I should like to ask colleagues to stop the murmuring and listen to the speaker. This also applies to the upper corner of freedom. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e14866	In fact, we wanted to put this urgent question last time by the Socialists and Socialists. We believe that urgent requests and urgent requests are really justified only if fire is on the roof on a subject. In addition, they are more of a means of opposition. Last time you asked yourself about your – not very successful – economic policy and thus prevented us from talking urgently about women's policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: But today we would be on it, Mrs Colleague!]] Today, however, we can do this and ask the Minister why she has not been doing a women's policy for five years. Although she has only been a Minister of Women since 2002, she has been... Since 2003, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Since 2003!]] But still: You've been in politics for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree that women's policy must and must be cross-cutting policy. That means – and you know that as well as I do – that every political issue is at the same time also a women's policy issue and that every policy measure is at the same time a measure that affects women. Women represent 52 percent of the population, and all the affected areas, Mrs. Federal Minister, are going to you too – and especially you as Minister of Women! - Something to do. I think it is a women's minister's task to show how role-klical things are in this society, it is the women's minister's task to show how discrimination against women can be made aware of, and it is primarily the task of women's minister to ensure that framework conditions are created that allow women to develop freely, regardless of any role allocations, and to shape their lives as they wish. There has now been no women's policy in this country for five years. In 2000, the Ministry of Women was abolished. That was one of the very first measures. We then had a male women's minister, who set up a men's department, and after his unhappiness as a woman's minister, he was replaced by you, Mrs Federal Minister. The fact that he was replaced has not led to the improvement of the life situation of women. On the contrary: The situation of women has changed, which has changed to a bad one, and I am going to talk about it in a moment. Although there are statistics and investigations and there is no response from the EU Commission and other calls – WEF and so on – there was no response from the Minister of Women. With this in mind, the question, Mrs Bundesminister: Why Make You're not a women's policy? Are you not interested in women's concerns? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Every political measure is also woman-relevant!]] Are you not interested in women's circumstances? Could it be that you are overrepresenting the wishes and needs of women, Mrs. Women's Minister? Do you ever notice in which different worlds of life women live and have to live and what women have to do with? Are you often out with the women, Mrs. Women's Minister? Do you know under what circumstances women are mastering their lives? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: With the people!]] I mean, Outside of the people, not to be removed somewhere at festivals and celebrations, but outside in women's counsel stations, in kindergartens and wherever women live, for example, in businesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I do not know, or at least I do not remember, whether you have made an event or any statement this year in the year of commemoration, which is devoted to the end, as you have, for example, honoured the reconstruction of this country, which has mainly been done by women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I can't remember anything! But I remember very well your woman-of-wreck proposal, which unfortunately has become a law in an inappropriate form. My dear! Mrs Frauenminister! In this context, you have not used yourself to pay attention to women who had not born children in such a difficult time, for there were also women who could not have children who were very, very young women themselves and who, for example, had to care for their siblings. We have succeeded in publishing a book. From this you can learn, Mrs. Colleague, that you can take something with you that, unlike you, we have also made our contribution to reconstruction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That was just a small example. Of course. You called me: To work for women, that is to interfere. - Yes! This means interfering in all possible cross-sectionalities, in all possible areas. But: You're not interfering! We do not know anything about it at all, otherwise the situation of women would have improved! However, the opposite is the case. In any event, this interference must take place, and the Minister of Women should tell us, please, what laws and what measures have taken to improve the situation of women in this country over the last five years! Or is the opposite the case? – I claim, and we know: The opposite is the case. Let us look at the individual areas, let us first look at a vitally important area, namely education! Education begins with the youngest, education begins in the preschool field, no question. No kindergarten is a storage place, every baby care facility is an educational establishment. Sexual pedagogy: I have never heard a statement from the Minister for Women and I do not know how much she is talking to the Minister for Education. They always praise themselves as the six ministers in the ranks of the members of the government. This is not half of the government, but only one third, because of course we have to count the Secretary of State. How many times do you talk to your female ministers? How often do you interfere when it comes to preschool education for the little ones? What about the check that the children or, better said, the parents get into their hands, which they cannot redeem? – My colleague, Binder-Maier, will address this. What about the school packages? Where did you get involved, Mrs. Federal Minister? Now we have the School Package II immediately before decision. Where did you rehearse the girl-related things? I didn't hear anything about it in the preliminary discussions! Education does not stop with the end of compulsory schooling, that is not true! But one measure after another has been adopted, for example, that training for women is becoming increasingly difficult and impossible. You abolished education. Your colleague Bartenstein, whom I will then come to speak to, has abolished this educational course after the karenz period. Education, in fact, means lifelong learning to enable further training, but that is not your concern. It is not just about PISA and the results of all these studies. There have already been two investigations that you as a woman's minister should have let go of it. The field of dual vocational training is also within your competence. Girls need to have opportunities to establish themselves in other areas too! – What to do You want girls to get into technical professions? How do you refer this to the public, and how do you work with the Minister of Education? To the miscarriage of the universities, Mr. Muttonen will still come to speak, first of all it is said: The figures relating to female teachers at universities are really not intoxicating. I am not talking about the very, very difficult situation of the female students when they are still working alongside them – and that is what almost all students do – and if they perhaps still raise children. They don't have it easy because they may lose whole semester when they've lost a place in a seminar. That is obviously not your concern! Finally, if women have a job, they have not yet been told that they can live on it. Your colleague Haubner's poverty report shows that poverty increased in 2003 and 2004, but especially in women's poverty. – It is a shame for this country that half a million women live on the poverty line! The situation for women who work and still live on the poverty line is really difficult. I don't know if you've interfered. Did you talk to the Minister of Labour? Where is the cross-sectional policy of the Minister for Women? Have you requested measures? I have the five-point programme on women's employment here. ==References====External links== Not included in the employment summit in May. There was then an own women's employment summit, that is, you've probably made women's employment on your topic and then you've also issued a paper, but first you've published a press paper and then you're doing something or not, but these are two pairs of shoes! What is included in these five points? – They want to force women-related measures in the labour market service. They want to raise awareness in the career choice of young women – I mentioned earlier. They want to address qualification measures for vulnerable groups. They want to force the health professions. The last point is that one of the basic prerequisites for women being able to live the reconciliation of work and family is that the framework conditions for reconciliation between family and work are being improved, and you say that you want to do so. From paper to implementation, however, it is a long way that you, I believe, are not interested. However, we have asked questions today, and I do not think it would be good, Mrs Federal Minister, that, as you have said in the written answer to me, you do not actually feel responsible for questions 1 to 9. A woman minister should be interested in all areas – I quote your words “Women’s policy is cross-sectional policy” – and I therefore wish you to respond to these important issues of labour market policy today and do not remain guilty to us. Next area: The prerequisite for women to be able to live by what they deserve is that they get full-time jobs. It does nothing if Mr Bartenstein says that the rate of female employment has increased if it has increased because women are employed in atypical and precarious employment conditions and, above all, in part-time working conditions, in which they earn little, and if there are only a few sectors where you get such jobs. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] You know that, colleague: In the service sector, in the tourism sector and in the hospitality sector, opening hours or working hours for women make it impossible for them to accommodate their children somewhere. I mean, it's very important if two men sit together and deal with it now. We have said very often – you know that – that we need good conditions for the compatibility of work and family and for women who have born children and want to get back into work. We didn't listen. Now the Labour Chamber President and the President of the Industrial Union are gathering together, all the newspapers are full of it, and demand exactly the children's money-plus model of the SPÖ women. They demand exactly the accompanying circumstances that women need to be able to reconcile children and occupations. I do not know, Mrs Federal Minister, how you create these framework conditions and how you interfere and talk to Mr Haubner about how to create more childcare places. The two gentlemen mentioned have also found that it is 100 000 and not 18 000, as you once said. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] This is because you have produced average districts and made wild calculations that were not really serious. Let's go to a very large area that makes women at risk of poverty: It was the 2003 pension reform – there you were already the Minister of Women – and it was the 2004 pension harmonisation, which by far does not legislate what women lose through the 40-year calculation. The increase in expectable child rearing times and also the improvements in retirement time for women do not make this by far, for if women, for example, work part-time for three years, they have exhausted it. You know that, too. However, they also know equally well that women usually don't work for three years in part-time, but in these poorly paid, less qualified jobs ten years, 12 years or 15 years remain dependent. There is already the question: How should a woman come to an existential pension if she can no longer count the best 15 years together? We are also in charge, but the SPÖ has always said: We need to try and look for an independent pension for women, and to assess child rearing times in such a way that women also come to a "decent" pension from which they can live. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Your own area is health, and I say to you, Mrs Federal Minister: The health sector is poorly managed. They have just brought together little in this area! You are forcing the issues of women and health, and I am asking myself, in connection with the forthcoming EU Presidency, how you will address this during our presidency accordingly. I acknowledge that it is important to talk about forced marriage, honorous murder, genital mutilation, trafficking in human beings, women and children. That's important. But let's not forget the women in Austria! Mrs. Federal Minister! What's going to be Do you, for example, do this half-year in order to ensure – and Commissioner Špidla has also asked us – that the income shears, which are particularly open in Austria, can be closed a little more? Špidla expects the EU Presidency – he has articulated this in a press interview – to take measures, especially taken by the Minister of Women, that this income scrap will be closed a little more or less apart. In this regard, we are the last person in the EU, and we are far from there worldwide, and I think that this is not really worthy of a women's policy in this country. I also think that your advisory office or institution for migrants in your own ministry could have long been able to start their work – we are waiting – to work for the EU Presidency, for example. In addition, we know that more women with a migrant background would seek and need help, but we don't get any help because it's not certain that there are enough women's advisory services. You have let some close, Mrs. Federal Minister, and some fight with survival. When did you interfere, Mrs Federal Minister, when the asylum law and the foreign law package were adopted? – We have also tried to negotiate women-related issues. Unfortunately, you did not succeed because you prevented that. Why didn't you work to ensure that women get their own residence permit immediately, that women receive a work permit and that women have the opportunity to separate from their often violent men and to stand on their own feet themselves? – On the field of violence: Although there are nine intervention agencies, there are 37,000 directions since the law on protection against violence. There are hardly any more staff who can also implement this law! Finally, I call a Council of Ministers speech by you, Mrs Bundesminister, on the topic of gender mainstreaming. You confess yourself in a Council of Ministers' lecture on equality policy, you confess that all ministries, all the departments, undertake to act afterwards. This means, first of all, formulating gender equality and second, designing, implementing and implementing projects that benefit both men and women. We know from the group in the Ministry of Finance that fiscal policy and tax policy definitely disadvantage women. There's black on white. When did you join the Minister of Finance Grasser for this, when will you talk to him about why 1.6 million women do not benefit from this tax reform, why only some large companies benefit from it, and why especially self-employed women who really do not deserve much – every third company in Austria is founded by a woman – because they are not considered. The fact that the negative tax for women is at least doubled would be an important requirement for women to be able to improve their living conditions with this small tax credit. If we look at your own place of business, Mrs. Federal Minister, we need to remind you of your duties again and again. There was the Käthe lighter price. We really remembered you for years! You've given him back this year, but you just haven't taken him important for a few years. There was a ten-year report on women in 1975, 1985 and 1995, an important scientific document. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] We have November now, and we haven't heard at all that you're going to give a women's report this year. I think you simply don't take women's policy important enough, and I hope you will answer our questions today in the sense of the Austrian women.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15014	To answer the urgent question, Mrs Bundesminister für Gesundheit und Frauen Maria Rauch-Kallat spoke. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15041	Mr President. High house! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, if I may make your present comments Let the revision happen and read the explanation of your urgent question, I ask myself: Which world and in which country do you actually live in? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: She lives in Vienna!]] I would think it was a continuation of the pity to act, because what we adopted in 2000 were 30 years of social-democratic women's policy or the result of 30 years of social-democratic women's policy. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I would like to give you the answers to your questions, in case you let me answer, but you know: I have only 20 minutes of speaking time, so I have to hurry to give it to you. I'm going out as you call it. I don't feel inside, but I live in Austria, I live in this world, and I talk to a lot of women in Austria, whether in women's counsel stations or in women's services, whether it be in the establishments, in schools and in kindergartens or also at many events, not only in those we do from the ministry, but also in many events that other women's organizations hold, and I am constantly talking to the women. I experience over and over again that I wonder if you say you haven't heard anything, whether you – it's not for me to judge about hearing – don't want to hear or don't want to see and if you don't consciously skip. There is a lot of what we have done in these last three years, which has contributed significantly to the improvement of the situation of women in this country. If you complain that we wouldn't have done anything for the “wrong women” this year, I'll tell you: We have a big event on 1st. October, and I was only back on Saturday at an event on this subject, and we created, above all, a money for “wrong women” who were more than ever done by a social democratic government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you complain, actually take emancipation and equality seriously, and if you want to give these benefits to women who have not raised children at that time, you should also give them to the men who have built the country at that time. I think we should talk about it. Either we take equality seriously or not. Women have a correspondingly higher burden due to the education of their children and the uneven distribution of family work and work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With regard to women's employment and women's unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say, Mr Heinisch-Hosek: Never before in this Second Republic have so many women been in employment as now. Never before were women so well trained, and women's unemployment – perhaps looking She once looked at the statistics – just up to 1999 was always higher than male unemployment. What a coincidence since the year 2000 is that women's unemployment is lower than men's unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] What do you think, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek? - Maybe you can look at that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] They forget, honourable Member, that due to the uneven distribution of family work among men and women, many women want part-time employment so that they can cope with their everyday lives half-way. But I am very much in favour, if we manage to actually give these 50 percent of family work to fathers and men, that we also have the corresponding employment. You also need to understand what you really want! In the women's desire, which you have fully supported, you have demanded the right to part-time, and now you complain in your request that there is obviously too much part-time. [[Call the SPÖ:Two pair of shoes!]] You already have to decide what you want, but this corresponds to the SPÖ zigzag course also in other questions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as women's income is concerned, you may also be looking at the statistics, as follows: Since 2002 – oh miracle! – with regard to the 40-hour equivalent, income shears are falling from 23 percent to 21.6 percent. When I look at a structural indicator, the gender pay gap, I say: Source is not SPÖ but Eurostat – I see that Austria has a 22 percent wage difference in 1995 – that is the first number from Austria – and 20 percent in 1996; 22 percent in 1997; 21 percent in 1998; 21 percent in 1999; 20 percent in 2000; 20 percent in 2001; and 17 percent in 2003. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Look! Look!]] In the period from 1995 to 2000 – this is what you have to expect, until 2000, until the 3rd. February, you were in the government – you have not managed to bring about a change, only from 22 to 20 percent. We made it to 17 percent from 2001 to 2003. – The source is Eurostat; I would like to make it available to you. Mrs Colleague, I would now like to call you a lot of measures that we have taken over the last three years, but then I do not come to answer your questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] But I am willing to send you this in writing. It just needs a little bit of good will, perhaps a look at the website of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women; there you can find some. But now to answer your questions: I come to Question No 1, by Women's Unemployment and by the results of the Round Table on Women's Employment. – By the way, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, perhaps you have overlooked: I was on the 1st. May, I'm on the front. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. Stadlbauer: They're there, but they're not saying anything!]] As far as I know, I didn't sit far away from you. ==References== In June the Ministry of Women also made its own round table “Women’s Employment” and prepared measures there that we are currently implementing. A woman-specific need survey of the AMS clients resulting from this event was already completed at the end of September. The evaluation is also complete. The director of the labour market service will explain these results to me next week as part of the meeting of the managing directors of the women's service posts. Building on the results, all opportunities for women-specific training of the consultants as well as the possibility of providing women-specific advice in initial care within the framework of a woman switch will be considered and weighed up with the benefits of an even greater integration of women-specific advice into existing advisory structures. On Question 2, the establishment of the “Women’s Switch. ” I have already given an opinion on this. There is in the meantime a special ombudsman for the complaints of female clients or such an institution is being created. In addition, special measures are continued for re-privileged persons. Question 3: “Is there already instructions from your ministry to the AMS to further expand existing women’s offers and which are these?” – Yes, the labour market service has been commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour to implement the employment package, which includes, among other things, the task of providing additional qualification measures for more than 20,000 women in the main working age or promoting the start of employment. Training in the health and care sector with the perspective of sustainable careers and incomes is primarily aimed at women. For young women not only additional apprenticeships are provided, but also specific job-market-related training. Overall, funding for women's labour market policies will reach a share of around 54 percent in 2006, with a share of women in all the unemployed of around 43 percent. So there is a clear preference for women in this area. Question 4: In the course of the contract award by the labour market service, women's specific requirements, such as child care, mobility assistance, situation and succession of training periods and similar, are explicitly specified and are mandatory for institutions applying for these contracts. In addition, as regards long-term unemployment, I can say – I refer to the data of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour – that: Compared to the now five-year red-green government in Germany, long-term unemployment is much lower in us and, above all, the remedial work is much faster than in our neighbouring country. Question 5: “How concrete is Gender Mainstreaming implemented in your ministry as a top-down strategy?” I can provide you with a whole booklet. But I can tell you that this is a very special concern to me. We have implemented this since 2000. – In 1995, this was a requirement of the European Union. Five years the Social Democratic Women's Ministers and the Social Democratic Government have not managed to implement Gender Mainstreaming! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It was the government of ÖVP/FPÖ that presented a Council of Ministers lecture on gender mainstreaming in 2000. – These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Let's stay with you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since then, this has been consistently enforced. There were three Council of Ministers lectures on Gender Mainstreaming. In all Ministries, the corresponding projects are supported. You've just been given a report. There are 121 projects to put in place measures to promote women. These projects represent an equivalent of € 2 billion. On question 6: Of course, there are efforts to force the resurgence of the primary school. The target group is mainly those who are threatened by their professional and social integration, who are job-seeking, lack formal training, a migration background and are often disadvantaged. In this respect, professional knowledge and formal completion of the primary school-externist examination are promoted. The communication of key issues such as personal education, social training, everyday skills, professional orientation and support for labour market integration is also encouraged. The duration is about one year. Question 7: “What is your programme for the enhanced language and integration courses for migrants? ...” May I also hold on to this: There were 30 years of socialist women's ministers, or: 22 years old, first Secretary of State, then ministers: There was not even a single member of the ministry who has dealt with migration issues, although integration is not a new matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Another example of missing SPÖ integration policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's how it looks!]] It was one of my first measures, Mrs Colleague, that we set up our own service for women: A department that also deals with integration issues. We are in close contact with associations with the aim of consulting and integrating migrants, and of course these are also supported by my department. You know, at least you mentioned this praisefully, that we are dealing with the area of traditional violence, as you are found in particular in the field of migrants: Genital mutilation, forced marriage, homicide. This is also a result of this cooperation. Question 8: In the light of the still pending decision on the European financial framework from 2007 onwards and the allocation of the Structural Funds in Austria, the continuation of the funding for labour market policy is to be seen and depended on. Of course, it will have to be taken into account in the design of the budgets from 2007 onwards. On the question 9: I see the offer of the combination wage in the context of the fact that for women seeking part-time employment, a corresponding offer can be made. In fact, in this case, it is not possible to speak of a disadvantage of women, but of an improvement in the way they have more money at their disposal. Of course, we will also take gender aspects into account when evaluating this model. Question 10: The guidelines of the AMS are, of course, formulated in accordance with the gender-neutral principle, and the results are also evaluated accordingly. On the question 11: Of course, we are planning measures to reduce gender differences in income. We know that we have three areas on which the gender difference in income is based: the rise in work, the under-employment and the rise in work. Our actions take place precisely in these three areas. I should like to mention some of them in the short term: the guide ‘Equal pay for equal and equivalent work’, ‘Discrimination-free labour evaluation and organisation’ and ‘Qualified part-time employment’, the promotion of women-specific projects by the Federal Ministry of Health and Women, the improvement of the equal treatment law and, of course, the qualifying opportunities, especially for women in technical professions, together with other institutions, such as the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education, but also employment issues, in particular with regard to job interruption and the rise in work. This is also a matter of increasing Fathers' activity. They are making fun of the Ministry's campaign, but it must be clear to us: Equality in the field of work will only occur if there is an equal division of work, a “fair share” in which there is family and child labour. This is simply what everyone in this country is calling for! And to do that, there is still a lot to raise awareness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] As far as women's careers are concerned, the business mentoring and mentoring in the ministries are of course examples. I know you keep telling me you're not interested. These are things you just don't want to hear! On the question of 12 emergency aid. First of all, I should like to point out that in recent years, women have experienced a significant improvement in this field, in contrast to the times with Social Democratic Labour Ministers. For the first time, if, on the basis of the partner's income, the woman has no right to provide fictitious emergency aid to the pension scheme, it will benefit women, especially in old age. For times when emergency aid has been received, 92 percent of unemployment benefit is also used as the basis for the calculation basis. On the question 13: For me, the taxing of costs for childcare facilities would be so important – if, as far as possible, for all, but above all for the domestic care purchased – because, in this area, one could also create jobs from a genuinely existing grey labour market and thus contribute to the re-establishment of employment mainly by women. This does not concern the child girl for the rich, but you know very well that these are employees, teachers and teachers et cetera, who need such a thing, women and men with care obligations from the middle class. That is absolutely not the case with the rich. Question No 14, opening hours. Well known – you know that – is the competence for the establishment and maintenance of childcare facilities in the countries and communities. However, on the part of the Federal Government, measures are still being put in place for greater demand orientation in the supply. It has invited the competent Minister of State Haubner, together with Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer and me to the Childcare Summit, to the respective Councils of State, which, by the way, told us that they can't fill their kindergartens at all. And there is one of the results that Upper Austria has, among other things, changed its national laws and now opened the kindergartens for children from two years old. By the way, I can also say: This is a measure that is both child-friendly and contributes to the fact that the places could be occupied at all, because some kindergartens would otherwise have to be locked up, which is certainly not in our sense. Countries and municipalities have around €500 million annually. There is additional money from the Federal Government for flexible and innovative childcare projects, each €700 000 for 2005 and 2006. Question 15: Afternoon and holiday services are in themselves also matters of the countries and communities. The Federal Minister Gehrer promised to provide 10,000 additional places for the afternoon care immediately after the Round Table “Childcare”. On the question 16: I find the proposal by industrial associations and the Chamber of Labour interesting, it is also to be welcomed in principle. I think that we should work very much on this issue, but that is also a matter of actually sharing work. What do you think? Satisfaction for childcare allowance, i.e. questions 17, 18, reached, so you know that the child care allowance is in evaluation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stadlbauer.]] The competent Federal Minister is willing to discuss new measures here too, and we will do so. You do not ask any questions about pension reform, which I already understand, because it is very unpleasant to you that the ÖVP government now provides €1 350 per month as an account for the retirement periods. [[New call of the abg. Stadlbauer.]] Yeah, yeah, four years. It's been two years with you. And the compensatory allowance rate is now 400 €. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The answer to question 19 will also arise as part of the evaluation. Question 20: I've never talked about a “father protection month”, but always about the dad-month, because the father is not to be protected. Mother protection has a health component, but you know what I think about it. I'd also like to submit this to you in writing. I am also in favour of talking about all the possibilities that lead to us approaching the Swedish model, which is not a whole month, but a whole ten working days, half a month, which we have already approached with seven to eight working days. On question 21: That is simply not the case with the tax reform, Mrs Colleague. By the way, they mentioned three different numbers. In the Federal Council you mentioned 1.5 million, in question 2.5 million, today you have spoken of 1.6 million. What you overlook is that 1.5 million women have not yet paid a tax and now more women will not pay tax. This package clearly says that women have a greater benefit, because the increase in income will be 2% for women, with only 1.5 percent for men. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On question 23, part-time, I can subsume because my time has, unfortunately, already expired.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15325	Mrs. Federal Minister, you can talk longer. It's a target, I said extra. With 26 questions there is understanding that you speak 5 minutes longer. You don't have to be like that. You're talking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15341	Thank you many times, Mr President. I am so obedient to my President that I do not dare to cross over, but thank you for allowing me to address the question even more precisely. On the question 23: They claim that we exclude many parents from the right to part-time work. – This claim also does not correspond to the legal situation. The 2004 reform extended the right to part-time for employees in businesses with more than 20 employees until the seventh year of life of the child. But, of course, for everyone else, there is still special protection against dismissal and dismissal in the case of part-time parents until the end of the fourth year of the child's life and the prohibition of a motivating at part-time after the fourth year of the child's life. As far as the non-stop line or the SPÖ zigzag line is concerned, I have already given my opinion earlier. [[Abg. Stadlbauer: These are herb and beetroot!]] On the question 24, intervention agencies. This is particularly important to me because these intervention agencies do excellent work. I can tell you that they were introduced in 1999 in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Women with an amount of about €500 000. In 2000, there was then €900 million. I can tell you, over the past five years, we have more than doubled this sum. In these last five years, there have been substantial measures in these intervention agencies against domestic violence, which are doing excellent work, because we have doubled this amount, although the amounts for all others have increased by only about 3 to 5 percent. So here's a doubling. We are at €1.75 million. There have been additional equipment annually. The next five-year contract has already been concluded. On question 25: Next to the 10-year Women's Report. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that you have also overlooked or do not want to see it... – So, first of all, there were only two ten years of women’s reports, namely 1985 and 1995, which, when they appeared, were mostly outdated for a long time, because the figures have naturally changed. We have produced a number of reports in 2003 and we will bring out two more next year. In the near future, you will receive the report “Men and women in Austria 2005”, a comprehensive presentation of the disparities. Together with the other reports, we will provide a collection of these reports from 2003 to 2006, in March 2006, where the last two reports will be available. However, you can of course already see all the other reports that we have produced. First, they are published on the Internet, second, you have already received some of them, for example, the state government's top report on the reduction of the disadvantage of women, which represents projects worth € 2.6 billion. On the last question, question 26: What activities and priorities will be taken into account in women's policy Do you sit during the EU Presidency of Austria? We have here in Vienna on the 11th and 12th. January the High Level Group Gender Mainstreaming, a high-level Committee on Gender Equality, will discuss all issues of gender equality policy. ==References== Januaryen an informal meeting of the Ministers for Gender Equality in Brussels on the topic of "Harmful Traditional Practices", that is, traditional violence. We will also bring this issue to the United Nations Women's Status Commission. We dedicated the informal ministerial meeting with the women's and health ministers in April to the topic of women's health. For the first time, I have succeeded in making this issue a matter in the EU and in achieving a gender-specific presentation of women's health indicators in the OECD. We are also planning, together with the Commission, a conference on Gender Pay Gap, which we are likely to hold in May, so that we can also contribute to the ministerial conference in Luxembourg in June. Ladies and gentlemen! I tried to speak very quickly. I think I could call you part of our work. Actually, I could have told you a lot more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15395	We are now going into the debate. Mrs Csörgits is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of legal speaking time. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15420	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister, at the beginning of your speech on women's policy, you asked the question in which country we live. So I can easily answer this question. In the last five years, there has been simply no progressive women's policy in this country. You have to get that to the point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is a view!]] – Yes, a correct perspective, because in the times when social democracy was in government and the women’s ministers such as the Dohnal, Conrad and Prammer have acted, something has moved women. And it would have moved a lot, much more, if we had not this opposition partner, who is now doing so progressively, but basically does not have the heart of women, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you long for the great coalition?]] On this occasion I would like to return to the special issue of part-time employment. I think, Mrs Federal Minister, you do not want to understand us, because our position is very clear and clear. Part-time employment in some situations can create the possibility of not coming back to the stove completely. Part-time work with the possibility of returning, and with a legal regulation that goes in this direction, is a good thing. But part-time work, as it is now taking place in this country, that it is automatically only the form of working time for women, is dangerous. Then it will be dangerous, because we are already approaching the 50 percent mark. Almost 50 per cent of women employed are in part-time employment, and tends to rise. We are far above the European average here. When I think about the fact that your pension reform also gives up women in connection with life-long calculation at the latest at the age of poverty, I believe that this is not a progressive women's policy. And I think that measures need to be taken here. Part-time employment in certain phases, but not as an automatic form of working time, as you currently only offer them to women. And all the measures related to increasing employment – I can't hear it anymore – are based solely on part-time employment. We have had a common summit where I was very optimistic and where I would also like to say to the fairness that one or the other is being addressed. Nevertheless, we are in the situation that in October 2005 we again have more than 115 000 registered women as unemployed. That's Innsbruck! The population of Innsbruck includes so many people. If I add those women to the training and post-training, qualification measures, then this figure increases to 143 000. This corresponds to the population of the third largest city in Austria, namely Salzburg. It is precisely in this area that women are mainly affected by unemployment in the working age, and those women who can no longer return to their jobs after a baby break because, thanks to their unclear regulations relating to worker protection and child benefits, it is becoming increasingly difficult for these women. And there are also no measures, even there you are required, and nothing has been done to date. If you have pointed out all that is available in surveys and statistics, I say yes, okay. And we've talked a lot, too, and we've already talked a lot together. But I think the time of speaking is over. Now belong to acts committed. And there we are all required. So let us finally do something in common, and do something first and foremost with us, Mrs Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15481	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15503	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The former SPÖ foreign minister Jankovitsch, whose statements were often read in the media in the last few days, said a few days ago in a “curier” interview about the SPÖ, the SPÖ is a state-bearing party. So I have to say, with engagement, of that, since the SPÖ has been in opposition, not much, long ago nothing more, and I can only say that trend is rising. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] An obvious example of this is the urgent request made by the SPÖ today, which is only so perplexed by inaccurateness, half-truths and untruths. And by the way, uncertainty is deliberately spread. And this is not responsible policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can say that with them at every urgent moment!]] Unlike you, we work and implement things that, although often required under SPÖ leadership, have not been implemented long ago – I only remember the right to part-time work. But on the subject of labour market, which was also mentioned in your request. We are all aware, as I hope, that the labour market situation in Austria cannot be decoupled from the international situation. And since Austria is significantly better than most European countries in the international comparison, it is probably also well known. The Federal Government, under Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, has taken numerous precise and target-oriented measures in this area in recent years and has set a particular focus for the support of women. It is true that the annual average of current female unemployment rose by 3.2 per cent compared to the previous year, which is quite worrying. However, we have immediately taken this increase into account by using 50 percent of the total budget available for active labour market policies for women, although they represent only 42 percent of the total supported persons. These measures were particularly successful in older women over 50. As a result, unemployment could be reduced by 9.7 percent compared to the previous year, which, as I believe, is quite a tangible success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, whatever you unfortunately do not mention in your tyrates is the fact that despite existing unemployment, the number of women in employment is increasing continuously and significantly. We must take note of that. In the annual average 2004, 22 382 women had more jobs than in the previous year, and this is an increase of 1.5 percent. Obviously, we manage to create the positive framework conditions that allow companies to offer more jobs. I would also like to take a brief look over the border to Germany as far as the female employment rate is concerned, because the red and green Federal Government has now been selected, so God belongs to the past; there are considerably fewer women in employment than in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Another comment on the part-time work of women. My colleague, Renate Csörgits, has just pointed out that 50 percent of all women have part-time jobs. It is always presented by the SPÖ as if women were forced to work part-time. I believe, however, that we really need to note that a large part of women are deliberately looking for part-time jobs, even looking at part-time jobs and not wanting to take advantage of them. And if we always hear from the SPÖ that many women can only work part-time because of non-existent or insufficient childcare facilities, then I refer to the statistics Austria, which is probably unwarranted, because that is only for 7.2 percent of all women working part-time. So I think we have clearly stated what we are talking about. But obviously your data is not quite as up-to-date, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, if you say in your question that the income shears between men and women have grown under the black and blue Federal Government. I have seen how the development of income shears actually took place by the year 2000 or from the year 2000, Mrs Colleague. And the fact is, between 1995 and 2000 the working-time adjusted income shears decreased by 0.6 percent, between 2000 and 2002, i.e. within just two years, but by one percent. So it has not risen as you claim, and is much more closed than it was before. – So again there is a targeted disinformation and uncertainty by the SPÖ. I can only reject this vehement, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A word about child care. They blame us again and again for pushing the women back to the stove with the introduction of the childcare allowance. I would now like to ask you a very basic question, Mrs Colleague: Is there a push back on women if there is the possibility to obtain child care allowance for a maximum period of two and a half years? Is it a reluctance if a multiple of the amount that was previously required to be paid for a pension is now considered as a means of award? Is that a push back? - Certainly not! A legal reduction of the possibility of reference – would that be your solution? This would enable women to make this phase more flexible and independent, and you would agree on the ability to know what they are doing. People with their individual needs are at the heart of the ÖVP. The childcare allowance corresponds to this picture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that the SPÖ cannot begin much with independent non-ideologies-led people has once again become clear to me. We are about to have the final report on childcare allowance. Then we will look at facts where we can develop and flexibly in the interests of women and families. I invite you, if it is really serious – and I assume it is – to think with us here. Finally, as the honourable Member of Vienna, I can make two comments on Vienna, which you have also referred to in your question. They point to the importance of child care services. I can only support that. It is interesting, however, that in Vienna the four- and five-year-olds of Austria are almost least likely to be in child care if you go from the quota. With the four-year-olds, Vienna is the most recent place in Austria, with the five-year-olds. I can only recommend the SPÖ in Vienna to rethink the cost design, which is still very high despite the social staggering. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They also point to the partly difficult social situation of women, including the increasing risk of poverty. Again, I can advise you to look into the poverty report. The increase in this risk of poverty is solely due to Vienna, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Misswirtschaft in Vienna! Vienna has the lowest social assistance!]] Finally, I would like to say one more word to the Greens – my speaking time is already over. Last time I showed you the T-shirts that many of you did not know yet, on which our Minister Gehrer was disavowed in the worst way and also made bad as a woman, with statements I do not even want to repeat here. The Greens have not yet distanced themselves from it! [[Call to the ÖVP: So they are!]] Mr Oellinger has neither apologised nor referred to it in any way. I think it would be a good idea for the Greens to distance themselves from this type of advertising, otherwise the Greens will be out of the way for women, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15614	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15635	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Csörgits, you first asked what country we live in. – I am glad to live in a country where the ÖVP and the future alliance Austria represent women’s policy and also implement it with good measures! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is really remarkable, as the ladies from SPÖ are trying, under the motto “attack is the best defense” to cast their missing women’s policy, because many women – especially older women – must live and suffer under the effects of their socialist women’s policy. I am talking first and foremost about the minimum pensioners. Why are they women first and foremost? – More than 154 000 women have to suffer from the inheritance of this SPÖ women's policy at the time! Why? – Because you have never found it worth the effort to recognize child education as a value added, as a service – neither child education nor the care periods that people – especially women – have done at home. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Stress!]] And I think it is very strange if you write today in your request – as one of your demands – that child training times are not adequately assessed. This is almost a farce when comparing it with the situation of women living today with minimum pensions. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You made the pension reform, not we!]] Thank God there is the Minister of Social Affairs, Haubner, who has insisted on increasing the minimum pensions, especially for women, so far as the minimum pensioners are concerned in the future, from the 1st century onwards. January 2006, more than €805 per month will be available if you convert it to twelve months. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the future, independent pension schemes will also be guaranteed, in particular for women who interrupt their employment by their desire for childcare, and their needs will be taken into account as four years of child training will be charged for the pension, with a basis of calculation of more than €1 350. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 1 157, stay with the truth!]] The care is also finally recognized. In the future, too, those who have committed themselves entirely to caring for their families who give up income, and also those who limit their work and maintain their families and have to bear a double burden. These will also have a fair chance of a private pension in the future. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: If they pay contributions, isn't it?]] This black-orange government also made it possible for women to no longer have two classes. [[Abg. Oils: Black-blue or black-orange?]] I'm thinking about child rearing and child care. At the time of SPÖ women's policy, there were these two classes: the farmers, students and housewives had no chance of getting childcare money, because it was quite clear to you that you had to work from the outset to get into the enjoyment of karenz money. There has also been a so-called professional ban on karenz money. [[Abg. Stadlbauer: That's not true!]] Small employment was allowed. Now there is at least a certain amount of commitment up to a limit. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Preaching water!]] However, we would wish that in the future there would be no longer any limit of merit, so that a wide range of service options are clearly available. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned briefly today: Women's employment is also a very big concern to this government, and in the last employment offensive it has become very concrete, offensive priorities – not a casting pot principle! – set up for women, especially re-entry and qualification, because it is especially important to bring women into women's untypical occupations. More than €100 million will be made available to promote qualification programmes and provide women with better opportunities in crafts and technology. Ladies and gentlemen! We heard this morning when sports promotion was decided: For us, women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. Today, more than €400 000 has been decided for women's promotion in the sports sector in particular. This is also an area in which it has never been recognised at all that special women's promotion is to be taken into account in top-level sports. [[Abg. Shashing: That's not true!]] Something is also done in the field of science. More than €8.9 million are available for the years 2000 to 2006: for funding of professors, for women's funding plans at universities and also for promotions to inform girls about any or whatever possibilities there are in the non-typical studies for women. [[Abg. Oillinger: It would be nice if you would pay the reader adequate salaries! They're mostly women!]] It is also similar with the research offensive: Yes, it is true that Austria is quite the last in terms of women's technology and research in the field of non-university. But why? - Because someone never cared about it before. Now funds are being made available by the Offensives, the Research and Technology Development Council, so that there is also an opportunity for women to be encouraged in the companies in order to make it easier to penetrate the so-called glass ceiling in the future and to provide impetus for research in the field of technology and development. Women's issues are also very important to us in the field of safety: I am referring only to the Stalking Act, which is now under review and will certainly come to treatment here in the House in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! Women's policy and the promotion of women are not a lip commitment for us. We are taking very concrete action and action, and we will not reject it in the future and will continue to work for women in Austria. I think it is important to end the polemics and to work together with us for the women in Austria – I am particularly speaking to the colleague inside of SPÖ and Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15804	Mrs Stadlbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. Facts against facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15828	Mr President. Mr Achleitner claimed that there was a professional ban earlier, while women were in Karenz. – That’s not true! I'm actually correcting: Of course, women could also work and earn. That's what they called part-carence at the time. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner:... Lowliness!]] The good thing about it was that women were also insured under labour law. You took it away from them now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15876	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Weinzinger. Your welcome time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e15900	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! To send a urgent request to Mrs. Rauch-Kallat is almost a contradiction in itself, because if we have learned one in these around two years of the ministry of this minister, then she answers questions, if you ask specifically, in principle, not but rather gives a fog cloud of general places, half-truths and plateaus, which can only be summarized under one title: all sound and smoke-callat! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: It's also more polite!]] That's how it was today. If you have listened – and I have listened very carefully! – you will have noticed that, by the way, Mrs. Minister – like the text that is available – has announced measures against the reduction of gender differences in income. I hope that this will be a reduction measure. However, I know that the measures listed are a little bit of a Sunday rhetoric and will certainly not contribute to a reduction in income differences. So I listened well and can therefore judge: Nothing came again this time! – And I understand! I almost feel sorry for the woman minister, because where is nothing, what are we to talk about? What can be answered in concrete terms if no concrete action is to be taken in this respect? We only need to look at the balance sheet of the Minister for Smoking. – First I do it a little salopp with what I let happen to Revue. Then I also have something from Mrs. Minister himself. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is nothing new, “salopp ”!]] The fact that the Minister has done or tried to do in the broadest sense was to give part-time workers good advice in the pension reform, so that they can also afford supplementary pension insurance. Then there is the famous vocational orientation course as the only new labour market policy measure ever to date. There was the flop with the text change of the German anthem, and there is now this “man(s) believes it hardly” campaign, in which one can hardly really believe what is being carried out there. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: One discussed... in the “ZiB 3”! She's right!]] What did the Minister say about concrete measures or statements on budgetary policy, pension reform, tax reform, poverty reduction, labour market policy for women across the board? - Nothing! Silence in the forest, silence like the Federal Chancellor and at least no commitment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If prior to that in the debate Environment Minister Pröll was accused of having resigned as Minister for the Environment, then it cannot be blamed on the Minister of Smoking: She didn't quit. She's just never taken up her office as a woman's minister, and I think that's much worse. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Oh, you! Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen in the ÖVP are becoming restless. I'm glad you're listening, I'm glad! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That's not very informative what you're saying!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: It's hard enough to listen to you!]] I also have the balance sheet here, which your Minister of Women himself is presenting. Mrs. Minister counts – not quite inappropriately under the title “Man(s) hardly believe it” – on what measures women’s policy is being taken by this government. – The company operates under “Fries-Kick” in the textual context. There's the first block. Profession and family. – This is an advertisement, an advertisement of the minister herself. So I haven't invented that freely now, even if it might sound like I'm inventing that stifle. Here comes the topic of strengthening family income with several sub-points, independent retirement insurance, re-entry – i.e. family policy measures. In my opinion, women's policy is not family policy! Well, if there's more, then I'll... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Pension insurance is not necessarily family policy, Mrs. Weinzinger! You didn't understand!]] – I don't want to qualify more precisely for anyone who didn't understand anything, otherwise I'll get a call for order. – I will address the family policy measures mentioned here for a moment. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This superiority...!]] Then there is a second point – with the subpoints already much thinner – on women's employment and mentoring. This is where the employment package, the €100 million - also referred to by the previous speaker - for the promotion of women. . We know that this famous initiative to bring women into crafts and technology professions is a new initiative in which the money is taken away from the already existing initiative for the promotion of women in technology, i.e. a pure rework and reinvention of a measure that is already being successfully implemented by other actors. This is forward-looking policy? – But really not! Then there is advice for women seeking work – this famous woman switch at the AMS, which I really think is a counterproductive alibi measure. What will help if, instead of half of all activities in the AMS, or even more – because the problem is so pressing – an inner-architectonic measure is put in place and a hut is put in place somewhere, and above this one writes “woman switch”? This should help women to cope better with anything in the labour market? – Really not! There is no longer any measure in the share of women in leadership positions. Then, of course, you still have your business mentor, and: Women and health. – That was practically all. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Your suggestions?]] There is no woman living in poverty risk or poverty, no woman who – with or without child care – has serious problems in the labour market, is somehow positive or affected. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What do you suggest?]] There are also many women who are stuck in the deadlocks of their careers or who fall into the glass ceiling. They need a very different policy! There is one point – to the SPÖ Members – in which I really disagree with you: The title of your urgent request states that five years have passed without women's policy. I would say that even without women's policy, this policy of the Federal Government is of course highly relevant to women! Five years – soon six years! – policy is made, with which a model is clearly run, that women stay at home best, care for the children and are not employed, because you put all the ways in this direction because [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Such a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: such a pot!]] You make policy, above all for single earners, because you keep the limit of merit as narrow as possible because you are pursuing the labour market policy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Such a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You have a very selective perception!]] The Minister has just discussed it again: Women's unemployment is not an issue at all! Indeed, growing unemployment of women can be seen under “remotely running” statistically! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't watch!]] Women's employment is so great! – Does she say that she counts all minor jobs and part-time jobs, that they are not jobs, on which women can only build a very close existence? - No, on the contrary! She's happy! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: People do this voluntarily! ... Forced luck!]] It is satisfied, and I am not, and that is the difference in our policy! Because it – as well as All of them, I can only assume – it is satisfied that the traditional model with the family feeder, father at home, single earner is enough anyway. – That’s exactly the policy we don’t need! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: People want it voluntarily!]] [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Kombi-Lohn!]] Very concrete: If you, Mrs Deputies, can't imagine anything under concrete women's policy, I now give an example We have a campaign here, which could not even be conscious in any positive form – “You don't believe it” – about €300 000 in about how I took the media. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can't imagine families!]] On the other hand, it is all the time famous how great the intervention agencies do not work. But is it said that several districts in Vienna can no longer be fully cared for, because the announced increase, which is necessary in the construction phase, does not come from the Minister of Agriculture? Is it said that the Innsbruck Frauenhaus de facto is de facto complex, that one had to cut half of the staff in Graz at the Frauenhaus? – That would be women’s policy, and not any alibi confessions, attached to poster walls! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I am confident that what Mrs Marek has found so great in Germany is what you have to say: the election. - I like that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16212	The next speaker is Mr Christ. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16244	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The title of our request can be repeated woman, but also you can not often repeat enough: Five years of black and blue/orange are five years without a recognizable women's policy. – After this sad balance, you should change the point “woman” in your government program to “see nothing, hear nothing and do nothing – especially –”. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have to join many of my previous speakers: Women are the biggest losers in this country because of their labour market policy. That's undisputed. The highest unemployment in the Second Republic, created under this Federal Government, hits women hardest. – That is not to be discussed away. Because of your wrong labour market policy, only every second woman manages to re-enter, let alone that because of high unemployment it is at all possible to find an adequate job. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! An adequate job or adequate work means that women are guaranteed the same opportunities and opportunities to rise, the same income for equivalent work and opportunities for independence and independence. – This is far from being achieved. More than 30 percent is the difference in income between men and women. We are sure of the final light position in the EU, and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are watching largely inactively! The introduction of the model of the combination wage also promotes this whole bad situation. In addition, it must be made clear that the Federal Government is doing almost nothing to allow the girls of the traditional career choice, especially when they choose a teaching profession, to open up and allow the ways to the well-known male domains. This would contribute to achieving higher incomes, which will result in a better overall insurance, including in the pension, and above all in an independent life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, mys. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, it must be pointed out again and again that proper re-entry for women is only possible if sufficient and comprehensive childcare facilities are available and that you have to take care of them as long as you are still in government function. Childcare facilities are a guarantee that work and family can be reasonably agreed. There is also a huge problem here when the municipalities, especially the smaller rural communities, are completely in the rain. Even if it is possible to build, build, build, create a childcare facility, then most often the fees that have to be lifted there are the next steps to inhibit a woman, perhaps for a single parent who wants to accommodate the child there in a crabhouse, in a kindergarten or in a hort in order to be able to work again. [[Abg. Steibl: What is more important to you: a sports ground, a street assembling or a babysitting facility?]] How should a woman with an income of €530 net for a cleaning job that she does 20 hours a week – after two years of unsuccessful search, and even the support of the AMS has brought nothing – be able to afford her life, be independent and make her life orderly? Although there are work foundations – Mrs Minister, you know that – that provide great and valuable help, you are the one that has always rejected a national Women's Foundation to put in place and allow for further support for women. That should actually give you some thought! Another concrete example: a single parent with very real 700 € per month net. How should the one scratching house around €350 – which is an average value – be able to afford to her child, and also have enough to live? – This is not possible. [[Abg. Steibl: In Vienna!]] [[Abg. Steibl: In Vienna! - Who's mayor?]] No, this is in Upper Austria, ladies and gentlemen. They should read not only the Vienna statistics, but also others from the federal states. Sometimes I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, that you are taking Henrik Ibsen’s drama “Nora” as a model for your women’s policy. I can only recommend: Go inside, change this attitude, it's sure the wrong one! Mrs. Federal Minister, it is so – since we are not sitting here in Parliament to knock our shoulders and to give a bus, you simply have to say it: [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women's policy means interfering, being consistent, not acting with it – especially important! – to be annoying! Mrs. Federal Minister, start with that at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16333	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16354	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! You don't want to believe it, but we're discussing a urgent person who brought in the SPÖ. However, the interest of SPÖ delegates is low, which is correct: [[Abg. Friend: It's small!]] Not even half is present. [[Abg. Friend: Very low!]] This, I believe, leaves no doubt as to how seriously the SPÖ is taking this issue itself. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] After this urgent request and the fields that have been prepared there, you can of course ask more, ladies and gentlemen, of course! – and if they can be financed, we are also happy to be ready for improvements. But that one creates panic with false facts and untruths and that one makes everything and every bad one, that is something I quite abhor in politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Or do you feel in this negative swamp? - We don't. We have acted, we have increased the social rate in the years since Federal Chancellor Schüssel was Federal Chancellor. By the way: It has fallen until 1999. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] 70,000 women also receive a pension, because earlier 25 years were necessary, now only more than 15 years are needed. We raised the minimum pension to 690 €. [[Abg. Riepl: The unemployed have become more!]] – Benefits for pensioners who have never been established in the government under a Social Democratic chancellor! We have introduced pensionable child rearing periods, and we have increased the expectable child rearing times from 18 to 24 months. In the past, there were 80,000 people involved in karenz money, and today more than 140,000 mothers already have children’s money. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Bleckmann.]] At the same time, we were able to increase the female employment rate by 3.2 per cent to 62.8 per cent, which means that we are 7 per cent above the EU average. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Women working part-time, Mrs Weinzinger, work part-time voluntarily! No one's forcing them to do that! [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: “I believe you every word!”]] We have decided on a 100 million € package for a qualification campaign for women, so that they can also make up for compulsory schooling and so that we can help them get back in. [[Abg. Riepl: Why are more and more women out of work?]] Why are there still so many? – Thank you for the keyword. – Take a look at Vienna! If I look more closely at these areas of problem, which are addressed in the urgent question, and look for the causes, look at where that really takes place, then I come to see that every third unemployed person comes from Vienna. And – listen carefully! – the unemployed who do not have compulsory schooling are two thirds from Vienna 66 percent of the unemployed do not have compulsory schooling – and compulsory schooling is SPÖ responsibility! [[Abg. Oellinger: The election campaign is over!]] [[Abg. Sieber: Oh, that's it?]] SPÖ responsibility is compulsory school! Vienna has the lowest social assistance! – They criticize the risk of poverty. Increase social assistance in Vienna! Then we have a lot less at risk of poverty, because this is a problem in Vienna. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Bleckmann.]] Vienna has the highest kindergarten fees: up to 196 € – and this is not woman-friendly! Vienna is at the end of the childcare rate. [[Abg. Reheis: That's not true either! If it's still so often claimed, it's not true!]] In other words, child care in Vienna is not perfectly guaranteed. And that we have a structural problem here, combined with unemployment, which is bundled! Wouldn't Vienna pull the Austrian average so dramatically down – we wouldn't have such a big problem anymore! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] They are trying to suddenly raise the mismanagement in Vienna to the federal level. Improve the situation of women in red Vienna by increasing social assistance, by creating new jobs! Under Chancellor Schüssel, 70 000 new jobs were created. Only: In the same period, 14 000 have been dismantled in Vienna. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. One.]] And all this under a red, SPÖ-led Vienna! The unemployment rate in Vienna is the highest in all federal states. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ operates Vienna in an anti-female climate – as by destroying jobs – and then tries to talk to the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. One:... the opposite!]] Solve the problems in Vienna, then you will see how good this women's policy is!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16581	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16602	Mr President. Minister! High house! It was said that women's policy cannot be family policy at the same time. It's clear there are differences, but I'm already asking: Why, then, do women have problems especially in working life? – The basic problem is that the compatibility of family and profession is not so easy to make. [[Abg. Oils: Oh, that's it! I believed because of the SPÖ or for Vienna!]] That is why this part of family policy is a particularly important part, and in this respect it is two areas, two types of policy, which are very closely related to me. And that's why I can't say: Family policy is nothing, but we must do women's policy!, but I believe that the focus must be on the very one that the government also sets by saying that family policy is important, and, above all, the area of reconciliation between family and work is a special concern for us, and more and more priorities need to be set here – such as the family alliance, which has also been founded. This is important, and these priorities will be set. That is why it is not possible to say that women's policy is not family policy. Women's policy and family policy must take place together! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] - Say it like that! For you, it is probably not important that there be compatibility for women. Then you also say that the policy that is being made leads to women staying at home. That's what I'm asking: What did the karenz money you had under SPÖ government lead to? – In addition, the women were not allowed to work during the time they were in Karenz, otherwise they would not have received the karenz money. [[Abg. Stadlbauer: That's not true!]] But that's how it was! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:...! You weren't there before?]] Through the childcare allowance, women have the opportunity to keep in touch with their businesses, and now no longer have a professional ban – which they had before. That's it! Take note that this has now been improved! [[Abg. Stadlbauer: But that's not true what you say!]] You yourself said that child care money would no longer be abolished today, but you would only improve it and expand it, or whatever. In any case, please also note that the childcare allowance is a good establishment that this government has created. And it's also good that we all improve it together. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Neudeck and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] What we would like to do is, of course, to raise the limit of merit. So we should all work on this, that there are even better opportunities here. If we are now talking about the differences in income between men and women, I have to say – and I have been active in women's policy for a long time – that this issue has been the most important issue for years, probably since women's policy was its own policy. Only: Very much has not happened in this area in the last 40 years, you have to take note of that. You too did not succeed in blaring any improvements in the time when you had one woman minister after another. You must also note that this seems to be a very difficult area. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: More has happened before!]] I'll give you the following on the way if They are really interested in changing, improving something – in addition to what the government is already doing: Join the social partners! Put in place where collective agreements are made for women as well! Do you talk to your trade union colleague, who, above all, always negotiate collective agreements, that they, including the men for women, are committed to improving collective agreements in the areas where women are active! [[Abg. Stadlbauer: Talk to the economy that it pays better!]] Look at that in this area you also move something where you still have the opportunity to move something. Sit in there! - Nothing happens! Not even to implement and enforce a minimum wage of € 1,000 has so far been successful on the side of the trade union. [[Abg. You have no idea of wage negotiations!]] Try it once! They seem not to have done a great job for this. [[Abg. Seven: Be annoying! Be annoying!]] And what you have to do in this area is now to carry out awareness campaigns, bring about changes in consciousness, and that can only be done with media work. The only thing I can remember is what you've done about awareness campaigns, the half-and-a-half campaign of the luckless women's minister, Konrad, from the Styria, which you then dropped as quickly as possible – it seems that this 50-50 rule in budget management has also gone a little too far. In so far as you have also hoped that this is a good instrument, so you can't condemn the fact that awareness campaigns are also being made by the government, because this is a good and possible tool to bring about a change of consciousness here. If you address the issue of childcare, you know for yourself that childcare is a country matter, and you have some national leaders who, if they wanted, could also change a lot. Here you could use it more strongly and encourage it, only: It is now the responsibility on the part of the country. The Federal Government has done an additional task here, a task of hard work, namely in the Social Ministry, where the Minister of Social Affairs has said, it is a great concern for her to create additional childcare places. There are €700 000 for the years 2005 and 2006, with which additional childcare places can be created, in addition to what the countries are doing. This means that by the end of 2005, there are 1 000 new childcare places on the basis of this project, and that will also be available for 2006. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Only for private projects! You know that!]] Take this into account, too, and take note that here on the side of the Federal Government we are doing hard work by working in areas for which the countries are actually responsible, i.e. your country leaders. Take yourself by the nose, and come at your own door!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16771	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16792	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, a few comments on what has already been said before I make my own contribution. If I have heard it right, Mrs Federal Minister, you have said that it will be one of the measures you are taking, a male and female report - or a female report - for the last ten years. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Several! ...! Didn't you look after me? – Mr Oillinger has not been careful!]] – Please listen! After all, you can say something if I have made the comment. I think that makes sense. But please, Mrs Federal Minister, could you at least talk to the men in your two political groups? They have demanded that there should be another male report on this report, which you are making, in which men and women are compared. And that's what they've done – with better knowledge that there's a report from your resort, in which women and men are already being compared for the past ten years. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you want to discriminate against men?]] You didn't get there – once again, Mrs. Federal Minister! What makes sense – and I say: You are right with this report – if the family ministry then says: But we need an extra man's report, because we do not at first trust what comes out of it, and secondly, the men are anyway the pains of the nation and the actual victims. That is what we are talking about in this whole debate or debate with you: it is also being tried to play politically, that the actual victims, if there are victims, are men and not women. This will be explained to us once again by these rulers in the men's department, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Where, Mrs. Minister, is there your voice? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second point: They have put forward arguments or statistics that suggest that the income shears between men and women are now closing a little in the short term – 2002, 2003. You know, Mrs Federal Minister, I have already brought you the argument why this is so. It is quite strange that in times of economic crisis and unemployment, the difference between male and female wages decreases. It's been working on the economy for years. The economists also find it difficult to explain this, and have a reason to explain that women in these situations of rising unemployment are more willing than men to accept everyone, even the worst job. – That’s the reason and the explanation why it comes to this strange phenomenon. Only: They did not say it and could not say it – and it is not an accusation from my side – what the Federal Government has done in particular to ensure that perhaps the gap between male and female wages closes by one percent. – You have not made any contribution at all, namely not just She is a woman's minister, but not the entire federal government! Yes, where are we in the Federal Government's initiatives towards raising minimum wages? Since it is useless to point out to the trade union – which is not only negotiating minimum wages, but still has a counterpart, which means that employers' side must agree, because of this the money comes from. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's it!]] There's nothing to say, We are not responsible for the fact that these minimum wages are not available!, and then to praise them somehow with a small smile, but it would be necessary to take initiatives from your side so that, in fact, women's wages by means of minimum wages, by means of legal minimum wages, change something. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The fact that these contradictions are still known!]] Third point and third comment, Mrs Bundesminister: If I heard it right – and I ask you now – then you were for the first time today – perhaps I have heard something wrong – for the tax deduction of childcare also for domestic care. Who am I asking you? By whom? Ms. Federal Minister Haubner says that even if the Omi and even if the woman - i.e. the mother - are caring for, the man should have the opportunity to claim the woman as a tax deduction for child care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Rauch-Kallat.]] – She explained that to us! And here, Mrs. Federal Minister, I would like to know about you: No, you don't want that? – If you just answer this question, please. No, we certainly do not want the Omi or the Grandpa or the woman to be regarded as a tax deduction for childcare! [[Abg. Steibl: No, we certainly don't want that...!]] [[Call the ÖVP: What do you have against the grandma?]] Because what we want, ladies and gentlemen, is to improve childcare services – and not to create exclusive deductions for women or mothers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, and now on the real topic. – At the beginning of your speech – we say: in the form of a slight polemic – you, Mrs. Federal Minister, said to SPÖ Members: “In which world... do you actually live?” – This was an attempt to build a polemic. [[Abg. Neudeck: Your speech has already failed so much that it is sausage!]] Mrs. Federal Minister, I'm not giving this back now and I'm asking: What world of life do you live in? Because we are all probably living inside, in this circle in different living worlds than the women we should be talking about today, who are affected by unemployment and poverty. I don't want everyone to live here in this world of life and put ashes on the head and say I don't have any income at all, that's my world of life. - No one wants that! But what we demand is an argument, an entrance, a willingness to understand these worlds of life. The SPÖ's request contains a decisive graphic that unfortunately – unfortunately, I am really sorry – is not carried out more closely under the heading: ‘Impact of income differences: low social transfers’. And there's a very interesting point inside: the level of emergency aid for women, which averages €468 per month – on average! That is, there are many women who get even less, and there are a few women who get more than €468. Now I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: Where's there? Your call – and our joint initiative here in Parliament – that it cannot stay with this €468, because €468 are too few to live?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You know that just as well as I do, I don't need to live in another person's world, but I know that: 468 € per month are too little to live! Nevertheless, politics takes place year after year. And I don't even care if it was different at SPÖ/ÖVP times – you always forget –; of course it wasn't better! Another year we will explain to you: You can't live on that! Nevertheless, let the people live on it and say that's their problem. 468 € are obvious enough – but we tell you, that is certainly not enough. Mrs Federal Minister, what we demand of you, this is a clear, strong voice for women – not because we believe that you could improve one or another or very much and reduce unemployment, reduce income differences, no, but because women need this strong voice. And, unfortunately, you're not.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16965	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e16986	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, you have created a new word today: Women's tax deductions. This is indeed not the measure we wish for together. Secondly, Mrs Fekter, you have strongly criticised the fact that we Social Democrats would always be sorry, panicting, making things bad. – Mrs Fekter, it is far from us to make something bad or to create panic, just, Mrs Fekter, it is the fact that the realities of women have truly changed over the last five years. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Especially in Vienna!]] If you've been listening to the woman's minister in reply to the question, you might think it's all in vain. “Vienna” was now a key word, Mrs Fekter: So as the Mostviertler MP, I do not feel responsible for the affairs of the city of Vienna. [[Abg. Steibl: But you are the national councillor for the whole of Austria!]] I am a regional MP, and it is about federal legislation, and it is about measures for women throughout Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation of women, ladies and gentlemen, has truly deteriorated. It can be read in EU statistics, OECD statistics, even in reports from the Ministry of Social Affairs: The monthly number of unemployed women increases. The income sheath between men and women is growing. The women in Austria are at risk of poverty, and above all in the retirement age the lives of women will deteriorate massively. – Ladies and gentlemen, you can’t talk that away, not speak beautifully, it’s just reality. The Minister of Women always emphasizes that women's policy is a cross-cutting matter, a matter that affects all areas of life and policy. – Beautiful and good, but all the more incomprehensible is the fact that the woman minister often does not consider herself responsible. Women's politicians, women's ministers, however, mean being annoying, interfering in all the materials of society, in all the materials that concern women's lives. Political work has to be done for this, but we don't feel any of it. We know that the situation of women is the same as it is, and it appears that the Minister is so right and that this actually corresponds to her understanding of politics, to her understanding of society. That is why the initiative of the Industrial Association together with the Chamber of Workers is all the more interesting, namely an initiative to reconcile work and family. The initiative on the compatibility of work and family would like to bring about a fundamental change in the framework conditions. The main focus is on optimising child care, providing child care, flexibilising child care, and promoting the partnership of housework. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister of the Interior has also addressed integration in her reply to the question, not necessarily a matter of women, but of women in the last episode, namely the language ticket, which is currently distributed throughout Austria to children in need of early promotion: 80 €, four hours a week, twelve times. This ticket can not be redeemed anywhere in Austria. – Just as a pseudomeasure, Mrs Minister, how many times your actions you have mentioned to us today in the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17045	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17068	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. So sometimes, when you listen here, you have to ask the socialists what they want, because once they want to have women's policy in this corner, once they want to have family policy in this corner, that is, just as they need it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Sage You know what you really want, because you mix apples with pears and you do not know what you do yourself if you ask a urgent question to the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and most of the questions concern the Minister of the Family! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Cross-sectional matter!]] But maybe I can give you something in the next few minutes so you know what we're doing in this area. I would now like to refer briefly to family policy, to what is referred to in this question, and I would like to say once again: Austria is, in terms of family benefits within Europe, proven to be second in Luxembourg. Family benefits are also seen as social transfers and, of course, also serve to reduce poverty. Studies show that these social transfers reduce the risk of poverty in a multi-personal household with children by up to two thirds. The 2004/2005 tax reform also supports and relieves 2.3 million families with 900 000 single earners, of which over 100 000 are single parents. Even if you don't want to hear it, I'd like to repeat it again: Childcare money with 650 million € is an achievement! If you're talking about the fact that there are no fathers going to Karenz, I'll tell you: Yes, there is still too little, but the number has doubled from 1.5 to 3.2 percent in recent times, from 2004 to 2005. And if you've heard that in 2004 170,000 parents paid the child care allowance and that it was almost 78,000 people before the introduction, I'll have to ask you: Why Disperse You do? Why do you overlook that? Why don't you want to hear that? This has nothing to do with a policy “Women, back to the stove! ” – By the way: Herd is modern. In the bookstores, the cookbooks tower. I would like to mention that family benefits now amount to €5.4 billion. In 1999, it was only €4.1 billion. And this is what you have to say: Childcare... – Mrs. Silhavy, child care is a country issue, and I am pleased that Mr. Landesführer Voves now offers free of charge for the last kindergarten year and that Styria is also taking on a pioneering role when it is actually done what has been mentioned here many times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Steibl, how about the cookbooks? Does that apply to men or women?]] – For both, also for you! This is because it is obvious You have forgotten from SPÖ what you have done in the area of family policy: Under the leadership of the SPÖ, the withdrawal of the birth grant until the third year of life of the child, the reduction of the reference period of the care allowance and the reduction of the leave period to 18 months was decided. [[Wow-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Hornek: crazy! It's social cold!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Wasn't there also Mr. Schüssel there somehow?]] Mrs Prammer, our current Madam President, once said to the Upper Austria news: The rest of the people who never worked and were always just a housewife! They're getting babysitting money. This alone shows that you also have to stay a bitsel on the ground. I think you put a lot too fast on your head, but it's much harder to put something on your feet and see that it's on track and that good politics is being made. And that is exactly what we do in Austria with this Federal Government under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and with our wife Federal Minister for Women's Affairs smoke-callat. You know about the SPÖ anyway, but you don't want it to be true.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17169	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17190	Mr President. High house! I wondered what really has to be done in Austria, that Mr. Veit is concerned about the industrial association and Mr. Herbert Tumpel from the Chamber of Labour, both very honourable gentlemen, for a press conference and that he is calling for more childcare places in Austria. [[Federal Minister of Smoking Call: Thank God!]] – Thank God the two do this, Mrs Minister, however: When did you last do this? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When did you last give a press conference, perhaps with allies from the economy, from workers' travels, and say: We urgently need childcare places in Austria!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Neudeck: Especially in Vienna!]] I know that this mixture of women's and family policies is always a very delicate thing, but there is, of course, a very direct connection as women's life is simply not as determined as they should be if there is no place where they can be well cared for if there is no way to be active. We have already heard a number of figures today. It is clear to me, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, that you are saying what you are not doing, but it would be good if you looked at the other side, so to speak, and I see a number of tasks to be solved, because you can see that the risk of poverty has doubled since the Social Report 2001/02, at the present time from 16 percent to 31 percent! We must also see that the risk of poverty of those women who are single and active has doubled from 14 percent to 28 percent! You can't pretend it's nothing! This is not about pure family questions either, but also about: What about the women who live under such a framework and really have to turn every euro around and see that they are somehow bringing the month around with their children? We also know – as can be read in the Social Report – that in families where women are also working, the risk of poverty is reduced by half. That is to say, from the social policy point of view, it should be an urgent concern – if you do not already care about women’s policies – that women can be active in order to avoid poverty. The fact that childcare places are an essential prerequisite for employment should all be clear. I don't know why this is so difficult to understand! I am now quoting a statement by Veit Worger at this press conference, which said that 50,000 women would find new and more jobs in better childcare services. – It must also be an important issue for you from the coalition parties that there is this possibility for women. Your comment is as follows: There would be childcare, but it would not be used. I can tell you what that is about. This is because there is no reliability. Parents, mothers do not act from today to tomorrow in the unknown, but they need a medium-, long-term perspective and need to know, if their child is, for example, a year old and they want to be working again in half a year, that they have a good and safe care place for their child, a place that is also financially viable. If you assure that and if you make sure that is actually given, then the women will do it very well. However, what they do not do – I give you the right – is that they enter into, so to speak, uncertainty into a working relationship without knowing exactly that the children are well and safe. The same applies also in the student and student sectors. We have a law now, but there is no legal certainty. It is not possible for parents to learn at school whether there is a day care for the students – or not! You have to plan this months ahead and be able to adapt accordingly. Not for nothing is the industrial association involved, because, of course, this is also in the sense of employers, if the employees have a long-term perspective. I would now like to address something that is very dear to my heart. – You keep trying to design new images. It has already been addressed this campaign, which is being driven through your ministry, Mrs Federal Minister for Smoking. There is a parallel between this and that of Mrs Haubner, who says: “It’s nice that Mommy had time for me!” – Who has not seen it from you, ladies and gentlemen: You don't have to watch TV endlessly to see that, but: Watch the Internet on the Ministry's homepage! You must have seen that! There is a young, totally shy couple, reading paper in the stylish, peak-clean living room, and then one of the children asks after another: Mommy, am I a favorite child? – And the mother tells each of the children of course: You're a favorite child, too! – I ask you: Have you ever been reading paper with five children from seven years of age to a half-year of age, sitting in a clean living room?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's a family picture that I really don't know! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Bad PR agency!]] When you look at that, it's really laughing, but on the other hand: What's going to be communicated to the families? What is this about families with five children? – You are too stupid, too stupid, too patchy, that you can achieve what is being shown here, because it’s all around you, it’s dirty with you, you don’t have this beautiful apartment by far, because you don’t know how to get out with five children with the money! Her answer is that this mother with five children can also be active! So, I mean, one cannot and must not do family policy and, in this sense, women's policy, because it is not allowed to precipitate women, which can never be reached! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17277	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Time remaining: 12 minutes. [[Calls: Is not there]] - She's here, she's hurrying. - Excuse me, Madame Mag. Muttons. I was so fascinated by the clean room with the five children, because at my sixth it was never cleaned up. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Don't make fun of it too, Mr President.]] Please, Madame Muttonen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17325	It is nice, Mr President, if you can get into these worlds of life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to forward two points. One has been mentioned more often today, namely that poverty is female. I don't think you can say that often enough; it's so. We know that in Austria poverty is increasing and that women are particularly affected. A second point, which I would like to stress once again, although your side is constantly opposed, is the following: It is true that women's policy cannot be equated with family policy. I wonder why, for example, it is never said about how fathers can put work and children under a hat. But I also have the answer for you or Your answer: Because you don't think of anything like that in your imagination! In your view, it is quite easy for women to bear the sole responsibility for the children. Ladies and gentlemen! What I would like to highlight today for these five years without women's policy is the question of the visibility of women in conservative cultural and scientific policies and the importance that this government attaches to women in art and culture and in the scientific field at all. And I can say, unfortunately, this finding is very disillusioning if you look at it a little bit more closely. Although the arts and culture sector of the government programme is gender-based, that was already the case, there are not really any other signals. Approaches to actively support women in the arts and culture sector are missing, infrastructures in the cultural sector, where many women are also employed, are increasingly being reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! After five years of conservative government, the arts and culture sector is more man-domestic than ever, especially when it comes to posts, positions and the allocation of public resources. Although women are highly represented in the cultural labour market, they are hardly found in executive functions. It is not new, however, that the air in leadership positions is very thin for women; sad is only, Mrs. Minister, that you do nothing against it, and sad too is that you do not use the cross-sectional matter for which you are responsible and responsible, to interfere to take sides for women at all levels to engage. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Especially in the cultural field, in the last five years, the Federal Government has shown little initiative and no interest in an up-to-date examination of the material situation and the social situation of artists, especially women, who are in a very difficult situation. There was no inter- to develop the so-called "art social security" which is still a mogel pack, not interested in functioning infrastructures, nor interested in promoting creativity and cultural participation of broad sections of the population. The situation of women in science. That's where reality speaks a clear language. The proportion of women in the Austrian research landscape is 19 per cent, and Austria is therefore in the lead in the European comparison. Although 40 percent of all science PhD studies by women are completed, only one employee is in one of the fifth scientific staff. So, a glass ceiling that has gotten anything but a jump during your reign. If you look at the universities, you know that the number of professors is very low. In this area Austria is also not to be found in the top field. I would like to know: What's going to be You do? What concrete proposals do you have to raise Mrs Gehrer? – In the next few years, 40 percent of professorships will become obsolete. It would be very important to take action, but until now, unfortunately, nothing has been heard of you. So there's a lot to do all around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17396	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17417	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated preliminary speaker! Although I am pleased about the great radius of the work of the Minister for Women, she cannot be held responsible for as many things as you want to make them responsible. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You always say cross-sectional matter!]] – Cross-section, yes, that is why I can also say what Mrs Gehrer is doing in the field of education, science and research, for example. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: She always has to interfere!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rada: That's not true!]] Mrs. Muttonen has apparently never gone through the galleries of Vienna in recent years, otherwise she would have had to realize that the galleries in Vienna are essentially run by women. Whoever likes to attach the mesh? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Have you read the university report?]] [[Abg. May. Muttons: What about senior posts?]] For example, Mrs. Gabriele Zuna-Kratky, Mrs. Director-General Johanna Rachinger von der ÖNB, her predecessor-general Magda Strebl, were appointed many years ago, Ms. Ingried Brugger, Ms. Director Stella Rollig in the Lentos and many others. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Another one!]] So: Speaking You put things on by name and tell them where your problems lie! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this area, the government has done to a great extent what was possible in recent years. She has made exemplary vocations where she had the chance to call. However, I agree with you: The number of researchers inside, especially in technology, is not yet such that we can be satisfied. But you also know, Mrs Muttonen, that is a long-term project, which is also a question of change in the mind – a cultural change that needs to be worked on in the long term. This goes down to the question: How do you even move remote layers to the discipline that requires a school visit? How do you make the effort to avoid consumption that can be achieved in order to secure the future? And because we still have a lot to do, I can also remind you of what is already present, which has been initiated at least since 2001, for example in the promotion of girls and women. There is the “fFORTE – women in research and technology” initiative with three programmes: w-fFORTE, FEMtech-fFORTE and excellence. I would point out that this is a program along with the BMVIT that bears successful fruit. I refer to WIT – Witschafterinnenkolleg Internettechnologie. This is an example of the TU Vienna with Mrs. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Kappel and many others who are working on women in technological fields. There is a measure for women in science financed by ESF funds. Another essential measure will be restricted by the federal government, i.e. ESF funds, in order to promote career-oriented skills of women within and outside the university science field. You can read all of this on the homepage, I only bring it to you exemplaryly: FIT – women in technology, MUT – girls and technology, a programme that has been running for years to improve labour market opportunities and expand the professional spectrum of girls and women. This is a very important aspect. They wanted to know what was happening in this regard. For women and girls in the technology there is also an action in the TGM and in other higher technical training institutions to motivate girls to study for technical studies after the careful visit of technical schools. Other projects for women and girls in the education programme and migrants in adult education are available. Only as a keyword: Gender mainstreaming. The Ministry of Education is responsible and exemplary on the road. It has participated in this program from the start and can be proud of its work and results. I also mention gender mainstreaming in the field of national school councils and schools. I refer to the wonderful development of the number of students and graduates at the universities. We're 53 percent. Of course, I would like to see the share of Professors inside under this government increase further. The goal of becoming a professor and researcher – as a professional image – will become a matter of course for girls and women in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Evidence is enough. Women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. For the Minister for Education and Culture, Gehrer, I can say: We're good on our way. I invite you to participate in other programs.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17536	The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17557	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! If the ÖVP and BZÖ representatives or this government were to use as much energy as they would use only a few of this energy to work for women who need our support who are vulnerable to poverty, who are unemployed, as they present false figures, how they interpret statistics as they beautiful the situation, then it would be a little more just in Austria. [[Abg. Grander: Go!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Brinek, so that we can stick to the truth: But Mrs Gehrer has nothing to do with the fact that the Linz Museum Lentos has a female leadership. The federal government has never even paid a big or a cent for it. So please do not adorn yourself with this spring and somehow ascribe it to this government! But now to something completely different. Mrs. Minister! ==References====External links== November, is the International Day against Violence against Women. Immediately thereafter, the campaign follows 16 days against violence against women, namely, 25. ==References== December. We may be interested in the activities of the Minister for Women at this date. I'm afraid it's going to be just alibi again. We have already experienced this on the last day of the women's day when, at once, the fatherly protection month or dad's month, as you have said today, was demanded. No matter what it's called, you didn't do anything. You didn't work for it, you didn't do anything. Or: the Federal anthem. – A questionable set of priorities, but also a withdrawal. Or: the current women's campaign. – Sauerteuer, without political demands. The women will have nothing of it. There is so much to be done on the issue of violence against women. I would like to explain once again the difference between the SPÖ Women's Ministers and you, Mrs. Minister, to the danger that you will not feel responsible again. The difference is: Dohnal, Konrad and Prammer have always interfered, were always annoying in the sense of women. You could do that, too. You even have to do that! But this is annoying because women's policy is annoying and – even worse! – because the women are bothering you with their problems. If that's not true, tell us: How do you work with your colleagues in the government? How and where to rise For example, your vote on the anti-talking law, which is currently under consideration and which has already referred to Mrs Achleitner? Where is your vote, where we know that the current proposal does not meet the problem because the ban on contact is missing? The police must be able to place an immediate ban on contact with the perpetrator, who is constantly imitating the victim or harassing it. As a women's minister, you should know this if you are seriously dealing with problems that women have. Or: domestic violence, violence within the family. Where is your voice as a Minister of Women, where we know that in 2004 there were nearly 1,500 redundancies more than in 2000, but the human resources and the budget were not increased accordingly? There can be You're talking about what you want: It's not enough! Or, for example, trafficking in women. At least you've whispered a little, but concrete projects are not on the table. The SPÖ women have launched a campaign. I'll make you an offer now. Our campaign is called “Zero Tolerance – Zero Tolerance Against Violence against Women”. Together with NGOs, we have produced a catalogue of measures. We would like to make this available to you and we would like to invite you to implement it together with us in the interests of women. I would just like to take an example of trafficking in women. There would be a broad field of activity, especially in the run-up to the EU Presidency. There is the possibility to make a plan for this. There is the possibility of the stabilisation period. There are a lot of things about it. Again, the offer: I'll invite you to: Let's do something for the women! There's a lot to do. Unfortunately, his alone is too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17618	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17639	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Minister, you asked Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, which world she lives in. I'll tell you: In the real world, in reality it lives – among the people! We know, ladies and gentlemen, that the government groups for whom policy is being made in this country are very much in favour. For the general population not and not for women at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we should work this out in all clarity here and today, especially at a women's discussion. Poverty – you can beautify what you want! – is female! Unemployment is female! If we have a million people who live hard at the border of poverty and more than 50 percent of them are women, then we don't need to discuss female or male, then it's clear. And if more than 70 percent of the 125 000 people who live directly in poverty live in poverty, we do not need to discuss it either, because you cannot even speak on Sundays, Mrs Minister. They're fact! That's it. It has been said here by representatives of the government and by some Members of the House that the ladies want part-time. I invite you once to our regions across the federal territory. Very large companies don't employ a single lady as a full-time worker. To put it so that this is the wish of women, you are very far off. I also invite you to go to the people and discuss with the women who don't even have €700 a month, who may have neither the problem that they don't find any child care facilities that are durable and even not suitable opening hours of the childcare facilities. And then you pretend to be beautiful. In reality, your policy, but not only for women, but for people at all in our home country, has actually worsened everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I am sure not only the women, but above all the women will give you an answer, namely on the next day of the elections. I am very sure of that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me work out one more point because it is always about fairness and justice! We'll always find someone, a woman director, and so on. But if we look at what it actually is, no matter in which areas, in the private sector or in the public sector, I ask you: How many female section heads do we have? How many female ministerial councils do we have? What does it look like in generality? Or how does it look in the banks? Ladies and gentlemen! It's not even worth talking about. We all know: That's where the women can only be fooled. I also say this in full clarity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I say the following – and I am curious about what Mr Neugebauer will say about it in the next few days; I assume that he too was surprised: There has been a jubilation by the Minister of Finance that administrative reform II costs 15 667 planning posts. At a time when there is the worst and most precarious labour market situation in the Second Republic – you can't speak beautifully, Mr. Klubobmann – it is celebrated that 16 000 people are no longer reoccupied in the public service. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Sepp Rieder has negotiated this!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My final word, Madam President: Of this, more than 50 percent of female staff are affected. Therefore: They have actually resigned from women's policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17713	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[17:18:49]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17734	I take the negotiations on the 7th. Agenda item again. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17759	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be back to the Art Trade Act. Of course, we support effective species conservation. If you think that thousands of species of animals and plants are at risk, you have to say that it is more necessary than ever. This is an important instrument for the adoption of the law on the trafficking of species, which we are going to adopt today. The WWF estimates that illegal trade in exotic animals and plants is a billion-dollar business similar to drug trafficking. According to an estimate by the WWF, the international species smuggler loses €5 to €8 million a year. Popular Hehlerware are mainly living big parrots from South America or reptiles from all over the world. The profit margins achieved are sufficient for illegal trafficking in drugs and weapons. It's not surprising, either, if the species smuggles. Unfortunately, there are too many careless people who take away a special souvenir from their country of vacation, even if this is forbidden. It is precisely here that we must insist on the fact that after the Schengen border is removed, customs authorities can implement the Art Trade Act within the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! What is particularly dear to me is the fact that the economic use of animals and plants also destroys their habitat. I have already pointed out in the Committee that there is a need for targeted education in the area of domestic or foreign forests – I am thinking of the clearing of many forests in the South American region. A lot of money is spent on the various campaigns, And I think it would also be very important to launch an information campaign on species protection in the animal and plant life. Because laws are one thing, but at least just as important it is that people in their everyday lives get the necessary sensitivity to this issue. As this issue is very important to us, we will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17801	No one is reporting on this. . I would ask the honourable Members to go to their places, otherwise it is always very difficult to vote. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1115 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also done unanimously, and the draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:22:33]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1146, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Basic Law 1951 on the treatment of forest and pasture use rights and special field services (1179, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17856	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As First of all, Mr Wimmer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17884	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This proposal, which we have to deal with today, is an amendment to the removal of forest and pasture rights, because the Constitutional Court of Justice has, as it has been known, abolished the previous regulation, since it was unconstitutional. In the future, the proceeds of rights of use will be used by delegating the reason for the transport value. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really a huge problem, a huge problem for the farmers concerned and for the beneficiaries. I absolutely do not understand the EIA here, namely that it will be obliged and voted in favour of this proposal, as its clients, especially the small farmers, are mainly affected. Of course it is true that the forest owners, especially the large forest owners, laugh a little bit in the fist; it is not bad if the service becomes a little cheaper in the future. But for many small farmers who have a right of forest, it is an obvious disadvantage. We Socialists voted in favour of this proposal in committee, because we thought that the amendment would detract this situation. We now know, however, that the amendment does not detract this situation. That is why we will not vote in favour of this bill. I will also give you a statement of reasons for this. Ladies and gentlemen! The Salzkammergut – from there I come – is a core zone of the Federal Forest and is heavily affected by this measure. There are 2 800 legal persons in our area; 16 000 are all over Austria, and in our area, in the Salzkammergut, alone 2 800. I say quite openly here: They will be very grateful to you if you implement this law in this form today, because you are massively cutting into the right of property! I was at many meetings where this problem was discussed. I was told a lot there, above all things from people who really don't belong to my couleur, you can believe that. An example: If a farmer in the old system has been replaced with 20 meters of wood, it was so that he got about 2, 3, 4 or even up to 6 hectares of soil and soil. If this law is passed today, it will not even get a hectare for 20 space meters of firewood. This, ladies and gentlemen, actually comes close to cold expropriation! That is not fair or fair. That is why I am committed to the fact that today perhaps another possibility will be found, since I do not assume that you really want it. I also understand that farmers and farmers, especially small farmers, are rising to barricades in this context, because this is really an unfair measure. This means that another disc is cut off from the life assurance of the small farms. And then we wonder when 4 300 businesses lock and “make dense ” each year? . The Green Report clearly shows it. Unfortunately, we cannot debate this today because it has been rejected by you that we are talking about agriculture in plenary. I'm sorry. However, small businesses in particular are affected by the fact that there are secondary jobs, mining plants that have to give up. Here, too, it must be clearly stated that it really is a failure in support policy. We know where the promotions are going: exactly where we really need them! That is why I believe that the policy you are doing here is simply the wrong way. Finally, I should like to say quite clearly: Perhaps there is still a possibility today that we will discuss a modified legal situation together and think about it again. I'm allowed to say from this point of view... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I understand, Mr President, it hurts you. [[Abg. Grill: That the miners give up...!]] But go out to your people, go out and talk to them! They probably no longer trust in these congregations. Ladies and gentlemen! I say that we Social Democrats are on the side of the weaker. We are here on the side of the forests and will fight for these people, who are now losing their right by your decision, to return to their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17932	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17954	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wimmer is right in one point, namely that the right of inquiry for the persons concerned, for the farmers, is a very important basis for the future. We do not make this amendment of § 17 of the Law voluntary, but we make it because the Constitutional Court has established in a sense that this section must be amended. What we contribute to this is included in my amendment, together with colleagues Scheuch, that at the same time the corresponding § 22 is amended, that administrative simplification, debureaucratisation and the strengthening of the disposition potential of the authorised persons are also affected by their rights of use in Sections 3, 4, 5 and 8 and that the subject of supplementary regulations is also addressed. I would like to take advantage of the two minutes that remain for me to say something about the history, the history of the origin and the meaning of these rights of inquiry. In 1848, the end of the subject relationship came after the imperial basic relief patent of 7. ==References== On 1 March 1849, it was necessary to replace the rights of use on a fee basis. A small part was actually replaced in money, but most of the rights were paid by land and land. The individual farmers were granted as much land and land as could be covered by the sustainable use of the increase in annual needs. Agricultural communities were formed, but mainly they were transferred to the individual property of the persons entitled to them, and in some areas property rights were also attributed to the municipalities. In many cases, however, it was not possible to agree on the profitability of the redeeming area. In these cases, the right has been regulated quantitatively and has been credited to the person entitled for permanent periods. By this step to recognise the existing forest and pasture rights for permanent use, Emperor Franz Joseph at the time wanted to use the imperial patent of the 5th century. On July 1, 1853, the farmer's status was secured in his economic existence, and this was securitised in a document. It was securitised that the rights were used in 101 even if they had not been used for 100 years. Year of use, even if not registered in the land register. For this reason, I believe that these are not mere rights of use, but that they mean a kind of co-owner partnership for the individual entitled person. From my point of view, the entitled persons should be regarded as such, and the rights of use are still an essential contribution to the safeguarding of agricultural existences today. This also underlines the importance of this law today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e17994	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18015	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eßl, you are quite right: This is based on basic questions relating to rural reform in Austria. You mentioned the Imperial Patent of 1853. But let's also look at the time before that a little bit: Why did this regulation come into existence at the time? There is a expropriation of farmers in the 16th and 17th centuries. 19th century! You have to go back that far. At that time, the state authorities, especially in Salzburg, acquired the old municipal areas, the community pastures and the municipal forest. It is thus a long history of law, injustice and resistance, and so it is an emotionally very strained story for those people and families who live in this tradition. I'll give you all the right. After all, there are 16,000 to 17,000 affected. But, Mr Eßl, the solution to this problem has unfortunately, I believe, failed. Although we have agreed to the proposal in committee, I must say to you, after further examination, that: The Constitutional Court has clearly said that it is right to take into account, in addition to the yield value, these values beyond. He said that. He speaks exclusively of the fact that § 17 is not constitutional, anything else would be constitutional. - That's one point. It is also interesting who brought the complaint to the Constitutional Court: It was the Austrian Federal Forest AG. That means, in fact, the owner, the Republic of Austria, or your representatives there, has made the complaint to the Federal Forest's rights to the forested... [[Abg. May. Molterer: No, not your representative!]] Please? [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's just wrong! You don't know what an AG is and don't know the business structure!]] Look, Austrian Federal Forest AG is 100% owned by the Republic, Mr. Molterer! 100% owned by the Austrian Republic – so what is that supposed to do? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the owner here, namely the Republic of Austria, makes a complaint against the Austrian farmers before the Constitutional Court, this is at least a very, very exciting matter. You shouldn't forget that. More specific occasion is a Salzburg farmer in Stühlfelden, Ober- und Unterbichlgut, who has been fighting for decades for a defeat of land and soil for a defeat of his servituts rights. This has taken 25 or 30 years, I have been told; I suppose Mr Eßl will confirm it to me. I also have to say that I understand some of the points of your amendment, they are comprehensible to me, namely that servitut rights can also be passed on between farmers. This is a measure I would like to welcome. But, Mr Eßl, I am now at the heart of our criticism. Look Please accept the opinion of the State of Salzburg! In its opinion, the country of Salzburg says quite precisely: § 17, as it is now present, does not conform to the nature and principles of the right of inquiry. – He does not live up to it, because it is precisely what you have mentioned that these “virtual” property rights are not sufficiently taken into account, under quotation marks. About the change in § 22 She said: But now it is taken into account. That is why I shall read this to you once again: ‘In determining the value of the right of use, it is appropriate to take into account, where appropriate, the criteria for determining the value of the right of use, where appropriate, the criteria which differ from the criterion of profitability.’ But, please, how this value is set, what criteria and what formal conditions are used, that does not describe all your templates. This means that there is the legitimate criticism that Mr Wimmer has made: that the transport value is usually used. The transport value, we both know, is a multiple of the use or yield value of this area, this forest. The problem is, you should have done this, you should have thought about it. I call you a proposal: One way to regulate this would be to ban the sale of such a basic transfer – there you can discuss how long it takes for other agricultural operations – in order to prevent speculation gains and similar things, but still to make a significant contribution in order to strengthen agricultural holdings in these regions. Unfortunately, we will not be able to agree to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18073	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18095	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! Every now and then I find it fascinating: The Committee clearly agreed with all the parties. This was celebrated as a great consensus in the Committee, and everyone was convinced to have done something good here. You have to say that quite honestly. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I explained that!]] No, you didn't explain. It is not understandable that within a few days one will change one's opinion by 180 degrees, because, if we are honest, a law has to be made here because there is a VfGH decision. As to whether this VfGH decision is to be regarded as positive or negative for the forested and on the other hand for the property owners, there are different views, which is quite clear. I also missed your opinion in the committee, but there we said unisono: It's actually a good thing. Now we come to the core of the whole story. Of course, this law primarily means the repair as it provides for the VfGH; we do. And of course you can interpret it this way: Because those rights of use – whether they are used for wood, pasture use or other servitute – are now no longer replaced in the single value or no longer in the value of use, but, more importantly, in the transport value, this means that the person gets less hectares. But if you speak of the great justice – and it should apply on both sides – it is still fair! Because it's like this: If today I rate my additional or my wooden use rights with €5,000 or €10,000 and have so far had the opportunity to get paid in money or in the form of land, then I must say fairly that it is these hectares that I get in return, so and so much worth. What you want here is contrary to the real, real value of what I have to get. Of course, the right of use is also clearly assessed in monetary units, and it is also clearly assessed that my rights of inquiry are worth x €; and for x €, I have the right to get equal value in terms of land and land, and not for rights of use. That is why I say that a repair has been made here. I think it is important to see that we have not only inforestations, which one must explain that in the case of a division they now get theoretically fewer hectares, but also land owners, and the land owners also have to represent here, whether a two hectares or, like the Federal Forest, hundreds of thousands of hectares. Small property owners also have “Servitutlers” on their land and land, and they also have the right to a fair compensation between the forested and the land owners. We will, of course, also keep our agreement on the Committee's terms of reference and we will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18131	The next speaker was Mr Keussnigg. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18153	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pirklhuber! We will probably have to determine the proceeds here in the House regardless of the owner. We have many wishes to the Austrian Federal Forest, only: Don't expect any gifts in that sense. It would be nice, but it won't be very serious. On the subject itself: In many parts of our country, we have historically grown, very complex ownership, use and legal relations in the agricultural and forestry sectors, which often also oppose rational, efficient management. It is therefore extremely important to create fair conditions for unbundling where this is desired, where this is possible, where this is feasible. This new law responds to a Constitutional Court knowledge requiring the inclusion of the transport value in the determination of the amount of redemption, in which proceeds in real estates. In order to maintain fairness, however, this novelle also provides that the current traffic value should also be determined for the right to use and not only the objective yield value. It is therefore very important that this parity is produced because it promotes the development of certain ownership and use conditions, and that is good for the forest, which is good for the environment and that is good for the farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18183	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1179 of the Supplements. – First of all, I would like to ask the club secretary to leave the hall. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:42:49]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 696/A (E) by Mr Heidemarie Rest-Hinterseer, colleagues on Austrian position on WTO negotiations in the field of agricultural trade (1178, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18240	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. Mr Grillitsch is the first to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18271	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The WTO negotiations are under way. The next round will take place in Hong Kong at the beginning of December. I think it is our duty in this House – and this is what we have held in the Committee on Agriculture – to discuss in detail the consequences and consequences of these WTO negotiations and, from an Austrian point of view, to position ourselves clearly within the EU for these WTO negotiations. There are great challenges here and three main cracks for the agricultural structures, but also for the consumer's requirements for a farm, for safe food production, for environmentally and animal-friendly production. First cracking point: export support, second cracking point: internal support, and third cracking point: What will market access look like in the future? Whether we want to or not, we have to ask ourselves whether we want to put Europe's food autonomy into the responsibility of leaders who do not grant their own social standards to child labour, allow child slavery, pay the wages of € 2 per day, allow ecological robbery to be done by nature, and see how their own people are starving, just to achieve foreign exchange. I don't want to leave this in the room like that, but I also want to give examples: One example of a liberalised area in agricultural products is coffee and cocoa. There are no more peasant structures there. The purchase price for consumers has not fallen, the farmers are impoverished, and the profits are now clearing up international corporations. Even more dramatic is the situation in the meat sector, where, without environmental hygiene, without controlled feed and other standards, meat is produced and imported at lowest prices. That's what's pressing on our price level. In concrete terms, for example, Brazilian fillet is offered around €7 000 per tonne on the European market. We know that the EU price is currently €16 000 per tonne, i.e. the double of the price at which it is offered by Brazil. This means that without import duties, without any support, we are no longer using the low-cost The Commission will be able to compete with the Member States. All the more important it is now to highlight these consequences, ladies and gentlemen. We require the EU to have a clear position in the WTO negotiations. I am glad that Austria will participate in the negotiations in Hong Kong with Minister Pröll and Minister Bartenstein, because it is a question of not sacrificing European farmers on the altar of unrestricted world trade. In this context, we have also launched an action which I invite you to support. Together with the Bishops' Conference, together with the Society for Development Assistance, together with the President's Conference of the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture and the Austrian Farmers' Federation, we show the consequences of this unrestricted world trade, and I ask you: Support this! The material is located outside in the congregations, in the parish. Help! I am very pleased that the Committee on Agriculture has succeeded in submitting a four-party proposal in order to ensure the European agricultural model in the WTO negotiations, with a view to promoting social standards, environmental standards, animal welfare standards and anti-restrictive world trade.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18316	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sad to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18337	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I should also like to welcome this joint resolution on behalf of the SPÖ. The way there was no easier, but he was a more successful one. This is a clear will of the House for these WTO negotiations in Hong Kong. Ladies and gentlemen! We expect that this motion for a resolution will not only find positive words in Austria but will also become a matter of action in Brussels. This should be addressed in particular to the address of Mr Bartenstein, because I believe that the vote is not yet quite clear, especially if one takes note of the divergent views of Mr Schwarzböck. We confess that we want to give the poorest countries a chance. We acknowledge the need to enable them to combat hunger in the world by their own strength, but we also acknowledge that our agriculture must remain an opportunity in all its diversity. One level is the international, the other the national. The latter, in our view, is not optimal for the use of our scope for action. The Green Report, the Bible of Agriculture, a very, very beautiful work that the ÖVP unfortunately abstained from the House, the Assembly, gives us clear statements on certain facts: In 2003, there are 27 100 farms less than 1999. You had to lock up. Mostly, by 21 percent, there was a drop in the number of secondary employment firms, whose number had fallen by one-fifth. Our support policy therefore meets small-scale agriculture, and that is no wonder, Minister of State, if you continue to stick to the area subsidy. About direct payments, the Green Report tells us that 3 per cent of farms receive 16 per cent of the funding, although they only work 15 per cent of the area. 31 percent of businesses have to reach 5 percent – they work 9 percent of the area. Not even this promotion is just! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Again the old speech!]] And so, Minister of State, it is important that small Austrian businesses have an hourly wage of less than €3, Mrs Collaborative, and should live on it. They're being forced to give up. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you finally find yourself ready to subsidize the work and not the area!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18374	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18395	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kummerer, two introductory remarks. If I look at the series of seats and if we count exactly, I am not sure whether we in the Committee have had no more public in this discussion than here in plenary, whether not at least many Members have been present but in all cases more interested than is the case at present. [[Abg. I'm sorry: Objection!]] We have held this discussion very often. I also have to report that Mr Gradwelt did not tell me the truth in his remarks on the committee when he told me that we had rejected in the presidential that committees were being discussed again. My clubman told me that was not the theme of the presidential. Maybe you can figure this out. Otherwise, you would have said in committee what I do not want to suggest to you, but at least you have expressed this opinion there. Mr Kummerer, the second thing, a small comparison: Every time a representative of the SPÖ turns out here and explains that the big farmers – that is, from the hectares – would get a lot of money, the small farmers would have little money and that would be unfair, because both would have to work. – That’s how the whole world is unfair! A little... Yes, Mr. Kummerer, I have him here too! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. The report will be kept up-to-date with grief.]] That's a good work. Thank you for that later. Mr Kummerer, a small official, a parliamentary staff member of the Parliamentary Directorate – hard-working people! – gets perhaps 2 000, 2 500 € per month. As a Member of Parliament – just like me – you get €7 500 a month! Maybe that's unfair, too. Maybe they work more than we do! That's unfair, too. It is true that there are, unfortunately, certain basic conditions. There are farmers with more and fewer hectares, and the system of support is a system of compensation, and it is paid what is so to speak less available to the farmer. And if the farmer used to get 3 S or 3.50 S for 500 tonnes of cereals and now he only gets more than 15 cents, then that's a escape – and he's balanced. Nevertheless, from your point of view, unfortunately, or from our point of view, thank God, not everyone in Austria gets the same amount. That's right! This may be a fundamental injustice. Explain to the perhaps 100, 150 Members of Parliament why they get only a third of what we get for their work here! Both of us just work, we're both here in the state service, and yet we get three times as much. – This may be at least as unfair as the fact that the farmer receives more funding with 50 hectares than the farmer with 2 hectares. My following speakers will comment on the WTO negotiations and on the four-party request. Of course, we have also said very positively here that there is a four-party request that the line be given here. I am also very pleased that what Mr Kummerer said is that it will be important for the ministers responsible for the negotiations at European level and also for the European negotiators at the WTO flag level to continue to be tough on this issue, because if you are too long-lasting, that will probably be a sustainable problem for our agriculture. Green report: I would also like to say a few words on the Green Report, because even if it was finished in committee, I would like to use the platform to thank you. This has not yet been done by my previous speakers; I will now do it first. I would also like to thank you once again for this: a good contract, 320 pages of information, well divided, well built. So I mean, that's where the Ministry does all the work. Mr Federal Minister, thank you very much for this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Others have worked on it!]] After deputy! I cannot say thank you to everyone that this would go beyond the scope of my speaking time. However, we have already said in committee that this is, of course, very double-edged, because, in reality, the report provides us with a lot of controversial information for the discussions at the ordinary tables, in the chambers. There's a lot to complain about. Mr Kummerer said: There are 27 000 farms less – that is not a question, that is a dramatic development. This is mainly precisely the case with these secondary jobs, but these are very many additional jobs that are being lost to us. My particular interest in this Green Report is in the forestry sector, because I am still convinced that the forestry sector has too little importance. If you look at 90 percent of domestic wood production being refined domestically, if you look at what's being secured in jobs, what's being finished on material, then I think that's really a very special value. But if you see on the other hand that we import 9 million cubic meters of wood every year – now we know the boundaries are open, that's not that simple anymore, we can't limit it – then I mean we're required. 31 million stock-fix meters increase, 19 million stock-fix meters use, which means at least 12 million stock-fix meters more growth than use – that is once more than what we are importing anyway. In other words, even if we were to use all the 9 million we import, 3 million stock meters would be more of an increase we are using. Ladies and gentlemen! Here we are called on to become an initiative, here we are called upon, especially in view of the discussion on the increasing journey of rescuing, around rising energy prices, to add additional measures, to add additional resources from the budget here. It is not enough for us to think only about ethanol, about biosprit and the like, even here we need action! I think that's our biggest chance in the future. That's where we need to work better. It doesn't work the way we want it to. Agriculture is also too high in the chambers outside the federal states in relation to the forestry sector. That must be changed! Mr. Federal Minister, a clear appeal to you to ensure that the wood industry, the forestry industry – especially the agricultural forestry – is given more input, more innovation and more direct and indirect help. Otherwise another final appeal to take out from the discussion, which farmer a lot, which farmer gets little. I am convinced that every euro that flows into agriculture, whether in large farms or small farms, is a well-invested euro.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18456	The next item is Mrs Rester-Hintersieer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18478	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Right at the beginning, I have to contradict colleagues Scheuch: It's not that it doesn't matter if a big or small one is, but that's exactly the jumping point. In this area, there has also been a paradigm change at the EIA in the preparation of the WTO negotiations for agricultural position. I'm very happy. Earlier – ten, 15 years ago – we heard very often from farmers' representatives in the Austrian agricultural opposition, in which I have worked for a long time: What about life in the poor countries? We can't do that! That is unfortunate, but we cannot change anything about it. We can donate at most, and we can ease the need a little bit. – It was not recognised that there is a direct link between agriculture in the countries of the south and agriculture in the industrialized countries. There's been a change in the position. And how did this come? This, as has been so often the case in the political debate, has come through an actual personal concern. It is related to the change in the sugar market regulation, and this change made it clear to sugar farmers at one time that they depend directly on it – so to speak, as people are living on it – in the negotiations on what form support should be paid in the future and how something can change. Suddenly, Austrian sugar farmers were interested in the situation of agricultural workers in Brazil and pointed out the catastrophic conditions where farmers must live. This was not what she used to be interested in – but that is not relevant to me now. They have begun to be interested in this, and it has therefore been possible that a green request has become a four-party request and that an agreement on the WTO negotiations could be reached. These are three stories that are absolutely relevant to me. One is that we have to deal with the destruction of export subsidies that are distorting trade for developing countries, in view, not at some point. What does that mean? – We cannot subsidize and sell to the countries of the south and ruin markets there. We've known that for a long time, now it's official. The second central requirement is that fair trade should be strengthened. Already at the last ministerial meetings in Cancún, then chief negotiator Lamy, current WTO general director, has already held a major event on fair trade starting with the WTO negotiations. At that time it was still said that it was a little bit of eye-removing. In the meantime, we are also saying in our four-party proposal: Fair trade and non-free trade – this is the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why is that so? – Looking back, looking at the data – free trade has begun very strongly in the late 1980s; José Manuel Barroso has recently explained this – then it can be seen that Africa's share of global trade fell from 6 percent in 1980 to 2% in 2002. That is to say, the countries of the south have almost no share in this glorious development, at least as far as Africa is concerned. If we look at the World Bank's calculations of agricultural trade, three quarters of the benefits will benefit the industrialized countries and a quarter of the developing countries. So, obviously, free trade cannot produce for all these benefits, which are attributed to it. I therefore come to a third concept which is absolutely relevant to us and which is also redefined in the political debate, which is the concept of food sovereignty. Many people believe that this is something like a self-sufficiency, that is, the farm that you yourself have in shape, the carrots you can draw yourself, and the fruit you buy from the neighboring farmer. But it's a lot more far-reaching. Food sovereignty describes the possibility of producing food itself for all countries, for all peoples, for all the countries that have their own culture. Many say at this moment: No, no, no, no, Why aren't they supposed to be able to create it themselves? This has a lot to do with the WTO regime. If the USA sells rice at much cheaper conditions and lower consumer prices than Japan, for example, and with these prices going on the Japanese market, the US will ruin the Japanese rice market. This can happen because the WTO has so to speak declared free trade an absolute sanctuary. In this case, we say: All countries in this world should be able to produce food, food and food for themselves, and no WTO regime in this world can prevent them from doing so. The main objective of the agricultural market is to be a regional market, which should also be a south-south market, the import of agricultural products or the export of agricultural products to the industrialized countries should be the exception. So it's going to be between 13 and 18 years old. The sixth WTO Ministerial Conference will take place on December 6. No world will likely be changed there. There is great doubt as to whether there will be a degree at all. This has not only to do with agriculture, but also has to do with issues such as access to the market for industrial products, services and new rules for trade facilitation. We will not change the world there, but we have jointly decided on a motion for a resolution which represents a very remarkable back in the direction of fair and fair trade between the peoples and nations.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18545	Mr Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18566	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In these days and weeks, the question of the WTO development round goes into a very crucial phase, both in the preparation of the various negotiating blocks, including in Europe, as well as in the issue of the increase: Can there be any results in Hong Kong at all, or can there be progress in detail topics at best? That is why I very much welcome the fact that the National Council has taken a very strong and clear position here with a four-party request on the question: What signal is Austria giving, what is Europe supposed to give in the negotiations that are now taking place in the important phase? In the past, in recent weeks and months, we have seen very much concern and very closely how far the Commission is ready to go within its mandate in Europe. Peter Mandelson has indicated a number of times the willingness to negotiate, including the reduction of compensatory payments for European farmers, on the reduction of export refunds, on market access. From my point of view and from the point of view, one has, in any case, gone very sharply to the limits of the mandate, if one has not even crossed it in detail. We, the 14 Agriculture Ministers, have therefore given a clear signal and Peter Mandelson has also made it clear to the General Affairs Council, which has been specifically called upon to give its views on the key issues that Europe's agriculture will affect in the future. What are these questions that we have to define as key points in order to continue to enable rural, sustainable, eco-social agriculture in Europe? On the one hand, this is the question of securing the 2003 CAP reform. We have made this reform very clear in Europe with regard to the WTO negotiations. This was about decoupled premiums, which are difficult to implement and under major challenges in Europe, but which in 2003 were a clear answer to the question of the reduction requirement of compensation payments. This CAP reform must take place. Peter Mandelson has already emphasized this several times in recent weeks. That's good and important. The second point is the question of export support. It is true that we have different topics and types of export support in the various blocks worldwide. We have the export refund in Europe, the Americans have export credits. Yes, Europe can – from my point of view and from our point of view – signal willingness: Reduction of these export refunds, however only if full parallelity is given, reduce all export refunds worldwide and all different systems to the same extent. But now that some, led by America in particular, are going to reduce the European export refund unilaterally, but not to reduce the export refunds hidden in their own economic systems through loans and other food aid, developing countries are not helping, as is the goal of the development round, and are one-sided in European agriculture. And that may not be a way to negotiate wisely and purposefully. The third point, ladies and gentlemen, is the question of market entry. Here again, Europe has made a new proposal with an average rate of 38.5% reduction in customs duties with four customs bands. In addition to this proposal, I do not think it is possible to go any further because this would be a one-sided return to European agricultural markets at the expense of European farmers. Here too, there is a need for caution, and I believe that a clear answer has now been given with the Commission's commitment. We are ready to set signals, to set very clear signals for the poorest in the world. However, these signals must not harm Europe unilaterally, they must, above all, help those who are really the poorest countries in the world, i.e. those who, as mentioned in the sugar market regulation, are emerging countries such as Brazil, where large-scale land owners operate on very large areas, without ecological, without social respect for the nature of production. That can't be our goal. That is why it is cautious, clearly structured, to go into these negotiations with a clear European position. Since you mentioned the vote in Austria a few times – Mr Kummerer has done so: It is assumed that the negotiator for Austria, Martin Bartenstein, and I, and very closely, are very closely in line with this question that we have voted on every position and are acting together in Europe, because it is not about the position of Austria in Europe, but about the strength of Europe in the forthcoming WTO negotiations in Hong Kong, which shows with this model of another European model of life, which has shown sustainability and eco-social ways. That is the point, and we are going very closely in line with a clear position. The fourth point, ladies and gentlemen, which is still to underline this path, is also the question: How to deal with regional-typical products, how to deal with non-trade groups in the WTO anchoring, as with ecological, with animal protection standards? We want to bring all these questions to Hong Kong again and discuss them again. In this way, today's four-party application is an important common signal. This is good for negotiating, which is an important means of proving strength. In conclusion: What I regret is the fact that in the field of WTO preparations worldwide in the discussions – Lamy has already said that – agriculture alone is at the centre of the debate. Agriculture is a subject to be regulated and where we should find common rules worldwide, but elsewhere Europe has offensive concerns, such as services, industrial goods. And there's nothing going on with the negotiators at all. If Hong Kong fails, it will not fail in the open questions of agriculture, then it will fail in areas where there has been nothing at all for years, months and weeks, exactly where Europe has offensive interests. Exciting negotiations are underway in Hong Kong in mid-December. Martin Bartenstein and I are glad that we can go into these negotiations with a four-party request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18608	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18629	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, as someone who has been here in the House for some time, I should also like to say that it was a pleasure to experience once again, as in the last Committee on Agriculture, that if all political groups take a step together, it is also possible to make a common request. In this respect, I should like to thank Mrs Rester-Hintersiere and colleagues Gradwelt, as well as colleagues Wittauer, especially our colleague, Mr Mag. Mickel, as well as Mrs. Dipl.-Ing. Klauser from the Ministry and the staff also from the other political groups, who have been really advised by us here, express my particular thanks. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My group is also grateful for the Green Report because it is really an excellent document. However, it does not only thank the officials of the house and, above all, those from the ministry, but also those farms, the farmers who provide the facts and data, for there is also a need for appropriate work on the ground, so that ultimately the raw material is available as a base. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of WTO. Once upon a time, there was the headline: Can it be a little more? Now you had the feeling, it was about: Who offers more in taking back commitments? It would be very interesting to look at that, and I really recommend everyone to read it, namely the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” of 9. October. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper page up to date]] As far as Africa is concerned, there are possibilities and needs. It is clearly stated here that it is not just the reduction of customs duties and these things to allow fair trade instead of one, as Mrs Rest-Hinterseer rightly said, to allow free trade. It is, I believe, a very wise statement from her, for one thing has already been held: What America has offered here in part under the title “Degradation of agricultural subsidies” is already very interesting. If this means direct inflows of funds to farmers, Mr Kummerer, then the US proposal is nothing but cheap rhetoric, because I can already point out that America is supporting the 25 000 Cotton farmers, i.e. cotton farmers, with an incredible 3.1 billion € per year and thus contributing to the fact that millions of farmers in Africa are hungry and hungry. No one in this country America is concerned about this, but in Europe, which we – especially in Austria – have a small structured agriculture, one would like to signal that export support would have to be reduced, while our own export credits, food aid and so on under the title Farm Bill are still increased, extended and guaranteed by 2011. It is therefore really necessary to actually discuss fair trade instead of free trade, but if, then, to highlight all aspects.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18681	The next speaker was Mrs Walther. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18702	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would also like to comment on the Green Report. It is really an excellent report, and it belongs to the House debated. We have found this in the Committee again and again, and I would like to say it again here in the House because it contains a lot of information. Most of our colleagues here in the High House come from rural areas and are thus better able to see how the population is – and that in the rural areas is also made up of rural people, but above all from working people who no longer belong to the peasantry – and they can see how the development is going. This work is really worth being read, interpreted and discussed. Next, to the WTO negotiations. I also believe that it is now really time to do something, and I am very glad that, on the initiative of Mrs Rester-Hinterseer, on the initiative of Mrs Rester-Hinterseer, it has come to such a request on our part, a four-party request that simply determines how the negotiations are to take place and how to take the third world properly into account. I believe that a number of things have been successful, but I would like to point out – the Federal Minister has already mentioned this in his speech – that Peter Mandelson has brought in a lot and has also been able to set himself on a standard that is compatible with both the European countries and the Third World, but of course it is still true that the standard that is reflected in our four-party request is also respected. It seems to me that Mr Bartenstein has very different approaches here. [[Abg. Oillingers: It seems to me like that!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: How do you get on it?]] Let me quote a few article headings: Bartenstein: Austria benefits from liberal world trade. – Bartenstein: Understanding globalisation as an opportunity. – Bartenstein: The WTO train is on track. – Bartenstein: The WTO round must not fail in agriculture. – Bartenstein: The key role of agriculture in WTO negotiations is not pleased. [[Abg. Oellinger: Did you not know that, Mr. Minister?]] On this point, I wish you – and you have also demonstrated it with the support of the four-party proposal – a lot of strength and conviction towards your fellow ministers. [[Abg. Oils: neck and leg fracture!]] I come to the conclusion: I believe that we are on the right path in the Committee on Agriculture, and I would like and have already said in the Committee that we are doing a fair trade day together in the High House, where we invite the various producers from other countries, but also the producers from Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18778	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. – Ladies and gentlemen, you did not indicate a voluntary limit on speaking time. That means I'll set the clock for you at 20 minutes. [[Abg. Oillinger: He has an involuntary time limit!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 3 minutes!]] Three minutes, okay.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18828	Madam President. Minister! I don't want to overload the High House with what I have to say. It is pleasant to talk about something that all four parties have worked together to give a common position to the Minister. It has been sought that it is also in line with the European objectives – and I must say that Mr Pirklhuber has significantly cooperated with them. That means: The difference between developing countries and us is that we have a very multi-layered agriculture, a small structure. However, there are also differences in environmental measures and other areas. In the developing countries – and that is what it is – the basis of life is quite different. We want to maintain and, of course, have a problem in many areas. EU unilateral measures have led to a competitive disadvantage for Europe. It has been said before that America is taking a differentiated path that we do not wish for. Our objective must be to work in accordance with all other industrialised countries and to put on the lever where subsidies and export promotions are paid. We want to work together to give developing countries an opportunity to develop their own livelihoods in the context of domestic agriculture. We know that 1.2 billion people live there, many are also affected by poverty, and agriculture is only a small part. I am also glad that Mrs Walther has quoted Mr Bartenstein and, in view of the fact that we have given Minister Pröll something on the way, we have kept something in place so that what the Minister of Economic Affairs may want can not be fully implemented. [[Abg. Oils: Not at all!]] I hope that we can talk to Hong Kong about a successful end to the negotiations, and I am already pleased about the reporting of Minister Pröll.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18865	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18886	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, Mr Auer rightly mentioned the really constructive climate in the Committee or the preliminary work. I think that this is also good and important to point out, and I would also like to thank him at this point for the partly important receipt on very central points. I believe that the clear commitment that agricultural export subsidies are distorting competition and dumping will have led to debates in your circles and will lead to further discussions. Dumping means destroying agricultural jobs. And this admission and confession that we must make the agricultural export subsidies in the interests of Austrian agriculture, in the interests of small farmers worldwide, is an important step. There are certain differences in the way in which this must be done quickly. In our original request, we wanted export refunds to expire by 2010 in accordance with a binding timetable. This will be further discussed at European level, Minister of State, and there you are required. There would be and is then very relevant what timetables you propose, because the Commission wants a timetable. It would be very interesting if you could comment on this again. But I would like to return to what my colleague Rester-Hinterseer said very clearly: It is about this rhetorical concept of the NGOs in the discussions on the WTO question, namely the concept of food sovereignty. This has become a consensus with our four-party proposal, which has not been mentioned as a footnote anywhere after a civil society discussion in this application, but has become a central orientation for future orientation in food policy. I really think this is a paradigm change, which brings together many elements of the last decades and makes them visible in one term. This is also an opportunity to make a positive international agricultural policy in the future, Mr Federal Minister! It's about the following: If we seriously want to halve hunger by 2015, just as the UN proposes, as we all want to do – if it goes, even faster – then it will only work if we strengthen the regional markets in Africa, the regional markets in the developing countries with models of rural development, with diversification, as we know in part from our positive experience with European Union programmes. I think that is a central point. One thing that was also undisputed and thank God is the strengthening of democracy within the WTO. The public, parliaments, non-governmental organisations, from consumer protection to development organisations, must be involved. The core of the message is, ecological and social criteria are the must of the future. There remains, of course, a massive conflict of interest, including within the European Union. That is why this close-up is so necessary, because this economic policy debate can also be conducted here at home, in Austria, in the European Union. We have social dumping in the Union every day. Her last tax reform was a practical example of social dumping. If you provide tax advantages for companies and where these companies pay taxes, this competition will continue, at the end of which there will be precarious employment conditions, Minister of State. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Write in immediately, big companies don't pay taxes!]] I believe that we must continue to discuss this, that is not the end of the flag rod, because food sovereignty is such an essential right as it is also social minimum standards, environmental protection and sustainable production. This must not only be carried out by the European Union as a star of light in the negotiations, but it must also be a guide to our own action, otherwise, Minister of State, we will not be able to resist the argument of the developing countries and other states, namely that we only want to create trade-distorting barriers, only to distort competition and to conceal our own interests. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would ask you to be active in this sense and not just to have an eye on agriculture, so just as you said. It is also about defining social standards in the field of services, in other areas, especially, and I expect you to comment on them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18942	The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e18964	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian farmers are looking with concern at the WTO negotiations. This concern is justified because agriculture is an extremely sensitive area, and any change has its effects. Our farmers have been very much demanded over the past decades, for example by structural changes, but also by the 2003 CAP reform, which has already made important advances towards the WTO. Many farmers have given up the management of the farms through decisions in the past that have gone towards the liberalisation of world trade. Agriculture has been the backbone of the rural area for centuries. It is the cornerstone of the country's cultural tradition and is an indispensable one. is a part of the economy as a whole in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Around 500 000 people in Austria find a job. Thus, WTO decisions affect not only farmers, but the whole rural area and people there have serious problems. Of course, it is necessary to make trade agreements that promote agricultural development and employment in developing countries. Similarly, there is a need to combat the prevailing poverty, especially among the rural population. Nevertheless, we must not forget our farmers who have been delivered to the international market. They must continue to be able to sell high-quality products at a reasonable price and to produce them sustainably. It is necessary to achieve balance in export promotions. Within the EU, around two thirds of existing export refunds have been reduced over the last ten years. The United States, on the other hand, is hiding its export promotions under the cover of food aid. Nor can it be that high standards for the environment, animal welfare and food safety apply to us, and in Argentina, for example, there is no mention of this. Higher standards cause higher production costs. In order to achieve fair trade rules, these areas must be included in the WTO negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We support the strengthening of fair trade and the exploitation of farmers in developing countries. But it is also important to me to give a perspective to future generations of farmers in Austria by means of fair decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19021	The next speaker was Mr Faul. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19042	Madam President. Minister! Mr. Obmann! Dear colleague Grillitsch! I share many of the concerns you have expressed in the WTO negotiations from your point of view, I just don't understand that you are in the bigst position to complain about what we in Austria could actually do better. [[Abg. Grittisch: Everything!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: We are good in Austria anyway! That was a confirmation for our agricultural policy!]] Federal Minister! I wish you all the best in this way. I believe it is important that you can unite Europe behind you and that you achieve the weight you want in the WTO negotiations. But I do not think that the strengthening by Minister Bartenstein is going to bring about a lot of weight. They've taken a lot, and he doesn't weigh so much – that's what it's like. [[Abg. Grill: You confirm our agricultural policy!]] Dear colleague Scheuch, if, in agreement with the Federal Minister, you are again demanding these surface premiums – Mr Scheuch is not here – then you have to take your own nose. Federal Minister! They are the one who says hectares must be hectares, and hectares must also be paid hectariously. Therefore, I do not understand this discussion that you are currently having with Austrian organic farmers, because this principle, which you are calling for, should suddenly no longer apply to organic farmers. You agree with the Farmers' Federation and with the Presidential Conference. The large industry, the large farmers in Austria, must continue to support them, as you have called for today: Production of food that no one needs, fertiliser and manure production, plant protection which we cannot actually need, and, and, Mr Grillitsch, now I have to take you to the floor: You don't realize that you can't win this global contest either with these measures. What bothers me is that this modest success of the Austrian organic farmers will be taken back by you. It restricts them in their competitive possibilities. President Schwarzböck says in the “Small Newspaper” – I quote – unprofessional action, one has to support it because they are not productive, and so on. And you say that these subsidies would only compensate for these mini-results. Mr Federal Minister, what I very much criticise, although you always defend this public body, is that you are taking part in the ÖPUL's sack in favour of the agricultural industry to give the big one and take away the organic farmers. This, I believe, is not fair and is also a wrong development. This only shows me, Mr President, how powerful you are to continue your lobbyism so that your competitors can get rid of the successful organic farmers, but I do not think you will be able to prevent the success of the organic farmers in Austria that you attribute to yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19105	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19127	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The next difficult round of WTO negotiations is ahead of us. It is quite pleasant to speak to a consensus matter once, although I do not mean the whole of agriculture now, but this four-party proposal on which we have agreed. It is very important that the Austrian position is clearly identified, and it is essential and important that the EU should contribute and position itself accordingly in these negotiations. The basic foods, the so-called food sovereignty, have already been addressed. It is right that priority should be given to local production, to the regional market, and that not to the limitless and, I say so, to the often competitively distorted world market, world trade everywhere will be opened door and door. It is an obligation, as I believe, simply to be fair to the poor countries of the developed countries, the rich industrialized countries. There is a commitment to halving poverty by 2015 of the governments of this world. Ladies and gentlemen, I also know that the WTO is certainly not a development aid organisation, but what the WTO can do is simply to allow a fair and transparent and comprehensible framework for democratic, transparent, fair trade. This serves, as I believe, human rights, which serves to combat poverty, which is for the protection of the environment, which certainly also serves consumer protection, animal welfare, and above all it helps the poorest developing countries. And that this was not always the case everywhere, was also mentioned. A colleague has referred to the example of the USA and the rice, and Mr Jakob Auer has noted the problem of cotton, the export promotion of the USA. I may add additional: Two years ago, US export promotion for cotton was more important than the earnings achieved for the exported cotton. You have to imagine that! And I didn't know anything had changed. This is certainly not very helpful for the developing countries which, because of the distortion of competition, cannot, of course, sell this product on the world market, and the farmers who have to do with it are starving. Mr Federal Minister, you have mentioned that it is not quite understandable that agriculture will be so focused on these WTO negotiations, at this WTO conference. From Austria, it can be said that there are 3 per cent of the population who earn their money in the field of agriculture. In the poor developing countries, in the really poor developing countries, it is up to 80 percent that are active in agriculture, and in this respect weighting is clearly understandable to me. I think that this four-party proposal has a good signal effect, and I think it is good and right that the two ministers, in this case you, because it concerns agriculture, can go back to the negotiations with this proposal, and I wish them the best possible success. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[18:38]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19181	Ladies and gentlemen! I announce that the honourable Members are now also allowed to do so. Lunacek, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested to set up an investigative committee on illegal trade in Austrian sightings. Hiezu is also the one of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. A request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, together with a request for debate, was also made and announced by Mr Cap, colleagues. I will therefore, in agreement with the applicants, proceed in the sense of a practice practiced in these cases and hold a joint debate on this after completion of the agenda. The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19217	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of the rural area, I am very grateful for today's joint motion for a resolution on the WTO negotiations. Globalisation is not to stop, and it has its positive side. Information, knowledge, new technologies, they all wander around the globe in no time. Globalisation also raises many questions and problems: How can there be a completely different economic, social or political system? connect? We must also accept that with a policy of decommissioning, it is not possible to prevent competition from abroad. The answer to the global challenge is the small-scale, regional economy, because products grown or produced in the regions create local jobs to ensure quality of life and new demand. Global knowledge implemented regionally, that is the sustainable way of the future, I am convinced of that. Further development and innovation are only possible in a market that is liberal and allows and promotes competition, but a liberal market must guarantee a level playing field. One thing is also important: If our consumers fail to realize that the regional product may seem more expensive at first glance, but if we look at it much more closely, then the best programs will not be useful. We have to live this up to people. And this happens daily in our small and medium-sized enterprises. I also believe that policy should bring the cooperation of agriculture and the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises to the fore and present them publicly in the region. A comment on the European Union: It is probably the largest sustainability project there has ever been in history. The strong, the net payers, help the weak. Despite all the problems that exist in the EU, one can say: This path is exactly the right, namely, equal states in one with another!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19263	The next item is the report by Mr Gradwelt. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19284	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Mr Auer, you really understood today to thank all those involved, and I would like to thank Mr Pirklhuber just as I did, because your negotiating process has enabled it to be easy to take steps together, and that we have come to this four-party request. I would like us to be able to experience this in many areas of the world. Maybe you should take the lead in the negotiations more often, dear Jacob. Thank you very much! [[Congratulation and bravoring of the ÖVP as well as advocacy of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not just thanks, because some of my previous speakers have also mentioned things that cannot be left in the room. For example, the colleague Scheuch – who is unfortunately not here at the moment – spoke of the fact that the measure would be unevenly measured, and made comparisons because Mr Kummerer quoted the Green Report. I also quote the Green Report, and in this you can read it – perhaps you can tell Klaus to the Uwe; here, not apples are compared to pears, but the market fruit farms among each other – that smaller market fruit farms can gain by eight times less income and also in subsidies than the large, although the share of public funds in this area is 94 percent. If this is the expression of justice, I wonder: What access to justice do those who represent this have? – It is not our access, and our access is not the one that pays off ground rents and cow tail premiums. Mr Federal Minister, you know this, because we have also mentioned this in the Committee on the Green Report, unfortunately God. You have been sitting there for years with a truly excellent labour force study, you only have to get it out of the drawer, and this would make it easier for us in the WTO to negotiate and also give us a better position in changing the common agricultural policy, namely to stop the funding after the labour force and to put people at the centre. That alone is not your interest. Unfortunately. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is also significant, also in this discussion now: Perhaps it would really be superior for the government groups to go sometime, just like this four-party proposal, and really take one's heart to what the opposition parties suggest, without having to create any pressure – now there's a bit of pressure behind it, but that wasn't bad – that one doesn't simply defuse, delay, or otherwise fail to deal with the opposition's requests. Then we would be able to achieve reasonable results, and that would do us all good. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Qualityful!]] The Minister of State in the Committee has repeatedly said good-quality, smart words. And I think that was a wise decision. But on one point, Mr Federal Minister, I am sorry to object to you. They have said that the reform of the common agricultural policy has been implemented in Europe and that this must remain so. Now there must be an objection from Mr Klubobmann and our President-in-Office, but I can remember that there was a certain Mr Franz Fischler who put on the table proposals that were far more far-reaching than what was then decided. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Too far!]] That's what you're saying! In the Committee you said that you would have supported Mr Fischler anyway. Now you're saying that's too far-reaching. Only: If we had already implemented what Franz Fischler wanted, we would not have many problems at the WTO round today and then we would not have many injustices at European level. Only: The Federal Minister, apart from Willi Molterer, met with the French at the time and, with the French, made sure that this distribution of public funds at European level is still a subject of discussion today. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes! Thank God!]] For this, Mr Klubobmann, only you can take responsibility. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's it! I like to do that!]] You know just as well that the debate on public funds for agriculture has not yet been resolved. And that it is becoming increasingly difficult to solve that, that is also within your area of responsibility. Perhaps you should also listen a little more to the opposition, a little bit to note that rural areas are not just agriculture. Then we may be able to meet on many points and probably have very many such moments where we can make unanimous decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19376	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19397	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear High House! When we talk about agriculture, we are talking about food and food at the same time, but we are also talking about the food industry and the value added in rural areas. So we are talking about the viability of the regions we stand for. In this four-party proposal, with which we decide an Austrian position on the WTO and where we achieve at least a minimum consensus, I am pleased that the SPÖ is currently in place. Only: It should also agree, if it says A, with B and with the compensatory payments necessary to enable them to exist under these agreements. Perhaps you can point out to your clubman Gusenbauer that he should finally publicly withdraw the promotion reduction discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Why?]] It is also very interesting and enjoyable that the greens scratched the curve. I can remember that at a meeting in Brussels three years ago, I asked that Europe should not give up its right to own food supply. A Green European member of the European Parliament has spoken and has insulted me of an agricultural fascist because I have said: Let us not let ourselves be taken out of hand, no more than the independent defense! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We have been representing a quality outdoor protection for years!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (replicate) But you have long needed to do so.]] It is precisely that one can learn to do so, and I am very pleased that this House has at least come to its attention, and so I am pleased that we are so far on issues of agriculture, the food industry and also energy alternatives in Europe today that we want to defend independence in the WTO. It is necessary to be fair and sustainable. Yesterday, the competent chief officer Borchert – with us one would say: Head of Section – Ms Fischer Boel's office said that the EU is urgently fighting to defend market protection for energy alternatives in the WTO, because we will only be able to build biomass in this area if we also start to protect it, because we will only be able to continue in this way. We know that value creation in the regions is the key to our future development, and we know that much depends on it. We know that we farmers are working to ensure that our Federal Minister agrees, and I am also sure that this will defend the sustainable livelihoods of us in the WTO in Austria, not only what tastes us, but also the way we live. I wish you every success!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19474	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1178 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1178. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 155.) [[18:50:53]] 10. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (1071, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Property Act and granting the authorisation to divest unmovable federal assets (1165 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19531	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Moser. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19559	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Property Act as such is a minor problem for us. The merger of the real estate company with the BIG is also not a big problem for us. On the contrary: I would even like to stress that the Federal Property Society is really working hard in many areas. And I would also like to acknowledge that it is taking initiatives in the energy sector, but at the same time I would like to point out that these efforts in the energy saving sector should also, so to speak, be exemplaryly practised by the Federal Property Society and to a greater extent perceived. - That's one. The real reason – and this is the other one – why we will not agree to this bill is that it is also to be decided here that the current presidential villa should be removed from the list of historic buildings at the time of the high wait. Such projects, such actions or such exceptions will then take place – Mrs. Partik-Pablé, you know, there are other objects in Vienna that are also very controversial, I only express the incentive word “Klimt-Villa” – when sales actions are coming. On the basis of the fact that a restitution procedure is currently under way at the President's villa, we see no reason to put the act right now and remove this object from the list of historical buildings and transfer it to the sales list. The President's villa at the High War is not ready for sale, it is not subject to a sale, it should therefore not be removed from the list of historical buildings until the arbitral tribunal has decided whether or not a restitution takes place. This is a very simple act of recognition before the restitution procedure. This is a very simple act of recognition of the fact that the return of property is not yet decided. On that basis, at that time I see it as premature, as a speedy action to remove the presidential villa from the list of historical buildings. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot accept this whole bill. We will monitor your process critically. In the next time – perhaps already in the next week or in 14 days – the decision also comes from the arbitration court, and we would have time to make the decision in Parliament that we take the presidential villa out of the list of historical buildings. In any event, it is common for appeals to be used, and there are deadlines. In this respect, we see the action as overly urgent and as a non-recognition of the essential benefits which include restitution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19604	The next item is the report by Mr Grossruck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19625	Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President. High house! What we will decide today is another facet in the success story of the BIG, namely the authorisation to optimize the organisational structure of the BIG Group in particular for the merger of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft mbH as a acquiring company with the real estate management company of the federal government. Ladies and gentlemen, when I speak of success story, I would like to say that she has several fathers: These are, on the one hand, the acting persons, the managers, the employees in this society, and it is society itself, but on the other hand, the Federal Government of Schüssel, which has led the way in, that structural measures are possible for the federal real estate company to rise up on the market, and can also place itself in competition and prove that it understands its task. Ladies and gentlemen, a few figures: The profits in 2003 amounted to €60 million. In 2004, it was €46 million. For the year 2005, €45 million was forecast, which is at least 630 million Schilling profit in 2005. Since 1999, no less than € 2 billion or € 28 billion of schilling have been spent on general renovations and new buildings. Ladies and gentlemen, that means jobs! Investment has ensured and created jobs. For the year 2006, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft has planned an investment of €384 million – the highest in history! I also mention the university package, which was decided and which is handled through the federal real estate company. It has a volume of € 500 million or 7 billion schilling for 23 urgently needed projects. I would now like to thank the people involved: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Christoph Stadlhuber, the managing director of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, but also to his predecessor Dr. Chromy, who has initiated these reforms. I am particularly grateful for the restoration of the Borg Grieskirchen. SP Party Chairman Gusenbauer has been able to convince himself of this during his district travels in Grieskirchen. I would have like to show him the whole infrastructure there so that he can convince himself that what he says and insults in here and what he is against is not in reality. Gusenbauer lives in two different worlds, so to speak: In here he calls everything bad; the education system is bad; it does not work, claims Gusenbauer. – Outside, on the spot, he can convince himself, on the other hand, how it really is. If Mr Gusenbauer comes next time, I'd like to invite him to take him around for a day to show him all this. I hope that it will be blazed by its preparations in the federal states and perhaps even more remorseful. comes back and no longer lets go of its chimp canonades against all the achievements that are being developed in Austria. After Eugen Roth I would like to conclude: A man named Gusenbauer makes himself smarter during his journeys by all our federal states. Man returns home knowledgeably, our Austria is great, and weeps about it bitterly, that he was so wrong before.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19715	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19736	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. In principle, we agree with the amendment to the Federal Property Act, especially the three objectives contained in this Act, namely the optimization of the organisational structure, the possibility of the sale of the two properties and also the adaptation of the object data processing. Although we agree to this bill, we do not agree with the actions taken by the Minister responsible in connection with the BIG. The first criticism is that the legal assignment of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft is only very inadequately defined. The BIG can only fulfil its task of maintaining its own buildings very limited. The reason for this is that the profits generated are not fully re-invested but flow back into the budget of the Minister of Finance. However, sufficient financial resources are necessary to ensure the preservation of the federal buildings. It is therefore a legal anchoring of the reserves for maintenance and renovation, which should also be appropriate from the level. The second point is the role of Mr. Minister, who is the owner of the BIG. On the Supervisory Board of the BIG, Mr. Ernst Karl Plech, who came as a real estate agent in 2001 to the then Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer and provided the newly built property in Marxergasse. – As we all know, the courts have been removed, but there is still no re-use. The monthly rent of €210 000 is missing; the BIG has been worth €5.46 million so far. I now wonder why the Minister has observed that such an important tenant has arrived, why he has allowed the BIG Supervisory Board member Plach to become a real estate agent at BIG's expense. – That is because he says in the response to the question 2331/AB: “On the basis of the documents available to me at the time, there was no need to give up Riemergasse’s location for capacity reasons.” It would therefore be time to finally take a position on the person, whether there is a conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19787	The next item is Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19809	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will probably need a little longer than 4 minutes after Mrs Becher has been getting into historical records. Obviously, there is nothing new that it could sell as scandalous, therefore the permanent question: What does a specialist like Commercial Council Plech do in a Supervisory Board? If even colleague Moser of the Greens speaks of a positive development of the BIG and of a positive society, then a skilled man like Plach can certainly bring something there. You might want to get different images of enemies, because because someone has a broker or a house manager's profession, he can't have a professional ban. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I know – we have discussed this several times – that both areas, both Marxergasse and Riemergasse, will probably find a positive end if the sale takes place at an ordinary price. The users of the court, both those who come there as guests – witnesses, defendants, lawyers et cetera – as well as those who work there, i.e. the judges, see this overscheduling as positive in terms of the work process. To the Federal Property Society, ladies and gentlemen. This breakdown in 2000 has really created a modern structure and, above all, has led to the introduction of cost awareness among tenants and users, at the ministries, at the universities et cetera. If Mr Großruck speaks of profits in this context, if she pours them in beautiful numbers, then I would say that I do not see this as positive, because these are not profits that have been generated, but profits that have resulted from disposals and therefore do not stand for the fact that this society has worked positively or not. [[Abg. Grandruck: Redeem!]] It was now possible to sell the “filet pieces” at good prices, because the real estate houses still provide prices, of which we dreamed ten, 15 years ago, and these are substantially good buildings in best locations. But: After the sale of the “filet pieces” the bonework comes! And this bonework is now to ensure that society is managed positively. The Federal Property Society has the very difficult task of communicating between users and owners, building for a user and for a owner where there is some identity. That means to build for the owner state in such a way that the user can carry out his work there positively, but on the other hand also to build in such a way that not monuments arise, causing the costs which are in no way reasonable. This bonework is still ahead of the BIG, and therefore I am sure that this merger between the federal real estate company and the house management company is a positive thing. At the time of the establishment of this society, it was also useful to lead them into two companies, because, on the basis of the acquired employees et cetera, the structures would certainly not have worked the way they had just worked. I am pleased that this is also recognised by the Green Group, and I hope that the SPÖ will also receive this recognition. [[Abg. Eder: We agree!]] I know, Mr Eder, that you agree, I am only sorry that Mr Becher has brought into this discussion an old enemy image that has been abg’nudel for a long time. That's why I also had to deal with the fact that you can't really see it that way. However, I have also said critically that profits are not profits, but results based on special measures. I've been trying to figure this out very clearly. As far as the restitution of the presidential villa is concerned, I have no problem when we delete these two buildings, which are concerned, from the list of historical buildings. I think this thing will find a positive end, and we will not have to wait forever with the sale. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19862	Mr Doppler has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19883	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The BIG, an internationally well-respected success example for public tasks – with the priority business objective: Management of the properties of the Republic of Austria according to private economic criteria – receives a merger authorisation with the real estate management company of the federal government. In the BIG, growth, income security, increase in value as clear corporate goals are anchored and are the basis for an attractive group. Due to efficient cost management, short planning and construction times, the BIG has managed in a very short time to take full account of the cost reliability and savings concept in terms of space use. The fusion results in synergies in the area of overhead and cross-sectional functions. Of course, the efficiency benefits of the BIG also have a positive impact on the care of the federal tenants. Ladies and gentlemen, the organisational changes concerning the real estate bank are expected to be sold, and therefore there will be budget-effective revenue. These revenues will have a positive impact on the local economic and employment situation due to the follow-up investment. What is of course also very important to me as a member of the employee sector: There is no change in the planning positions, and the rights of the employees remain the same through the merger. Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, I would like to agree to the merger of this unique success story in this Republic, and I conclude my contribution with thanks to the management, the management and the employees and employees of these companies. – Keep doing good!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19920	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19944	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have one of the rare cases here that a request from the Building Committee has survived the reluctance and is discussed here in plenary. I would like to deal with the Committee itself in my contribution, with a motion for a resolution tabled by the SPÖ, which will be introduced again in today's debate. This is a motion for a resolution – and I think it is good that the Minister for the Environment is now sitting on the government bank – which has been concerned with improving energy efficiency and has simply been rejected by the government parties. It is true, as the BIG has explained to us, that in energy management a savings of 20 percent has taken place. That's to be welcomed. What does that mean? – This means a control instrument for efficiency, plant technology, thermostat control and the like; a step towards achieving the Kyoto target, but not the only one. In the area of thermal insulation, the approval of the government parties has already looked quite different. The representative of the BIG referred to: If we don't need, it's too expensive for the tenants! We know today that a thermal insulation will return after seven years at the latest, rather than after five years. There are contracting models that do not have to lead to the rental of rents. You, Minister Bartenstein, have even meant that we do not need them, there is no need. Minister Bartenstein, you were Environment Minister, you went to Kyoto with an agreed order for a reduction of 25 percent of greenhouse gases. They returned with a 13 percent reduction from Kyoto. The current Minister for the Environment believes that even this Kyoto objective can be at risk, and may not be reachable. Then, ladies and gentlemen, it will actually be expensive!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e19981	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20002	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today we decide to merge the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft with the real estate management company of the federal government. Benefits include the merger of customer care and a uniform collective agreement for employees. However, I would now like to comment on two points in the paper. First of all, it is made clear that the Alpengarten is to be attributed to this ensemble next to the Belvedere and thus remains the property of the Republic of Austria. This clarification is very important. Secondly, The Federal President's Villa Hohe Wart 34–36 is removed from the list of inalienable objects because the building has no historical value. This warrants the exclusion. Of course, this does not mean that the villa is now sold immediately. The pending restitution procedure will be pending, carried out, and, of course, the National Council will not take such a decision, which would have to decide on its own law. I call on the Greens, in particular, not to distrust themselves and to think that the decision will be taken in advance. However, I would also like to comment on the opposition's demand for a commitment from the BIG to investments that bring energy savings. This would make the BIG worse against other landlords and could also be an intervention in existing rental contracts. At present, the BIG has already agreed on an investment volume of more than €15 million in the framework of the contracting project, which has also been largely achieved, and in the context of general renovations, 800 000 square meters of land have already been improved in energy-relevant terms since 1992. I think that this is – even without a special legal obligation – a very good result for an environmentally conscious action by the BIG.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20039	Mr Marizzi is speaking as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20060	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Regler, this energy history is certainly a point that the BIG has successfully begun. In our motion for a resolution, we have only said well that, given today's energy prices, the BIG could, on the one hand, contribute to the Kyoto objective, on the other hand, make investments and, on the other hand, put in place third-party labour market policies. The application has come from the opposition, so you have rejected it. But I don't think that makes sense, because the federal real estate company could perhaps become the number one in terms of energy policy. But it's just that, it's your way of refusing opposition requests. We're used to that, even from the Transport Committee, but that doesn't matter. Mr. Grossruck has boasted that the gymnasium was renovated in Grieskirchen. That's great! Those in my home district of Neunkirchen – we were there only a week ago – have some deep cracks in the walls. It was built in the 1970s and has not been done since. – This too could be an example of how you deal with the opposition. Mr Neudeck is right: We agree with this merger authority. He's right when he says the BIG was successful. It was founded in the mid-1990s in the time of the great coalition, and we do not have a child-moving. We say this is an ordinary instrument, but, as honourable Member Neudeck has said, the BIG has sold the “filet pieces”, so it is so successful! We are not angry at this, but, as my colleague Eder said in committee, let us look at the organigram. 16 societies now include the BIG, and this organigram – the Minister of State was very prepared for information – grows like a Hydra, very pointed. [[Abg. Neudeck: But there she has to last 15 years that she is like that...!]] That must not be the case, Mr. Neudeck. One could save advice there, one could save one’s supervisory councils, still to the point where the idea of saving is always and everywhere in the foreground. If we have to read today that 16 000 officials are to be saved from this federal government, we could also consider saving in companies where the federal government operates. That too could be a sign. In principle, we agree with this regulation. We also agree that the BIG is very successful on the road. We're not running child-moving, but maybe you're going a little bit into the opposition's arguments! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20097	The next speaker was Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20118	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to point out in my remarks the organisational innovations of the BIG. The current legislative amendment will create the prerequisite for optimising the organisations of the BIG Group. It is about the merger of the BIG as a acquiring company with the real estate management company of the federal government. As early as 2004, a restructuring of the real estate management company under the new name BIG-Service took place. This restructuring has already set up task-oriented organisational units. The now present novel to merge BIG and BIG-Service provides the prerequisite for further efficiency improvements such as the integration of the central areas or, as we have already heard, synergies in the area of overhead and, above all, for the management of a federal real estate database. – A bundle of measures that will have a positive impact on the care of tenants in particular – and this is particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1999, the BIG has made investments in general renovations and new buildings of about 1.9 billion €, and that is, I think, a success story. For my part, I would like to express my appreciation to all the ladies and gentlemen who are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20157	Next item is the report by Mr Rada. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20179	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In these stories of success, I cannot, however, in principle agree with this bill. It is not this success story, as Mr Großruck described it, that it created jobs. There are no statistics that prove that jobs have been created and secured, so I doubt that. If Member Neudeck claims to have succeeded in selling ‘filet pieces’, I must say: Mr deputies, of course there is something to sell. [[Abg. Neudeck: You always gave it to me before!]] And if you sell “file pieces”, that’s, I say, a sale of Austria. [[Complementary of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] The Republic of Austria could also sell ‘filet pieces’ profitably. [[Abg. Neudeck: What is the difference?]] What you mean in this direction is a profit maximization for certain people playing in this area. Some things and names have already been mentioned by my previous speakers today, and there is nothing to add to this. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why it doesn't have to be true!]] But what I still lack in connection with the last committee discussions is the answer to the question of how far this is divided between daughters and others. What actually happens to all these properties that are to be sold via the BIG or through various other associations, what happens to the barracks that are to be sold? [[Abg. Neudeck: Did you really not understand, or are you always so unsightly?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: A GesmbH is not a club!]] Mr. Minister, you could say this in good time today. The Committee said that these are things that remain in the area of the Republic – inalienable things. But what did we hear in the media yesterday? – These barracks are sold to best bidders. [[Abg. Scheibner: You want to sell the barracks yourself!]] What really is the political intention of the Federal Minister? [[Abg. Neudeck: Should they sell it to the “social building” – or what have you imagined?]] What's going to happen to all of this? It is also said in these bill that there will be great added value for the regions. – At present, I do not notice that there is a higher value added in the affected areas after barracks closures.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20317	Mr Ellmauer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20338	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Rada, the BIG's balance sheet since its inception is a success experience, and it can be seen. There's nothing to talk about. For 2005, BIG, a company that has to claim to be on the market, is expected to generate a profit of about €45 million. Since 1999, about €1.9 billion has been spent on general renovations and new buildings. A record amount of €384 million is planned for 2006 for investment. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry: That's what we've read before!]] Already 45 percent of the building areas of the BIG are energetically renovated. This made it possible to achieve an energy saving of around 20 percent or a CO2 equivalent of 16 500 tonnes per year in savings. In the next few years it will be 46 000 tonnes. [[Abg. Arbitrators: After them must have been bad before!]] The change to the real estate law includes the merger of BIG and BIG services to optimize the organisational structure of the Group. BIG-Services offers a wide range of high-quality services in the area of house and property management and construction management. It bears responsibility for the people in the commercial properties and feels committed to the owners of these buildings. The merger of BIG and BIG services serves to streamline and simplify processes that will have a positive impact on the care of the federal tenants. The synergies achieved are intended to further increase efficiency. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is an additional €500 million for the general renovation of the universities. This recently decided reorganisation package, which the rectors' conference unanimously approved, allows for the implementation of 23 projects, largely general renovations and some new and new buildings. With this significant improvement compared to the status quo, significant progress has been made for the Austrian university landscape.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20394	The next speaker was Mrs Walther. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20416	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to make the following request in this debate: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20482	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Bures, colleagues, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20506	Mr President. High house! Mrs Walther, as already discussed in the Committee, speaks against what you have put forward in your motion for a resolution, against what is discussed in the second motion for a resolution, but I do not think it makes any sense for the BIG to explicitly prescribe things which are regulated in general law for all other societies of comparable structures in Austria, or at least otherwise. The BIG is to compete, it needs its hands free – and that is the essential point in my view, which is why I stand critically against these initiatives and motions for resolutions. Tag ‘File pieces’: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I think that wherever the BIG has areas or buildings, which are not to be used in the Federal interest in the medium and longer term, they are likely to be used for a tax, for a sale. Everything else is the decision of the BIG management, respectful of its supervisory bodies. I insist that the BIG has been a success story since its inception, in all its phases, especially in the last phase. It's going on, and that's a good thing. And if you are criticizing individuals, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, I ask you to specify that, not only to put the accusations blurry into the room. If you have specific accusations, let me know; I would, of course, become an initial owner here. Ladies and gentlemen, to Kyoto, in order to give the historical truth the credit: In Kyoto, not minus 25 or minus 13 percent were decided, but within the framework of the Climate Change Conference – Ms Dr. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Unfortunately!]] Glavischnig, that was still Mrs. Langthaler, her predecessor as an environmental spokesperson, was decided for the industrialized countries a reduction of between 6 and 8 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I know!]] At that time, the European Union took over 8 percent, the Japanese and the Americans 6 respectively. The Americans, however, have not yet been able to do so by means of non-ratification. Everything else is the EU's internal Burden sharing, the burden distribution. And it is right that I have entered the negotiations in principle with a position of the government and also of the Parliament of minus 25 percent. Significantly, we then negotiated this down – many others in the European Union did not understand that – to minus 13 percent. And this is the state of play that we have to fulfil on the basis of internal EU commitments. In any case, I would like to thank you for the great willingness of the large groups in this House to allow BIG and BIG services to be merged. In the historical and business history it makes sense to separate the first – namely, to merge federal building administrations into a private economic structure, that was IMB, then BIG services – but now in foreseeable time, and that is also my intention to merge the two societies makes further sense in the development. – Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20562	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20584	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the start-up phase of the BIG in 2000 and the restructuring of 2004 has been successfully completed, it is now necessary to ensure that further optimization can take place. The merger of BIG and BIG services has already been adequately reported; the core tasks of the BIG are also known. What is perhaps less known – I would like to point out now – is that the BIG has made early efforts to achieve environmental protection and energy optimization in federal buildings. Several measures have already enabled CO2 emissions to be reduced by more than 20 percent in some projects in 2001. As a result of these environmental activities, the Austrian government decided to develop a national climate strategy and to implement measures to increase energy efficiency in federal buildings. The routes for the single-sparing-contracting model were also set for around 500 BIG buildings and for the Parliament building. The contracts are awarded to a contractor, and this one gives a savings guarantee with the risk of a fee reduction. It is interesting to note that the counter-tractor's fee is financed by energy cost savings. We in Wieselburg also have an example of this savings-saving contract, namely at the former Bundesanstalt für Landtechnik, now FJBLT. I would also like to thank the fact that there are other projects in Wieselburg, for example the new construction of the Bundesgymnasium, which is about €4 million shortly before the opening. The third project in Wieselburg is also planned, namely the new school and boarding school building at the Francisco-Josephinum. Overall, this new building will cause €16.2 million in pure construction costs. It is particularly interesting that in the future biomass instead of gas will be heated there, partly with forest hacking and in some cases all possible biogenic agricultural fuels will be tested in research. I would like to thank you very much: for these environmental activities and for these energy activities of the BIG and the Minister and the Ministry for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20627	The next speaker was Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20648	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A very important point in the Discussions on the BIG-Novelle in the Building Committee was the improvement of energy efficiency in the Federal Building area, which was often addressed. In our view, the BIG should be obliged to improve energy efficiency in the Federal Buildings area at least to the extent proposed by the Kyoto Forum working group, in the light of the fact that the promotion of energy building renovations contributes significantly to the achievement of Kyoto climate protection targets. In addition – and we would like to highlight this in particular – public buildings have a very important role to play in the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen! As we have already heard, the BIG's efforts in terms of energy saving, on federal contracting, have been recognized. However, the increased energy recovery of the federal building stock would be quite welcome beyond what has been done so far. This would add to climate change objectives on the one hand and, on the other, achieve employment and economic effects on the other to the same extent. Therefore, the argument of the government parties, which includes the rejection of our request for energy efficiency improvement, appears very one-dimensional. Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20728	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Bures, colleagues, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20752	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! With the BIG, customer orientation and optimal management of a portfolio, which has now grown to €4 billion, are the top priority. Major projects such as Eurogate or Aspern in Vienna will be implemented in the coming years. Thus, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft has developed into one of the most modern and largest companies in the federal government, which pursues a balanced course between conservative stock optimization and progressive, forward-looking real estate development. Revenue rose from € 677 million in 2003 to 688 million in the past financial year. A special position, which will be at the heart of future development work, will include projects in the field of research and development in the field of higher education. As an example of this new niche market, the ICT center in Innsbruck was called. The performance contracting activities of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft were successfully further expanded in 2004. In 2000 the real estate management company of the federal government was founded in Vienna, which is a subsidiary of the BIG. ==References== April 2004, a new BIG Service structure came into force, with 18 new object management teams being created, in which home management and maintenance management are managed networkly. The service sector New Construction and General Rehabilitation was organized in a uniform manner throughout Austria, and the new CAD and Facility Services business segments were created. In these areas, value added will be held in the Group in the future. The merger of BIG and BIG services requires a new legal basis, which is to be decided today. This merger serves to further increase efficiency, further mergers of the central areas such as accounting, IT, law, further hierarchy flattening, and streamlining and simplifying processes that will also have a positive impact on the care of the federal tenants. It is also a final opportunity to express thanks to the employees as well as the leadership for the services provided.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20813	The next speaker was Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20835	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal does not, among other things, only concern: These two societies will be melted, but also because in the future there will be the possibility to sell their own properties, especially the official villa of the Federal President in Heiligenstadt. In the case of such restructurings and mergers – it is important for me to point out – there is always the risk that workers' rights will be restricted, that rights will be lost, that rights, as I said, will also be changed. And that was the reason why I tabled a four-party amendment on this subject in the Building Committee, which made it very clear that only the legal representation of employers loses their collective contractual capacity in the area of BIG and that all workers' and workers' rights remain fully respected in the future, ladies and gentlemen. We have also introduced our conviction in the Committee – and this is also very important to me – according to crucial and important proposals, which have unfortunately been postponed by the government parties. For example, we have tabled a proposal that we believe calls on the BIG to put in place measures to be more successful in the field of climate protection, that more heating costs can be saved and, above all, that there are new and additional impulses on the labour market. Unfortunately, this request has been signed, although many studies show that investment in the thermal renovation of buildings is expected to occur in the shortest time and investment has a threefold higher employment impact than in the area of road construction, for example. Unfortunately, a request was also postponed by the government parties, which had a uniform environmental construction law on the subject. We on the part of Social Democracy would have thought it was important to install a mine-friendly business order throughout Austria. Unfortunately, this request has also been signed. Nevertheless, we will not be able to disembark ourselves cheaply in the future, and in the next deliberations we will always try to address these areas again and again, and we will try to find a solution in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20880	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1165 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, give their agreement to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bures, colleagues, on building maintenance and renovation by the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bures, colleagues in the field of energy efficiency improvement in federal buildings by the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[19:42:20]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (982 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual representation of both States by their representative authorities as regards the granting of visas for airport transit (Visum A), transit (Visum B) and short-term stay (Visum C) (1180 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1062, e.g._Other Organiser United Nations Convention on Corruption (1181 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20968	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e20996	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have today to decide on a proposal that has reached the consensus of all, namely an agreement with Slovenia on visas. This is the sign of our future visa policy: coordinated with our neighbouring countries in the sense of mutual support. I believe that this is a good and right way, and I am glad that all the parties in this House stand to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion I would like to refer to the current discussion on the so-called visa affair. I believe that with a lot of suspicions, a great pre-conception, and in a very unfair way, there is an attempt to conjure up a discussion that we do not need. Ladies and gentlemen, and I would particularly like to write this to the SPÖ in the main book, which starts here to throw the scandalizing machine: We have to register unfortunate miscarriages of individuals; that is right. On the other hand, it is also necessary to proceed with all the strictness of the law, and this includes criminal means, but it must not give the impression that our visa system would be faulty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The representative authorities have more than 400 000 visa cases per year, and in over 99 percent of cases, this works really well, is done quickly, efficiently, fairly and safely. Therefore, on the basis of individual cases, one must not question a system that is in itself a good one, a system with which Austria as a whole can rise. Secondly, there are two suspects who are being found out where, in part, there have been arrests where disciplinary proceedings have been initiated, but you are trying to give the opposition the impression that all the staff of the Foreign Office and the representative authorities working in this field are somehow suspicious. I really want to reject this because the many ladies and gentlemen who work for Austria abroad did not deserve it! I would also like to say this in this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, you also criticise the Foreign Minister, who was not responsible at all and who has now done exactly what is expected from a member of the government to cooperate with the criminal authorities in order to clarify everything and, secondly, to optimize the system in order to respond better to possible abuses committed by individuals there and there. To this end, the Foreign Minister has set up an expert group led by a well-known representative of the SPÖ, who will chair her former Foreign Minister Peter Jankovitsch. I think this is a very correct and wise way of doing things for the future. I would like to conclude with what Jankovitsch said: We're not supposed to be sorry that something happened! – That fits exactly in your direction, ladies and gentlemen: Don't try to conjure up scandals where no one is!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21065	The next item is the report by Mr Arbitrator. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21086	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which is under discussion here, is a very important project. Corruption – the Committee's report also points out – unfortunately exists as a social phenomenon in almost all regions of the world and is harmful to sustainable development. Democracy, economics and the rule of law suffer. Corruption has become increasingly global in recent decades, so countermeasures at the same level also need to be taken. That is why this United Nations Convention is based on such considerations in the EU and is in line with the relevant provisions in the Council of Europe and the OSCE. It is new that public transparency is also required in the fight against corruption, and new is also the chapter on the issue of assets in international standards. In the future, there will be no place in the world where a capital generated by corruption can be hidden. The issue can be demanded, and completely new mechanisms are under way. It is clear that this Convention is to be implemented by national laws, and the explanations also refer to where one suspects that legal changes are necessary. In most areas they are not seen. We could now discuss ten or eleven points in which I believe it will be necessary to take action in Austria. I would just like to take three out, which are also important to Parliament. This is first of all the new Article 6: Each Contracting State shall now set up one or more bodies dedicated to the prevention of corruption, especially in the sense of deepening knowledge. These bodies are to be granted the necessary independence. The explanatory remarks draw attention to the fact that in order to achieve this objective, for example, an exemption under Article 20(1) B-VG, parliamentary control rights and the like should be considered. As a Parliament, I think we should follow closely the fact that these controls are actually being carried out. The second is Article 7, which states that all legal provisions in Austria are sufficient; they are also mentioned. I believe that on this occasion we should consider whether the law of incompatibility still meets precisely these conditions – or whether there should be any corresponding changes to the law of incompatibility. Thirdly, Article 10. This is about the measures to promote transparency, and it should be noted that this can be ensured, for example, by the law of the National Council and by other instruments. There it will be, Mr Winkler, as I do, that we need legal measures. And I also wonder whether the information of members of the government, which has been very often used in recent times, is a certain matter of silence, from these points of view still to be accepted in the future. If necessary, legal rewording should also be found here so that Austria can participate decisively in this international anti-corruption campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21145	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21166	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder, I am of your opinion that, in the sense of this anti-corruption and also of the new directives, we are here in Austria looking at the legal system and the special laws in order to examine the extent to which there is a need for adaptation. And we should tackle this relatively quickly, because there should be no gaps here. However, I believe that this agreement can and will be a very important sign – internationally and nationally – in this direction. I also think the agreement with Slovenia is very positive, because, as my previous speaker Spindelegger has already said, this will lead to administrative simplification and an increase in efficiency. I think the Greens are in favour, but I am grateful that we have already tabled motions for resolutions here. You have already said it yourself, Mrs Lunacek, that, in this present case, no more documents should be destroyed, so documents that you think you no longer need. I believe that this has already been arranged, and that is why we do not consider this motion for a resolution. As Mr Spindelegger has also referred to the visa affair – we will still have to debate the establishment of an investigation committee today –: I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have in some bodies, such as the Foreign Policy Council and the Foreign Policy Committee, on the It is a matter of debate. The opposition and also we asked questions to the Foreign Minister. It has provided willing information, and at least there has been nothing left in the committees. Questions have also been raised, including questions from my group. It identifies justice, and we all hope, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a criminal act of individual perpetrators, I say very clearly here, and that no generalizations can therefore be made. The total number of visa allocations over this period: 1.3 million visa allocations, and now it is about reviewing 4,000 cases. And then you'll see in what cases there have really been legal violations. This needs to be clarified, complete and complete. But we have always – and you too from the SPÖ, if I can remember when you were still in the government – had this opinion that when the court examines if, for example, the Court of Auditors examines if, as now, there is a special committee – I hope you will be from the SPÖ to your former Minister Jankovitsch Giving you confidence – then is not the time to think about the setting up of an investigation committee. Many of the questions you have asked in your inquiries can hopefully be resolved by these investigations or by parliamentary answers. I believe that it should be particularly sensitive to issues of the foreign office and foreign policy – and not to use such criminal events to debate foreign policy as such. If it is necessary – and this is of course natural – no one here in the House will also close up another method of investigation, but now the authorities should now and should examine this special commission. Let's look at it – especially what Austria's reputation is about abroad – to generalise all these things in a political way and to create an image that we hope we don't want.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21236	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21258	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In one case, all four parties agree that we will give our approval to the two proposals on the agenda, namely the agreement with Slovenia, as regards the visa exhibitions, which we think are useful and correct, as well as the United Nations anti-corruption convention, which is on the agenda here and which is indeed a milestone for us, just as Transparency International has said, in the fight against corruption. This is the first time that a global and legally binding instrument is adopted against corruption. This is actually a milestone, and I am very glad that this is on the agenda today and that all four parties will give their approval. But of course it is, I say, a good coincidence that this agreement is on the agenda today, because this is also about the responsibility of the Officials to the public administration and their fight against corruption. And this fits – unfortunately – to the case of what is still going to happen at the end of the evening, namely in the demand of both opposition parties, to set up an investigation committee to clarify the political responsibility for the operations in the foreign office. In this context, it is not a question, as Mr Scheibner has now said, of anyone having the intention to disavow the foreign office, but it is simply not true that no questions would have been left open in the Committee or in the Foreign Council. That's just not right! There have been very many questions that the Minister could not or did not want to answer. That is why it is very necessary to set up such a committee. As a very special point, the Committee meeting a week ago did not really answer the question of whether documents on visas were still being destroyed in the messages. As Mrs Plassnik has just said, yes, there are EU rules, EU rules that after a year one can destroy those documents where visas have been issued, and one may, after five years, issue those documents where visas have not been issued. However, Minister Plassnik has not said that, as in today's issue of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from 16.58 a.m., since 27. It has already been arranged in six messages in order to stop this devastation! This seems to me to be a bit strange, because the head of the expert committee set up by Foreign Minister Plassnik, former SPÖ Foreign Minister Peter Jankovitsch, still has on 13 November. In November, he called for a stop to the foreign ministry's practice of destroying unnecessarily needed documents in the embassies. Neither the Minister nor the Head of this Commission has known that this has already been done since 27. It seems to me that September is being practised, or it has become public today, after the motion for a resolution, which I will now submit here, as well as the two requests for the setting up of a committee of inquiry, has been adopted: But now you have to do something quickly, so that the impression does not arise, it has not yet been acted. For this reason, I now put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In view of this issue by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this afternoon, 4.58 p.m., where things are inside, which the Minister did not say a week ago, our request would be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, I seem to have fallen. That is why we maintain this request, and I hope that it will receive the approval of all the political groups – also within the meaning of the anti-corruption agreement, which we will unanimously ratify here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21348	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by the honourable Members. Lunacek, friends and friends are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21415	The next item is Mrs Hakl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21437	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The UN anti-corruption agreement is particularly important for those countries in sub-Saharan Africa, where corruption continues to drive abstract flowers and also prevents the development of whole countries and regions. For this reason, as part of its development cooperation, Austria has always refrained from providing direct budget support in such and other countries, and is only doing programme and project work here in order to be available to the poor, affected people and the general population as partners. I believe that this is very important and that Austria has already done very good in the area of democracy and anti-corruption in development cooperation, particularly in the field of good governance and in the preparation of programmes and projects that contribute to the construction of other, more stable governmental systems in those particularly corrupt countries. I think that's important. Of particular importance in this Convention is that in future the issue or transfer of assets acquired by corruption will finally be possible. This was a measure that did not exist in the past, and it is of vital importance. I would like to say to Mrs Lunacek, on the so-called visa affair and your statements: Every now and then, I feel like we were in different committees. The Federal Minister has actually answered each of your questions exhaustively. Of course, the huge number of questions, especially in this committee, may occur once that the Minister does not answer one or another very precisely; but, as I believe, you have not assembled the question that has now been repeated in the Committee as being not answered. That would certainly have been easy for the Federal Minister. The fact that Minister Jankovitsch, who has not been appointed for so long, does not yet know all about the measures that have already been taken in this field with caution and as soon as possible by the Foreign Minister – who has promised in our sense that all the accusations, all the processes, without any reservation, want to be thoroughly examined and made clear – are also established. I therefore feel that there is no basis at all for setting up a committee of inquiry, and of course we will not agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21483	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Posch to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21506	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, even if this is not on the agenda, I should like to express my pleasure at the fact that you have expressed in the Committee that you may agree with the motion for a resolution by Mr Lunacek and my person on scatter bombs and cluster ammunition at the next committee meeting. Because I think that's a very, very important thing. This is not about an exact definition, but about the fact that it will be a four-party request, because it is about very, very many victims of this ammunition. That is why I hope that this will be done in the spring in the sense of a four-party application. Secondly, I do not want to deal with the visa issue in detail here, this will be done by my colleague Heinzl. I just want to say: It remains to be hoped – as honourable Member Scheibner said – that this is a criminal act of individual perpetrators. However, the questions of accompanying control are still very open, and I also hear from some of the government coalitions that one or the other is considering agreeing to such an investigation committee. We will in all cases support the Greens' request for this. Thirdly, the UN Convention on Corruption: Mr Schieder has already said that this UN Convention is intended to put in place effective measures to effectively and effectively prevent and combat corruption, to strengthen international cooperation and to stop a number of States from creating preventive measures, both in the public sector and in the fight against corruption in the private sector. But a number of legislative measures are also envisaged. Although Austria is relatively good in terms of this so-called corruption perception index, in the tenth place of a total of 159, it is therefore relatively free of corruption, but still vigilance, I believe, is required. That's why I've got art. 12 of this UN agreement found interesting. It's in Art. ==References== e – I do not know if you have noticed anything – that measures may include “preventing conflicts of interest by restricting the professional activities of former officials or the employment of officials by the private sector following their retirement from or entering retirement in cases where this is appropriate, and for a reasonable period of time when such activities or jobs are directly linked to the tasks performed or supervised by those officials during their term of office”. I do not know if there is any thought coming to you, but think about what has happened in recent times in connection with the Austrian Federal Railways and with Mr Vice-Chancellor, and consider whether, at all events, such a UN agreement would apply to such a case! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21544	Mr Winkler, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21565	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As someone who is a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for more than 35 years, it is my real concern – and it has already been expressed – to protect the many committed employees against lumpsum suspicions, and I would like to say very clearly three points to the accusations of the trade in visas. Firstly, and the Minister has said this several times, the Secretary-General has said that, I have already said that, but I would like to repeat it at this point: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is interested in a comprehensive and unsustainable clarification of these allegations, because there are allegations that go against our house, and we have no interest at all and we cannot have any possible interest in not trying to clarify anything here. There are accusations against a few people. I've got to stress this already: We live in a rule of law, no one has yet been sentenced, so the presumption of innocence applies. There is also no charge as to the accusations in Belgrade, Bucharest, Cairo and other countries. The only charge that exists was brought against someone who must justify himself against allegations that are not at all in this respect. But there are no charges yet, and we are still at the pre-examination stage and preliminary investigations. – I do not want to protect anyone here, so that this is quite clear. We will do everything we can to clarify these accusations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are – and I would like to face all the accusations that have been raised in this direction – especially no cover-up. On the question of fragmentation, mentioned again and again: I think it has been said by several members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also by the Foreign Minister in her written answer to the many questions put in the Committee: It's 27. September, a few hours after the first accusations had become known, a message to the Embassy in Budapest – that was the first known case – was to block all the relevant files of the investigation period immediately, and the Head of Mission was instructed to take the key and not allow anyone to enter. This instructions was issued by e-mail at 16.33 p.m. and in the days thereafter further orders were made to the representative authorities to do everything possible to ensure the documents that may also be required by the judicial authorities and the investigating authorities. ==References== September, has been contacted by the investigative judge and has been expressly offered to leave any document and to grant any cooperation necessary to clarify these cases. Since then, of course, we have been in regular contact with the Ministry of the Interior, which is in charge of the issue of issuing visas, and we have contacted the judicial authorities to ensure full cooperation with the investigating authorities. We are also very interested in – and that in a very keen interest – all the abuses. It has already been said: The citizens of this country, but also the citizens of other countries, have a right to be legitimate, objective and fair in issuing visas. In 99.7 percent of the cases, the Austrian officials and the Austrian contract staff have acted correctly, prudently under often very difficult conditions, during the period under discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I know that many of you have been in countries such as Ukraine or other Eastern European countries where up to 30 000, 40 000 or 50 000 visas are issued a year. And I can assure you: This often happens under very difficult circumstances, and this is done with great commitment by an official, as I believe, who is very attached to the matter. Thirdly, we are of course interested in dealing with the mistakes that have perhaps been made – and what management is not faced with mistakes, and also with our own mistakes? – to learn. We will ensure that the system continues to remain secure of the future so that it can be better ensured that no irregularities can be committed. One will never be able to do that completely, that is impossible for human beings, and it will always be found, even in the most perfect system, the possibility that one or the other acts unlawfully. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to stress that sometimes very precise considerations have to be made, because, of course, the Austrian economy, tourism and many other legitimate interests are that visitors come to us and that those who are entitled to come to us and work here or spend their holidays. With this often very difficult gratification, the colleagues outside the Austrian representation authorities are confronted, and if, ultimately, it is correct and legitimate in the vast number of cases, it deserves recognition, as I believe. I can assure you that we will continue to examine all the individual cases. It is very likely that this is a case of individual cases, and I am against it when, in some contributions, it is said that there are criminal networks and a swamp in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Abg. Heinzl: If the Belgrade Mafia advertises, is that not a criminal network?]] We will continue to ensure that our colleagues do their work properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21616	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21637	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! The two proposals we are considering here today have been presented by colleagues, so I can save myself. I will use the short time I have available here to explain why my colleague Barbara Rosenkranz and I agree with the SPÖ's request to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry today. By the way: The proposals made by the Greens are unnecessary, and I can also tell you that we do not agree with the SPÖ's request because it comes from the SPÖ, but because it concerns an important issue of the credibility of our policy, ladies and gentlemen. This issue of the credibility of our policy does not now concern the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr State Secretary, and its employees and officials who do excellent work, but it concerns policy as a whole. This is a question of a clear regulation of immigration and entry into our country. We have told people that the Schengen Europe and also the Republic of Austria regulations will make them safer, and obviously this is not the case: Apparently, the figures of cases of organised crime, which we see in Austria, are still frightening. We are confronted with organised crime in the field of gang formation and intrusion in homes, in houses on the bright days, with the towing, illegal prostitution, trafficking in human beings and all these issues. That is why – I am speaking now for Rosary and Bösch – we think it is right in these areas that we take advantage of all efforts to restore this credibility. What you, Mr State Secretary, and also the Ministers of the Foreign Policy Committee have announced – we could already talk about it there – is commendable, and I support you in it. But we should also support the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the efforts of the judicial system in parliamentary terms. I think that's the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21677	The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21698	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Who would have believed ten to 15 years ago that we are today adopting a law in which Austria and Slovenia could represent themselves on both sides in the case of visas and so on? – That was unthinkable and unimaginable ten to 15 years ago! We have a dynamic development behind us and before us, which no man has estimated and invented. I think we are living in a very interesting time, and that change and dynamics, of course, also bring problems, is quite clear. However, we should not be afraid of the problems, but we should accept the challenges and look optimistically into the future. In this context, I think we can look in particular at the Austrian Presidency in the next half year: The focus has been on the south-eastern European states. Our neighbours, but also the former countries of the k. u.k. monarchy, our friends, will be treated and given attention accordingly. They notice this, and they are grateful to us, and their sympathy comes to us, much more than other countries. These are the opportunities that we should use instead of acting in a small sized area and wanting to earn political change. I am already clear, dear comrades and dear greens: After you have had no success in hunting for Minister of Finance Grasser or Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer, who surprised you with her university package or caught her wrong foot, you are now going to the successful Foreign Minister Plassnik. That's your system! [[Abg. Arbitrators: The system deserves to be defended!]] The Secretary of State has already clearly and clearly explained where action is being taken, what is behind it, and how criminal activities are being investigated. It's not a system, it's an individual, and we don't need a parliamentary investigation, but we trust in the prosecutor's office and our courts. They now want to blow a Halali again in the hunting season to hunt for Mrs. Minister, but we will not play there, because our foreign minister is successful and appreciated everywhere, she has negotiated successfully, also concerning Turkey. Therefore, as always, I am not afraid of my speech this time with a song of praise to our foreign minister, Mr Gusenbauer now does not happen: Hardly negotiated, strong, flag shown and well determined, courage and quality proved that our Ursula was praised!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21735	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21756	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! This Agreement will strengthen cooperation with the Republic of Slovenia in the consular field. We welcome this, which has already been said, and, of course, as a Socialist Group, we are happy to agree to the agreement. The subject-matter of the agreement also brings me to an issue that has been discussed intensively in the public during the last days and weeks, even if you do not like it, namely the trade in visas, also called visa scandal. The arrests and the media reports of the prosecutor's investigations have shown that, since – and I would like to emphasize this very precisely now – there have been several years of accusations in the field of trade in visas. The responsible resorts have always disputed this! Mr. State Secretary! If you have said here in the House today that Mrs Foreign Minister would have answered all the questions in the committee, there is nothing left open, and what she has not answered she has answered in writing, I will tell you as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: The questions I have asked have not answered them, and I have not received any written answer until the hour. That is why I do not allow myself to repeat the questions here in plenary, even if you do not. [[Call to the liberals: Oh yes! Just ask!]] I now ask the following questions: Has Mrs Ferrero-Waldner informed the responsible Austrian authorities sufficiently about the evidence? Did Mrs Ferrero-Waldner inform the Ministry of the Interior? Have you ever done anything else than put the affair under the table? Only the fact that the only action that was set was the relocation of an uncomfortable employee in the Belgrade Embassy leaves at least a very small side-taste for me. Is this the way in which today's foreign office is dealt with with with with relevant references to irregularities? – The only thing that was obviously very fast was the sorting of files. Why were the files not withdrawn for more than a year, although the accusation of the trade in visas was in the room? – Of course, the EU Consular Regulation is happy to allow this possibility. One could also say that the sorting of evidence simply went away very quickly. But it went on. After the transfer of the now detained general consul from Belgrade to Budapest, a Carinthian businessman tried to recruit another employee of the Belgrade Embassy. That is what he told his predecessor at the time. Question: What have these superiors done? Did they at least pass on information? And then what happened? - Obviously nothing. But one thing is quite obvious: The then Foreign Minister, Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, did not have the messages in hand. In addition, the public was misinformed about the transactions. But the affair is not just about the foreign office. Why has the Ministry of the Interior done nothing – the applications for entry submitted to the Embassy have been reviewed by the Ministry of the Interior? Why has it not been noticed that some companies have issued invitations to the flow band, while in other cases the Ministry of the Interior – we know – has worked much more precisely when allowing applications for entry? There are still a number of questions to be resolved: [[Abg. Kainz: A question about the Mariazellerbahn!]] Who has benefited from this visa trade and, especially since “NEWS” still offers visas from Austrian embassies, who still deserves it? [[Abg. Neudeck: This is the wrong item on the agenda!]] Mr State Secretary! High house! After these incidents, it is not easy to go to the agenda. Therefore, a parliamentary committee of inquiry is necessary to ensure who bears the legal and political responsibility for this trade in visas. High house! It would be quite surprising if the members of the BDO covered this procedure and were against the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21816	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21838	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Heinzl! If you listen, you think you're living in another country. There is a completely different perception of the work of the Ministries, and I am inexplicable about whom you have discussed or not discussed. [[Abg. Heinzl: Well, not with you!]] The fact is that this has very little to do with the really highly qualified work of our officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would just like to take this for granted once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My colleague will then take a brief look at your speech. I would like to mention once again our ratification of the UN Convention against Corruption. We have already heard that it is an essential building block in the global framework for combating the international evil of corruption. The fact is that no country is in favour of it, neither the rich countries nor the poor, but it is precisely the poor countries that hit it particularly hard because corruption prevents economic growth, the prosperity of a country. And the corruption perception index published by Transparency International, which was also briefly quoted today, sees Chad, Bangladesh, Turkmenistan, Myanmar and Haiti as the most corrupt countries. But they are also the poorest in the world. On the other hand, I would like to share with you and especially colleagues Heinzl the following with regard to the position of Austria in this report, which has been made by an NGO organisation, which provides excellent work: 159 lan(s) have been reviewed; Austria is tenth in terms of people's trust in officials. – I think that makes us really good on the road. You will never be able to exclude the black sheep. But we are very well placed with our civil servants, and we will certainly do everything we can to clarify the points that are open. The law is a good one, and it's good that we go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21880	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21902	High house! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. If the desire for this committee of inquiry is still so intense, we will not vote for it from very clear considerations which have already been presented. First, the dishes work. The Secretary of State has shown us impressively and crediblely that everything is done on the part of the House in its own interest to clarify these incidents. That is why we are waiting for this work and the reports, and then we will be happy to continue the discussion with everyone. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: But this is gracious!]] It was pleasant today that from all sides we were able to agree to these two legislative instruments. Mrs Lunacek, it is not a “good coincidence” that this is coming today, but it shows the ability of this government to act, and it is all possible to show it, not a question. I believe that foreign policy is made in the same way and in the same way; for this, our Mrs Minister, the Secretary of State, draws attention to this. At a time of increasing internationalisation, politics and administration must also refer to the new challenges. We are now adopting an agreement with Slovenia. My colleague, Mr Grossruck, said ten years ago that this would have been unimaginable, today these things are running, we are supporting each other and we are also aware of the interests in the issue of visas together. On the UN Convention against Corruption: Corruption is certainly a major threat to the world, to society, to all democratic states, to society as a whole, and therefore the matter must be effectively stopped. We will, of course, agree with the international agreement of the UN, which is here today, and I believe that the key points, international cooperation in the fight against corruption and the return of assets to the countries of origin, are now also regulated accordingly by this agreement. I hope that we all succeed in countering these bad developments and in stopping this whole thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21942	The next speaker is Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e21964	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Heinzl, in his speech, tried to give the impression, by means of a number of questions, that all those working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, were potentially criminals or involved in this affair. [[Abg. Heinzl: But you will still be allowed to ask!]] He would actually have to know that an individual case has not yet been entitled to express these suspicions. I say that you just have to know, because no one here claims that, for example, in the St. Pölten Hospital, for example, all hospital officials are, as it were, criminally charged. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Mr. Dr. Brader,...!]] . Mr Heinzl, I do not ask you whether you knew that a person close to you acted fraudulently and negligently. [[Abg. Heinzl: I have no proximity...!]] – This is Your problem! You don't need to slander now, Mr. Cot. They make suspicions here and even have problems in many areas. Back to the matter submitted. I also, of course, welcome the agreements submitted. I think they are the right step, and I am pleased that despite all efforts and preparations for the EU Presidency, it was time to negotiate such important neighbourhood agreements. I welcome this, and I very much hope that those responsible in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not be irritated by such actions as Mr Heinzl has put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22033	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22054	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary Winkler! High house! It has already been mentioned that all of us in this House are interested in concluding a contract with Slovenia, which means more cooperation in the consular area, in the issuing of visas et cetera. And it has been pointed out that in the past it has not been possible to imagine that today we can conclude such an agreement with such a country that has this beautiful development. A second matter is corruption, the United Nations Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really so that corruption threatens democracies, the rule of law and the economies. It is more countries than we can imagine where corruption takes on a high priority, which is really to be combated. We are in favour of this agreement and we want to take account of it. I think that Austria, which is particularly suitable for our parliamentarianism to export control rights, indicates the possibilities we have in our Parliament – thanks for the confirmation, Mr Oellinger – and to draw attention to the fact that Parliament has to control and that it also exercises these rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] And we'll see them too. I would like to thank you, Secretary of State Winkler, for creating clarity in visa matters and for supporting Mrs Plessnik here, who – if you have listened carefully to the committee – has pointed out that everything is meant to clarify and clarify these individual cases – one is opposed to flat-rate convictions, to generalizations, and that complete information is of course in the foreground without protection. The Secretary of State has repeated once again that all the abuses are shown and that one may also think about optimizing the system. That the prosecutor's office has been activated is only in line with the procedure of our rule of law. If we point out how many consular cases there are – ladies and gentlemen, 650 000 per year, in addition to 400 000 visa applications or creations – then we know what is happening. If there have been individual cases, we're sorry. A reconnaissance was provided. When I think about how our Mrs Foreign Minister has negotiated in Turkey, I am very confident that these cases will also be clarified with the consequence she has shown in other negotiations. – As far as their political responsibility is concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22099	The next speaker is Mr Ledolter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22121	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! The agreements with Slovenia, the anti-corruption agreement with the United Nations and the other points that are now under way are really worth discussing here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is actually a pity for the time that we have to use to avert the scandalisation attempt at the opposition in which the whole team of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular the consulates, is being tried to suspect and miscredit it. It would be much better to talk about the fact that there is a very successful foreign policy of our foreign minister, or to mention, for example, that today an Islam conference is coming to an end, which is not only in the Islamic world, but also in international respect and recognition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why I would like to use the short time to recapitulate the facts and try to leave the church in the village. If we expect more than 1.2 million consular cases and visa cases over the last three years and then have to note that there have been irregularities in a sample of about 4,000 cases, then that is why, as the former Foreign Minister Jankovich has formulated, something has happened. It would be good for us to respect the high-quality work of our civil servants and to appreciate the use of those people who put in crisis situations, under the pressure of war events, of emergency situations of actions that may not entirely guarantee the quality of research. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has assured complete information. Everything has been done, the sorting of documents immediately, from the 27th century onwards. September, stop. Ladies and gentlemen, a huge difference: With us something has happened elsewhere, in the neighbouring country, there has been systematic legal bouts which have absolutely nothing in common with what we have. [[Abg. Oil: After hello!]] [[Abg. Oils: Completely wrong! That's not true at all!]] In the sense of Jankovitsch and the intention of our foreign minister, I would just like to appeal: Let us continue the successful path of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and let us not make our country bad, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22175	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Please take a seat, because we are going to vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement with the Republic Slovenia concerning the mutual representation of both States by their representative authorities with regard to the granting of visas for airport transit (Visum A), transit (Visum B) and short-term stay (Visum C), whose first paragraph of Article 1 is constitutional, shall be authorised in 982 of the Supplements. With regard to the aforementioned constitutional provision, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: United Nations Convention against Corruption in 1062 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on Foreign Policy, according to which the present State Treaty, within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Treaty, refers. 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously the case. Finally, we shall vote on the fact that the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language versions of this State Treaty within the meaning of Article 49(1). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act must be made known by the fact that they are involved in public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lunacek, Members of Parliament, on the complete cooperation of the Departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with regard to documents on visas to embassies such as Belgrade, Budapest and Bucharest. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:41:54]] 13. Point First reading: Request by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (674/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22272	This leads us to the 13th place. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22301	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With your pension harmonisation reform and pension reform, you have not made the Austrians feel more secure for state pensions. I should like to remind you that tomorrow’s “Kurier” quoted a survey that clearly shows that people continue to worry about state pension, while at the same time finding the headline: “The construction of the private pension is becoming more expensive”. The political credo that you represent here in this House, namely private care is the all-healing remedy, therefore does not seem to occur, because the Austrians' money bags have not become thicker, but narrower under their policies. That's where the question arises: Who can afford private care in the future? So you should reconsider your policy on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But in connection with these pension reforms, you have also introduced the corridor board, where you have had to make amendments twice. At the Corridor Board, you listed taxatatively where there is a right to vote, whether to purchase unemployment insurance for one year or to use the Corridor. In the last repair that you made, you have re-listed the types of terminations taxively and thus already allowed people the opportunity to have a real right to vote and possibly to obtain benefits from unemployment insurance. This simply leads to the exclusion of those people whose last service relationship ends by solution in the probation period or by non-indebted dismissal, for example for health reasons. The reasons given by you yourself in the explanatory statement that this is intended to eliminate a non-constitutional nature do not yet mean that the formulations you have made actually make improvements. This is the reason why we have tabled an application, which is intended to guarantee the right to vote and is aimed at: ‘The fulfilment of the requirements for the reference of a corridor board according to § 4 para. 2 APG does not preclude the right to benefits under this Federal Act, namely the unemployment insurance law, “at the same time as the requirements for early retirement pension in the event of a long period of insurance”. I would very much like you not only to make repairs, to eliminate the unconstitutional circumstances, but at last to give your consent to proposals and requests from us, i.e. the opposition that makes sense, because they would eliminate injustices for those people who suffer deterioration and injustices through your provisions. I hope that this proposal will not have to be in the house for another six months before it is discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22348	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22371	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! We will, of course, take a very close look at the SPÖ proposal and Mrs Silhavy's proposal. The ÖVP has already made a similar request here in the House in July. These proposals should not in themselves be rejected. You can also read at Federal Minister Dr. Martin Bartenstein's report that the use of early retirement is to remain voluntary at the corridor board. Of course, you also have to look at how the working relationship was solved. In any case, we need to find a long-term response for older workers, because all with 50 in retirement or unemployment, that is certainly not a solution. This is a fact that we should all be aware of.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22401	The next speaker was Mr Walch. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22423	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Silhavy criticised the pension reform in her statement. Mrs Colleagues, we, this government, have been the only ones who have finally created justice in the context of the harmonisation of pensions, which she has actually created. There were different pension levels, different retirement ages. Finally, there is justice. Let's just see which people could have retired at 52 or 53 years of age and how high their pension was and what pension the ASVGler received! Now there is justice at last. But, my colleague, I would have liked to have a request, although we will be discussing this in committee accordingly. The reason for the request is that it is not understandable why people who have a right to corridor board, but do not want to take advantage of them because of the high reductions, should be treated differently from other unemployed people. – You know very well that this is not the case if someone uses the corridor board. Furthermore, you say that in the future, an employer can cancel everyone by 62. The employer also has to pay the penalty he would have to pay if he cancels someone with 58 or 60. You know very well, Mrs. Colleague, that an employer who cancels an employee who is 50 years old. I have already exceeded the age of 10 years and was employed in the holding for at least 10 years, and a fine of up to three months must be paid. And that's what's going on inside, but we're going to discuss it intensively in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22457	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22479	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now quite horrified at the comments made by Mr Lentsch and Mr Walch, for I remember Mr Walch's motto: First, think or read at all times and then speak. [[Abg. Silhavy: Think, too!]] Mr Walch's speech was designed to give me the impression that he was speaking first before he reads the request, because what has now been said as a explanatory statement by Mr Walch has nothing to do with the request. On the other hand, Mr Lentsch's statement says that we need to find long-term solutions and that people should not be sent to the unemployed or to the pension at 50. [[Abg. Walch: Stand on the grounds of the applicant! Read!]] This has nothing at all to do with this request, which is exclusively about the fact that certain forms of termination of employment result in people being necessarily sent to the corridor board, and we only want to give them the option. The request of the Social Democrats is coherent, well-founded and consistent. It should therefore be seriously discussed in the Committee before the end of six months. I hope you prepare yourself too, colleague Walch.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22545	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 674/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[20:50:22]] 14. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Fees Act as amended by BGBl I 128/2004 (656/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22584	Now we come to the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22611	Mr President. High house! The proposal for a social-democratic parliamentary group in this House is ultimately about making living cheaper again. We face the situation that there are hardly any more permanent rental contracts. The rental contracts are limited in time, and the people, especially the young people, who receive only more temporary contracts for one year, have to pay the full fee each time. The legal situation so that I can make it clear here in this House is that someone who completes a temporary rental contract pays exactly the same fee as someone who gets an indefinite contract. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Jobs You're going to have to do this. There are students, there are young workers looking for an apartment. You get an apartment, but only one contract to one year, this will be extended again, and they pay the full fee each time. A person who receives an indefinite rental contract and, for example, ten, 15, 20 years can use this apartment pays exactly the same amount as a person who: a fixed-term contract to one year, which, however, if this contract is extended, must pay the same amount over and over again. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Council of Ministers, the package of housing rights was decided. As a social-democratic group, we are expecting to make housing cheaper again – and I would like to quote Mr Fuhrmann, who has expressly stated that it is also a concern for the Young ÖVP to make living cheaper again – that this request is being negotiated, at least in the judicial committee – and here I also hope for the support of colleague Maria Fekter – with the housing rights package. Finally: This proposal is designed to ensure that housing in Austria is again more favourable, particularly for younger people who receive only more temporary contracts. In this respect, I should like to ask you to be kind to our request or to deal with it in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22660	Next item is the report by Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22681	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. With the present application to amend the Fees Act, applicants require, inter alia, a fee for rental contracts of housing up to a period of six months or free of charge for the extension of existing rental contracts of housing. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Only at the extension!]] - Well, you're free of charge. The approach is a very good one, and the facts are also very superior, but I believe that we must be interested in an overall solution. This means that although this request goes to the Committee on Justice, I believe that in a further follow-up to the tax reform, we should also consider how we treat the tax system in general. We wanted to do this the last time. We started it too. I think that not only should it be a matter of renting rights, but - you will certainly be able to confess - I think that we should discuss this also in the Financial Committee and look at the tax system in general, because the overall income for the contract is far too low. That means that's my suggestion. My group is interested in an overall solution and not in a flick work, not in saying that you change something there and a little something there. Maybe you can think about it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22719	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22740	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, I know your innovative approaches and I also have to say that this, of course, has its accuracy and is superior whether should not be waived in the event of an extension of a due contract or in the event of a withdrawal of the time limit for a new fee. If I simply extend the contract silently, then it is unlimited and there is no charge, because in this case it is not a new written contract, but it has been concluded orally. If I give him time again, I'm sure you'll have to pay a fee. It's only interesting, I don't want to put this to you, but now you're trying to leave little space on the left, because city councillor or councillor, whatever he is now, Kaltenegger has already made this demand a long time ago. But I suppose it was your own idea, you didn't write it off from him. But, as said, to the left next to you, it seems that there is really no place. I am of the opinion that the rental contract fee has already been facilitated by the fact that some contracts would be cheaper, self-remuneration, or that VAT has been removed for the purposes of commissioning. So you're working on it. But I just think that the remuneration of rental contracts in general is a story that we should in principle abolish in the course of the treatment of bagatell taxes, because this brings more work for the landlords and administrators than it probably brings into the final effect. I therefore believe that, in the course of a tax reform, one should consider and abolish the tax system as a whole, and not now take it out small and small, otherwise we will not abolish the other small taxes either, because we say that we have already made a large number of individual actions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22782	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22804	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! They can all remember that in 2000, this government – at the time it was black and blue – announced – I quote from a press release by the Federal Chancellor: Living is getting cheaper! Well, de facto it is that we have new housing rights that facilitates the overall temporary rental conditions. If we have more temporary rental conditions, the number of rental contracts is of course increasing, so the reason for fees for rental contracts is so much the case. I was very grateful, Mr Neudeck, for your suggestion that this should be changed and can be considered. You said quite correctly, the landlord has nothing of it at all. Of course, we know that the Minister of Finance has something about it. And this is the only calculation that even the rental contracts that are under six months of age have to be paid. This is somehow quite crude in view of the announcement made, namely that living is to be cheaper. You all know that a certain percentage of three monthly rents then goes to the Minister of Finance, regardless of whether the lease is for six months, for three years or a permanent rental contract. I believe that this is a misunderstanding, and therefore I support this concrete proposal for an initiative aimed at abolishing these fees as a whole, because that would be the real contribution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – Yes, that would be the real contribution to really budget living! What does the Minister of Finance have? Do we want private contracts to be concluded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22849	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I assign the request 656/A to the Committee on Justice. [[21:00:25]] 15. Point First reading: Request by Members Theresia Haidlmayr, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends a federal law on the equality of people with disabilities (Federal Disability Equality Act - BGStG) and amends the Disability Regulation, the Federal Disability Act, the Federal Social Office Act, the Equal Treatment Act, the Federal Law on the Equal Treatment Commission and the Equal Treatment Procedure and the Federal Equal Treatment Act (662/A) (662/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22888	We arrive at the 15th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e22916	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== July 2005 was not a day of joy for disabled people in Austria. You know that, and that has now been published several times. - Anyone who wanted to know could read it. It was therefore not a day of joy because there is still no equality law that actually ensures the equality of disabled and non-inhibited people in all areas of daily life. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This law, which you passed on 6 June. It is important that the Austrian disability movement should not be allowed to take place on 1 July. I would like to add some of these points: For example, as regards accessibility, there is no rule at all that public transport must be made accessible in the next ten years when new purchases are made, but everyone can buy what he wants, when he wants, and how he wants it. Ladies and gentlemen! We now see that this is the case in the form of a typical example in the purchase of new mailboxes. Post AG creates new buses that are not barrier-free, and it is legitimate for them to do so because, despite the comprehensive disability equalisation law, you have prevented new purchases from being barrier-free. Ladies and gentlemen! They have also prevented the removal and omission of discrimination. ==References== January 2006 – because then the law enters into force – people with disabilities are discriminated against, then those who do so can do as often as they want, for discrimination is not prohibited in the future. There is no omission, and structural barriers that are discriminatory need not be eliminated. They can be maintained, the discriminating person pays only a “cash money” of up to €400 in pain money, but has changed nothing. The situation of disabled people will also become with 1. January 2006 and in the future do not improve if you maintain the law that you have decided in the form. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Therefore, as people with disabilities and in particular as a representative of the Austrian disability movement, we have left nothing but a proposal for initiative in Parliament, so that those essential points which are not included in this law simply enter into the law in order to create a real basis for discrimination against people with disabilities to finally belong to the past. I can still remember very well how Mrs. Partik-Pablé was then on 6 June. In July, he spoke about this law. She said you would have wanted a lot more, of course, but it wasn't inside anymore. It was therefore no longer inside because you bowed to the economy because you bowed to the Minister of Transport because you bowed down to Minister Bartenstein and because you bowed down to the large lobby of the Chamber of Commerce. – That's why it wasn't inside anymore! It would have been something inside if you just wanted it, but you didn't want it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, how you put your actions into practice, you prove on your own that you have raised essential points in your own government programme that you wanted to implement – you have promised us too! – e.g. the submission of a bundle law which eliminates discrimination, the enforcement of professional training, vocational access laws on discriminatory components, or the safeguarding of the barrier-free use of re- and new buildings. The eGovernment Act, according to which websites need to be made accessible, applies only from 1. January 2008. That is to say, you have clearly failed on this point, and therefore a law on equal treatment for the disabled is essential, which meets your own requirements. That is why the proposal for an initiative is necessary, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you are invited to make this law on disability equal treatment, which never deserves its name in this form, a law that really allows people with disabilities to have an instrument to defend themselves against discrimination and to ensure that discrimination is no longer allowed to take place in the future and that existing elements of discrimination are removed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, who now comes out and says I'm not right, that's not true, so what I'm talking about is stupid – I already hear what's going to come! – only needs to look at the websites of the corresponding disabled organisations. If I am not right, the disabled people in Austria are apparently not right either. – But we are right, only you must finally take note of our right! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23004	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. His welcome time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23027	Madam President. High house! My colleague, Theresia Haidlmayrhat, is right. The Federal Disability Equality Act does not exist yet – because it is not yet in force. ==References== January 2006 is in force, and it is the first time that it has succeeded in implementing a long-standing demand for disabled people and pouring them into law matter. All sides have made great efforts to legislate, especially officials and all stakeholders. Disabled organisations were also involved. This law should once be given a chance to prove itself. It shall enter into force on 1 January 2014. January 2006 in force, and we will see where it is good to see how the conciliation procedures are going to work out how to exploit the possibility of complaint and how accessibility is implemented. It may be – and it will be – that there will be need for improvement there and there, and we will take this into account. The law is evaluated and comes into the National Council in the form of the report on the situation of disabled people and is then discussed there. There we will also improve the law if it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23061	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23082	Madam President. High house! The law on equal treatment for disabled persons applies from 1. January 2006. Mr. Dr. Huainigg has just mentioned that there will be an evaluation. In the case of integrative vocational training, which is already in force in the third year of school, we also noted at that time that there will be an evaluation. – To this day, I have not heard of this evaluation. The proposals put forward by Mr Haidlmayr have already been put on the table in the course of the discussion on the law on the equal treatment of persons with disabilities, but they have not been able to address them on the part of the government groups. It is essential and important that accessibility should be introduced earlier. The law now states that it is only from the year 2015 that you need to think about how accessibility should look. – I think awareness-raising and awareness-raising in the area would work much better if you had done this before, but you did not bring it together. I would like to come to another aspect – in addition to the many other areas such as association action and the conversion of evidence – namely the disabled person's lawyer. A new job will be created, and the disabled lawyer will then also work. Since ex-minister Herbert Haupt is repeatedly proposed as a disabled lawyer, the following question already arises: If ex-minister Herbert Haupt becomes a disabled lawyer without a tender, this is another sign that the government fractions of ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ only bring their sheep into the dry, but leave disabled people in this area in the rain.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23120	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23157	I say something on several points, first of all to Mrs Haidlmayr. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are impatient. I am also impatient when it comes to asserting the interests of disabled people and improving the situation of disabled people. But, on the other hand, one must also note that there are different interests, and politics is now one thing to regulate a wide range of interests. With the Federal Disability Equality Act, it has simply been tried to perceive the interests of the disabled, but also to address the interests of the economy. I believe it – or it is absolutely necessary! – that we need to see progress, Mrs Haidlmayr, and that we should not deny that something has happened. It is not easy to go beyond the fact that many things have been enforced! Many disabled organisations were involved in the legislative process, and in many discussions... – Mrs Haidlmayr, I ask you to suppress this reflection once: [[Abg. Haidlmayr: But only at the beginning! Then they were thrown out!]] Hardly do I open my mouth and say something, answer or disprove me! – Listening You're listening to me, just like I've been listening to you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The disabled organisations have been involved. They expressed their concerns and made their suggestions. However, I would also like to revise: They said it was not a day of joy, and there was no equality law. – Of course it was a great day because an important step has been taken in the problem of disabled people! Of course, it's a law of equality, and it's called 1. In January 2006 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations Then we'll see what effects it has. Nor do I accuse you of talking stupidly, as you have put us here, but I would like to suggest that you do not judge the situation properly and that you do not see progress. I would also like to quote Mrs Haubner, the Minister for Social Affairs, who, on the occasion of the adoption of this law, clearly said: The law is not the end-point, not the end-line, but an important part, an important stop-over. – That means that everyone is interested in continuing to work on the law and to carry out improvements, but it was not possible to achieve more. Mrs Lapp, it is not at all true that the demands and the objections of the disabled have not been addressed. You know very well, it's for months – yes, for years! – discussed and debated this law. It is also not right that this Federal Disability Equality Act says that accessibility will only be discussed from 2015 onwards. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Of course!]] – That’s just not true! - No! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Of course! Read it!]] It is planned for a stage plan. The Federal Government has foreseen that all public buildings will be gradually accessible. Now I will address the topic of “Handed Advocates”: They criticize things that are not yet in the room! It's not in the room who becomes a disabled lawyer. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: The head has already signed in!]] – Yes, he can register! You can also register. [[Abg. May. Worm: Where should she turn?]] – Everyone can register! [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] But it has not yet been decided who will be, and I am convinced that a proper tender will take place. Concentrate Once you're on what's decided, but don't read coffee sud and don't criticize any things that aren't yet existing! [[Abg. Scheibner: The facts!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think we should be satisfied with what we have achieved, we should observe what's wrong, what's going wrong, and where we have to make corrections before we continue to put any ideas into space that are simply not real. [[Abg. Oils: When will it be signed out?]] - I think we're doing the best we can.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23324	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 662/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[21:17:09]] 16. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues on a federal law amending the road traffic regulations – StVO (672/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23364	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Scharer is speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23391	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This request concerns midwives who are allowed to leave their vehicle for the duration of the assistance at a road stop where the holding and parking is prohibited, if no parking space is available in the immediate vicinity of the place of stay of the person to be cared for. Ladies and gentlemen, there are more and more domestic births in Austria. The development is very good on and on itself. Considering that the Minister of Health – whether it's good or bad – is also present in the reform of the hospital, that birth centres should be closed in public hospitals, we think that we must also create the corresponding conditions for domestic births and for midwives. For the more than 1,700 midwives, a car is necessary for professional training, and the parking space not only in the central rooms is often difficult for midwives if they are to get to the private homes in good time. While doctors and outpatient diplomats caretakers and nurses during their This does not apply to midwives. Equality of midwives is more than justified due to the same activity. – In fact, it is incomprehensible and regrettable that the government parties submit the same bill to the Transport Committee on 28 November. He was rejected on 12 April. May in the National Council – without justification. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not really about great changes, but primarily about facilitating a profession, and secondly also about the fact that the women who release home can be sure that the midwives are also there in good time. I am therefore seeking reason so that we can carry out this, and I am also seeking to assign the request to the Transport Committee and to implement it quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23436	The next speaker was Mr Preineder. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have a minute of welcome speech. I would like to draw attention to this: The ÖVP club only has more than 2 minutes of total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23458	Madam President. High house! I should like to comment on Mrs Schahrer's request. I think it would be worth mentioning that the number of births has increased in Austria in recent years, around 700 a year, and this is very positive for our country. Otherwise, I believe it is important to discuss this request accordingly, because more births in this country also mean more domestic births. In Vorarlberg and Tyrol, this is about one percent of all births. We will try to discuss this proposal accordingly at the next meeting or at one of the next Transport Committee meetings and, if it really is about the next fundamental change in road transport regulations, we will also consider it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23488	Next, Mr Wittauer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23515	Mr Oellinger, are the housebirths not important enough to you? Madam President. We are basically in favour of discussing this. But there are many professional groups who want this derogation. We know that this exemption is also misused in many areas, including those of doctors and others. This is my problem in relation to this question, because especially in midwives not the emergency births are in the foreground, but in order of passing births. And if emergency situations arise, I think you'll call the doctor or rescue, and there's this exemption anyway. So when it comes to initiating a orderly birth, I think you can start looking for a parking lot if you're on time. That is why, in general, our opinion is more critical. Let us discuss what derogations we can remove because a lot of abuse is being done!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23552	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23573	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we know the sign “Arctician in Service, ” and we want the sign“ Hebamme in Service. ” Therefore, for various reasons, not least for equal rights reasons, we are also in favour of having a midwife parked in the event of a fast, uncomplicated birth. I have drawn from the speeches made by my previous speakers, especially from those of the ÖVP member, that this can also be a contribution to improving the birth rate in Austria. That is why I see the positive signal, and I think that we should also speak seriously about this request. The Transport Committee is here to do this. In my opinion, however, as far as midwives are concerned, as the future of the regulations so to speak, as well as the existence of the regulations – “the doctor in service” – is concerned, an essential question is already that of control, because, please, I know that often “the doctor in the service” is also stuck behind the windshield when the doctor does something different than his service. I therefore believe that we should also consider control, but in any case: Freeway for “Hebamme in Service”! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23603	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 672/A to the Committee on Transport. [[21:24:02]] 17. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Mr Ulrike Lunacek, Members of the European Parliament, on a federal law with which General Civil Code amended (715/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23646	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the floor is given to the applicant, Mrs Magistrate. Lunacek. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23673	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that this time, Mr Fekter and Mrs ÖVP may have another half-minute's speaking time to comment on this, because the last time, in the Civil Pact, it was so that the ÖVP had no “sufferer” speaking time. By the way, neither have the liberals; they have not even spoken today. I am already interested in seeing how this will look in the Committee. But perhaps at least my colleague, Mrs Fekter, has a few words to say – although I can already think of what she will say. But we'll hear that. Unfortunately, the legal equality of lesbians and gays does not have a tradition in Austria and has been based on the following patterns in recent years: There are committed NGOs, there are committed parties and MEPs, there is an international debate – and in Austria there is always something moving when the courts, whether the Constitutional Court, or the European Court of Human Rights, express themselves. Then, yes, you're ready to make smaller changes. It is not about minor changes to our greenery. It is simply high time that there is a global equality, an entire package that this waiting for equal rights for equal love finally has an end. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I know that many of you do not want to hear anything about it, although they probably have enough in their environment, in their family environment, in their circle of friends or friends or acquaintances – or at least a few – people who live lesbian or gay and who probably also tell them where the difficulties lie, where they do not have the same rights everywhere, although they already carry out the duties they assume for each other – but the rights are missing: in rental law, in inheritance law, in many other points. [[Abg. Elder: “Keep God! ”]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We can talk about all this!]] But to all of this, it is said by the government groups: Listen, hear nothing, want to see nothing, we don't want it! [[Abg. Scheibner: We can talk about all this!]] There is a total package of the Greens: One is the civil pact that we had the last time in the first reading and where, unfortunately, I still do not know – except via the media – what the government fractions think of it. The second part is marriage, the opening of civil marriages also for same-sex couples. I know, with many of you, it's gonna be called: No, never alive! That's terrible! What happens then? The marriages are destroyed! Ladies and gentlemen, these fears that you have fall upon yourself – quite simply – because what can destroy a heterosexual marriage or family if another couple – in that case, same sex – were to marry? What does one have to do with the other? - Nothing at all! So I'm curious about your arguments. Today I'm probably not going to hear that anymore. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, He's very simple. It is about inserting in § 44 of the ABGB that marriage can be made between sexual and sexual couples. – It is not an entire reform of marriage law that we demand here – because all of the marital law contains points that are already obsolete today, even for heterosexual couples; this is another chapter – but it is about finally taking a step here and saying: Equality, equal rights, that is, for all. In the last days, as well as being discussed about the media once again, when Minister of Justice Gastinger made a proposal for a registered partnership, Colleague Fekter once meant that she does not want to marry second class. Mrs Fekter, it would be quite easy: Then make a marriage first class so that finally lesbians and gays are no longer citizens of second class!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23747	Mrs Fekter's next speech. – Ladies and gentlemen, your club now has 2 minutes of total residence. With Mr Preineder, the speaking time was so short that time recording did not take up an additional minute. So 2 minutes total time left for the ÖVP. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23768	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Homosexual couples live in a community. As in this proposal, Mrs Lunacek, we reject a homage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Heterosexual communities and homosexual communities must be treated equally in accordance with ECJ law, so we will correct discriminatory provisions accordingly. Marriage rights for homosexuals, as required in this request, will not exist with the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23811	Next, Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23832	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The request of colleague Lunacek and friends is brand-current in view of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and he is very welcome from the point of view. The question is, what will finally happen with this request is whether, as expected, it will continue to be pushed to the long-term bank, whether the government parties will continue to wall in order to maintain their antique family image. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Lunacek and Sburny]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes, unfortunately!]] That'll show up. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is an “antiquated family image ”?]] My group has also made a request for a final decision over half a year ago, which has also been postponed to the long bank. This request would not create a special right for homosexuals, but rather would be the partial opening of marriage law within the framework of a registered partnership. It has already been mentioned: There is already such a registered partnership in 12 European countries. Austria is heading this way. Although international statistics are always cited and Austria is also referred to as a model: This is a long way to go. The train towards equal sex partnerships has, in any case, long gone – with you or without you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And if you do not declare yourself prepared to put in place the long-needed and overdue measures in this area, they will happen without you, at the latest in autumn 2006. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23889	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner came next. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23910	Madam President. Mrs Colleague, do not make any threats, please! But it's still a long time to prevent this picture you're painting. [[Abg. May. Worm: The woman Gastinger is our opinion!]] Mrs Lunacek, you know my opinion, and I have had it for many years – and had it also at a time when it has not been en vogue –: I am opposed to any discrimination against homosexuals and I am also very much in favour of it – and the Minister of Justice is also working on it – to draw up precisely those points that have been addressed, points where there are real discriminations: whether this is the right to visit, whether that is in the law of rental, or whether it is the case in other areas. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is discrimination!]] In part it has been repaired, in part there is certainly still a need to correct these things. But I'm telling you: Marriage is clearly defined. And where the company creates privileges, especially where cross-subsidisation is carried out with taxpayers or social security contributions, such as – I refer to the VfGH knowledge – in the case of non-contributory or co-insurance, there the company also has an interest. And this interest cannot be the fact that anyone lives together and that is, per se, important and interesting, but there are other interests. [[Call the SPÖ: “Irgendeer”!]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Why not?]] That's why I'm saying: These privileges should be family benefits. – Here we will find ourselves, and in this direction we will also work. Other: Against any discrimination – how and where and when and with whom someone lives – his private matter is, in every respect, against any interference, but also against any subsidisation with taxpayers' money or social security contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e23988	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 715/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:35:40]] Requests for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24021	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry by Dr Cap, colleagues on illegal trade with regard to sight marks and on the request for the setting up of an investigative committee of Members Mag. Lunacek, colleagues on illegal trade with Austria. As already announced, the applicants will first justify the two applications. The debate that followed will take place under one. Both requests have now been distributed to all MEPs. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request by Mr Lunacek, friends and friends, on the establishment of an investigative committee pursuant to § 33 GOG on illegal trade in Austrian sightings The National Council wants to decide: An investigation committee shall be set up to examine: 1. Extensive information on events related to illegal trade with regard to sight marks in Austrian consulates. 2. The investigative committee shall, by means of surveys of oral and written information on the subject-matter of the investigation and by taking into account the files relating to the subject-matter of the investigation, examine all matters concerning legal and political responsibilities. 3rd. In particular, it should be clarified: at what times and to what extent the accusations have been made known in the relevant departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior; At what time the former head of the Benita Ferrero-Waldner division has heard of the accusations; Whether and at what time there has already been information about a possible illegal trade in visas under the term of office of the current Federal Chancellor and former Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel; whether and to what extent employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Internal Affairs were involved in the illegal trade in visas; Whether there have been attempts in the two resorts to hide the illegal trade in visas and who is responsible for it; Why there is no transparent procedure including. there are grounds for granting visas to applicants; Why the control mechanisms have failed, or have failed. why they were not reinforced and improved after the first accusations had become known; Why, in the light of the first allegations, there was no specific inspection mandate concerning the visa issue in 2002 but only the general one; the success of BMI liaison officers stationed in Belgrade in reducing visa trading; Why, despite the known accusations, the documents for the issuing of visas in the messages have continued to be destroyed; Why, according to the information provided by the German authorities, concrete investigations have only been started in Austria; The Committee of Inquiry shall consist of 11 members, who shall distribute themselves to the parliamentary clubs as follows: 5 ÖVP, 4 SPÖ, 1 Freedom, 1 Green Reasons: Since 2001, there has always been information – including during the 2004 presidential election campaign – in various media that there has been illegal trade in and around the embassies in Belgrade and Budapest, and there are also officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs involved. During the research carried out by the German authorities on the visa issue in Germany, they also drew attention to the fact that persons working with a Schengen visa issued by an Austrian Embassy had been attacked in Germany without the appropriate authorisation. This information was also forwarded to the Austrian authorities, which then began to investigate for the first time. According to media reports, thousands of illegal visas were awarded against pay at the Embassy in Budapest in 2002 and 2003, even to other embassies such as Belgrade and Bucharest. ==References====External links==* Official website In addition to the criminal legal dimension to be clarified by the judiciary, their lawyers raise the question of political responsibility in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It is difficult to imagine that the superiors of the people now accused for years have not noticed any of the criminal activities. It is also completely unclear why, despite the public accusations, hardly any measures have been taken to clarify; that, despite the unusually increased number of visas issued, neither the BMAA nor the BMI have become illegitimate and started investigations; furthermore, it is clear that at least one official who has raised awareness of the accusations has been moved - however, the accusations have not been followed. According to media reports, the successor of the now accused consular official informed his superior that he was offered to continue the "visa practice as before". All this information indicates that it is present in the outside and/or outside. in the Ministry of the Interior, while repeatedly trying to point out to each other that nothing or at least too little has been done to clarify these accusations and stop illegal trade in visas. These procedures require parliamentary clarification of political responsibility. In formal terms, the Members of this House are calling for a debate on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24235	We are now going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speakers having a speaking time of 10 minutes for each reason. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the applicant, Mr Dr Cap, receives the floor. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24266	Madam President. High house! It was known that today we will make a request for the establishment of an investigation committee in the Visa Office. It was also known that there will be an application from the Greens that the extermination process of these positively completed forms should be stopped. And hardly were both things known today, in the afternoon at 5 p.m., a broadcast under the title: ‘Visa affair: Foreign Minister shall stop routine detonation.’ To do this, you have to say: She says she's had this since 27. September stopped. – The press shares it on 16 November. November at 5.26 a.m. This has to be a very funny press department, which has taken two months to make this press release and point out that it is the 27. September already that day on which this was stopped. [[Abg. Neudeck: Please!]] There you have to add: There was an extension in June 2005 of the minimum duration of destruction of the positive application forms from one to two years. By the way, you have to ask yourself: In view of what the EU Consular Regulation, which Mrs Foreign Minister quoted last week in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, says. In response to the question as to how the destruction of these positive forms would actually be, it simply referred to an EU Consular Regulation, as read in Parliament's correspondence, as follows. Here is written: “With regard to the data material, Plassnik referred to relevant EU directives, which provide for the separation of files after a year (in case of positive modesty),...” “Provisions”! – I noticed at the time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that she wanted to assume that we actually have the EU’s mission to destroy the files after a year! – However, if you look into this EU Consular Regulation, you can read in it: ‘When issuing visas, the retention period for the application form shall be ‘at least one year’, including with positive acceptance. That means she can keep it for two years, three years, four years, five years, six years – seven years, no matter what – but she doesn't have to destroy it after a year! [[Abg. May. Molterer: No, a hundred! 200!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I'm for 300!]] So why does she tell us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs such a shame, with this tone?, I wonder. [[Abg. May. Molterer: 300 years is the minimum! – No: I apply for 400 years! No, 500 years!]] – No, no, you can then express yourself on the many points that are, of course, completely open. [[Abg. Neudeck: Maybe we should lift them in the National Library!]] It's going on like this. ==References====External links== The Commission’s commissioner on the Enlightenment of the Visa Affairs, Peter Jankovitsch, on the question of how these devastations are, explained the following – I quote literally from the “Kurier” –: ‘One will probably have to stop there until the Commission takes up its activities.’ This is the President of the Commission, appointed by Ms Plassnik, for this visa affair, and he was appointed on 14 November. ==References====External links==* Official website A stop had already been made in September, and at a time when you think you're going back to that, in June 2005, which was extended to two years, and in view of the fact that there were no more files in reality until mid-2004. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't you trust Peter Jankovitsch? Is that a criticism of Jankovitsch?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: A critique of Jankovych! Interesting: Cap criticizes Jankovitsch!]] There is nothing more of positively completed forms – at least until mid-2004. Residual stocks still exist. To that end, we have to say – and this is also said in the “parliamentary correspondence” and in the issue – that only in Belgrade are the 30 000 visa applications to be made. That means there are thousands of thousands of thousands of visas that seem to have been bought! That's not meat, that's not a little thing, please beautiful! We have been trying to get light into the dark for some time now, because we just want to know how it really happened. But they refuse us to work this out clearly. Just one example: Our colleague Peter Schieder asked a question in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was then answered in writing; I have a copy of it here. One of Peter Schieder's questions to Mrs. Foreign Minister was: “When were you personally informed of any abuses?” – She replied: “I was elected 27th. September 2005 informs that a former and an active employee of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs was arrested for suspicions relating to visa proceedings.” That wasn't the question! The question was: “When were you personally informed of any abuses?” – I would like to say to you: Since 2001/2002 these accusations have been made. The woman Ferrero turns herself up and says: Don’t listen, see’ nothing, know’ nothing! – Sure what happened there was a “Schützt Ferrero!” action. Now comes the next act by Secretary-General Winkler, who has already indicated in a wordplay here today: ==References====External links== It's been in the air for a long time on September. He's only been in the air for five hours, as I can see when I look at the clock, and no longer, at least he has suggested that he's been spiriting around for a long time. And now there is slowly a “Schutzt Foreign Minister Plassnik!” action because it is increasingly beginning to suffocate and weave itself into this matter. Next interesting point: The chairman of the committee Peter Schieder wanted to know: “What was the exact mission of the special inspection at the Austrian Embassy Belgrade in 2002?” – The Foreign Minister’s reply: ‘The exact order included a general inspection of the ÖB Belgrade via the order of the department management, which included the consular area, including the field of view.’ “With it was” – go check!, was the order. But we wanted to know if the order was: Check if there's a visa scandal! This is the interesting in truth. At any rate, the general inspector Manfred Ortner took place on 2 August. In November, in Pro7 on television, he said he had no mission to investigate this visa affair. Now I'm wondering, What did he have: an assignment, no assignment, what assignment? I'm telling you, this is a crisis management, which is a disaster. They're getting more and more involved instead of working out. To this extent, this is a cover-up action that is taking place. Just as the description of what this Commission, chaired by Peter Jankovitsch, is supposed to do. Peter Jankovitsch says in the “Kurier” of 14. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 'The Commission's work should be forward-looking: How does a house, an authority, have to be organized so that something like this doesn’t happen again?” – As far as the chairman is concerned. In the written reply, the foreign minister suddenly says: ‘The Commission’s mission is to clarify the allegations without delay, to identify any misunderstandings and to make proposals for improvements to a system of non-useful visual recognition.’ So there must have been several changes in the defence and cover-up strategy somewhere. Then: ==References== On October 27, there was a Council for Integration. No speech on September, on the ceasefire of the file, as regards the positive completion of the visa applications. Why not? Why did Mrs. Minister of Foreign Affairs have on 20 July? You didn't say that on October? Then the Foreign Policy Committee came last week, 10. November: The Minister of Foreign Affairs has over 27 years of age. Nothing said again September, nothing came! Today, suddenly, two months later, one week after the Foreign Policy Committee, one month after the Council for Integration, the 27. Invented September! And Mr Winkler, the Secretary of State, seems to be playing in the bad game. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What's going on here? Why, then, do you actually oppose the setting up of an investigation committee? Well, I know why – that was just an academic, almost rhetorical question: A committee of inquiry in this situation shall end with the resignation of at least the foreign minister because it participates in this cover-up process. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] That's it, yeah, yeah! Look, I'll tell you something. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's a serious thing. This is probably about tens of thousands of visas purchased. A very serious thing. That seems to be the issue of the destruction of anti-inhibition evidence by at least June 2004. This is about the fact that the Council for Integration and the Committee on Foreign Policy on clear questions of opposition have been given false answers, exchange answers, manipulative answers. I'll tell you: We take our task seriously as an opposition in the interests of the Austrians, and we do not like that, and therefore there is this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. And I'll tell you: This is not the last debate today. It is not the last debate! It'll go on! We want a merciless reconnaissance. No matter who's affected! No matter who's affected! I say this twice; I don't care who's affected by it. There must be cleanliness in the foreign office, as soon as possible. Don't be against it, otherwise you'll be excused for this cover-up action!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24430	To the request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Lunacek is the applicant. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs Mag. Lunacek.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24451	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap has already explained a great deal of the points that are being debated here and the reason why it is necessary to set up an investigation committee. Let me look again at some aspects. If State Secretary Winkler said in the afternoon how important it is to acknowledge that many officials of the Foreign Office work correctly and that the citizens also have the right to work properly, I can only agree with that. That's not the point. It is about those cases where citizens have been denied the right, namely those who have paid nothing, so that they can obtain a visa. They're the one. And the others are those who also have a right to be treated correctly if they make applications, but because they don't pay for it, they may not get the visa, or because they don't have contacts with those who give them invitations, with which they then have better access to the corresponding posts. They have a right to be correct! It is about reviewing this, namely the political responsibility for why it has not happened correctly for years in individual messages. Indeed, even criminal investigations have been carried out to determine whether this was correct, and the judicial system is taking care of it. It is about clarifying the political responsibility why no one has noticed or did not want to notice anything here for years. And this is something that Parliament is very concerned about. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is not about blackmailing or saying that it is all terrible what is happening there, but about clarifying how those incidents, which are now the subject of the prosecutor's office, have been able to happen for years – if it is true – unhindered. It's about clarifying this. Mr Cap has already mentioned many points where it is completely unclear what happened. Leave You're gonna tell me something. We are not concerned with this issue, which seems to have sold thousands of visas illegally here, and which Austrian officials have participated in using for that perhaps some say: If we don't issue any more visas, we won't let any foreign visitors into the country at all! That is why we are not – so that no one can misunderstand us! – but it is a matter of dealing with a practice that makes it possible for people to visit this country, to be economically active here, but not to buy it, and that this is not covered up when such a thing happens. It's got to be clarified. Let me address some of the points that have been raised there. The most striking point, just today, is the finding of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at 4:58 p.m. that has been since 27. In September, six embassies ordered to cease the destruction of the documents on visas. This afternoon, after the Committee of Inquiry's applications were announced and after my request had been announced in the course of the debate on the anti-corruption convention, there is suddenly the information that has been stopped for almost two months. Can you tell us why the Foreign Minister did not tell us this in committee last week? – Mr Scheibner is now saying, because I have just made the request, the Foreign Minister has the right to tell us this only today, and not a week ago, what she claims has been doing since 27. September white. [[Abg. Scheibner: You did not submit the request until today!]] Mr Scheibner, this is really a chuzpe! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If the Minister knew already a week or a month ago in the Foreign Affairs Council that she or someone else in her home had been in her home on 27 July. September has arranged that, why does she tell us only today? [[Abg. Scheibner: Because you didn't ask!]] This requires a parliamentary committee of inquiry and clarification of political responsibility. I can already imagine that the Foreign Minister Plassnik is extremely unpleasant to have to clarify things that have happened under her predecessor and perhaps even under the predecessor, namely the current Chancellor's bowl. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Now we know it, now it's out!]] She has to clarify this now, and I can imagine that she is very, very unpleasant. I think none of us would like to be in this situation, but it needs to be clarified anyway. [[Abg. Großruck: Maybe you can go back to Emperor Franz Joseph!]] It has been known for years, and the Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner, if she were still a minister now, would have to speak and answer why she did not give the mandate in 2002. It's interesting to see that on 20 July. On October 10, 2005, a speaker from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in an APA broadcast says – listen carefully!” –: The Inspector General was entrusted with an internal audit in 2002 after the accusations were made known. – That is to say, according to an employee of the Foreign Office, an extra examination was required at the time. However, in the written answer to the questions we put in the committee last week, we say: “The exact mission included a general inspection of the Austrian Embassy Belgrade on behalf of the department management, which included the consular area, including the field of visibility.” – No word that there was a test order after these incidents became known. The general inspector himself, who was commissioned at the time, has also observed to PRO 7 Austria that he did not have the task of specifically clarifying these accusations. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: We already know that! That's what the cap has already told you!]] – What's right now? There are various statements, and this will not be clarified by the judicial system, nor is it its task, but it is the task of this House. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, want these accusations to no longer be constantly raised, that these and many other accusations that there has actually been illegal trade in visas cease, then, I think, it is also your job to agree to this request for the establishment of an investigation committee and to help yours to ensure that these accusations do not stick to the Foreign Minister Plassnik, but that it is explained who was responsible and what is being done about it. Another point is: Why do the control mechanisms in the house not work? One of the questions that the Minister did not answer me last week referred to the fact that the successor of the now accused consular official, when he came to Belgrade, offered an Austrian entrepreneur who was now in extradition detention to continue the visa practice as before. He said in court – the lawyer reported this – that he had told his superior. - Who was this superior? Who was that? Why didn't he pass it on? Why was that not examined more closely? Where did the internal control mechanisms fail here? Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are talking about: The external control seems to have failed. This must not be the case that such accusations remain in the room, that political responsibility is not clarified, that it remains in the room, it has been concealed, it has not been controlled – it has been able to continue selling the visa, and nothing has happened. This is damaging to the Austrian image both domestically and abroad. This harms those people who want to go to Austria who want visas, and this also harms officials of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Before it is finally clarified where this political responsibility is located, before it is clarified, I am afraid that this issue will not disappear from the media and the public, and I therefore urge you once again to give your consent to this request for the establishment of an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24575	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24599	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Before I comment on your requests, I would really like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on two things. First of all: It has a special role to play in the Turkey question, a particularly positive, honest role in this Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But this is not the subject now!]] Secondly, With the Islam Conference in the last three days, we have reached a completely new dimension in how we deal with religions, and we will probably not notice the effects that this conference will have until the next few months and years. A great praise from Mrs. Foreign Minister! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] It is, of course, Mr Cap, a theme which really also gives answers to the burning problems of this time, that is to say. I always wonder at you, with what precision you get the wrong topics on such things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you say, Mr Cap, we need to protect Mrs Plassnik, I ask myself: Who? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Before yourself!]] Before you, Mr. Cap? – No, there you are with your requests for a shoe number too small! We have seen in all your mistrusts in the past that, interestingly, they are always directed against those ministers who are particularly good on the road. [[Abg. Oils: The forks, the grass, the sickl, the head!]] This is obviously your strategy: We are doing a bit of desavowing the popular ministers, and you are now also trying this at the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Just, with these applications, it's actually a friendly fire, a shot in the knee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of Red Green, we are talking about visas, because there has been a real visa scandal in Europe, but not in Austria, but in Germany. The red-green cult figures Otto Schily and Joschka Fischer were the main operators, and I tell you what impact this has had. Otto Schily has signed a visa agreement with Russia. The result was that one year after the total number of visas increased by 15.2 percent; the number of two-year visas increased by 268 percent, and the visas for three years had a plus of 1,764 percent! That is, Otto Schily and Joschka Fischer have opened door and gate for Russians, for Ukrainians. They have flown into the European area... – Yes, we have to talk about it, because it was really a scandal for which the ressorts were personally responsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. But they didn't hide! They said in the committee!]] I know this is unpleasant for you, but the population should know: Wherever the left are on the row, the boundaries are uncontrolled! That's the point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let's see what's going on in Germany! The German workers come to us, the German entrepreneurs come to us, the German students come to us. The Germans fled from their own government, for which they got the Russians. This is the result of their policy! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and congratulation with representatives of the liberals.]] And that's different in Austria. Yes, there is a problem that suspects that two staff members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may have committed a mistreatment. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Corruption suspect!]] This is now being followed very consistently by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's the point. And that's not an affair, it's a problem you have to solve in the organization. Summary: It's actually relatively simple. In Germany, the members of the government open the borders, in Austria, there is very consistent action against abuse. In Germany, the investigation committee was justified, and in Austria it is not justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oil: Ah yes!]] Last sentence, Mr Cap: I also feel a little bit like a preventive mistrust against Peter Jankovitsch,that we now want to prevent another committee of inquiry. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] I say: Wait! . We do not agree with this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24768	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24790	High house! The recently-flooded visa affair actually leaves behind a number of unexplained questions. Last But at the end of the day the truth comes to light. This is not just a matter for Mr. Ortner, who was still on the 2nd floor. November 2005 stated that no one would have asked him to investigate the Belgrade Embassy for visa trading, although the squats had long puddled off the roof that something “is lazy in the state of Denmark”. No one has noticed that hundreds of companies, if not thousands of invitations, have always spoken out the same thing, but no one has been following it for years. In particular, cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior does not seem to work. How do the two ministries communicate? Today, the Secretary of State said: Since then, we have been in regular contact with the Ministry of the Interior, which is in charge of the issuing of visas, and we have contacted the judicial authorities to ensure full cooperation with the investigating authorities. What does that mean? – Interior Ministry, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you can decide what you want. We will still have to hold our hands very long, with regard to the cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with regard to the supervision of experts, who was really responsible for it. Secondly, Obviously, it only took the German authorities to find out until the Austrian side had begun. In February 2005, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the APA, claimed that, contrary to Germany in Austria, such abuse is only very difficult because one has a completely different visa system and is much more restrictive. I mean, such a sentence really mocks every description after there's been this scandal for four years. For four years there was suspicion, and then one dares to bring the German authorities around and introduce themselves on the nose and make fun of their visa scandal, which was a political decision. And you say that's a criminal thing. I believe Mrs. Minister that she is personally for the complete investigation and removal of abuse. [[Abg. Scheibner: Come on!]] It is certainly also wise to convene an expert committee, no question at all. Nor is it a question of expressing any suspicion against the Office of Foreign Affairs, as you did in the Committee, but for one thing you have to decide now: Is that a single case, or is that something structural? If this is a criminal case now, I ask: What do you need an expert commission for? This is a crucial point. There can be a criminal case. Okay, then the judicial authorities are supposed to find out, and the case is cut off. But what do you need an expert commission for? That's the question! It is quite obvious that there are structural weaknesses as regards, on the one hand, the exchange of information within the Austrian authorities, in particular between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, but also the exchange of information between the authorities in the Schengen area. Zero information each other! The Minister also made this sound in the Committee. Above all, it is apparent that there is no institutionalized procedure within the ministry, such as such cases of corruption and abuse, or also of crime. It can also be crime. In any case, there is no effective system of control, no effective procedure, although one already knows that it is a weak point when people want to work to thousands at the authority and a visa. There has been no preventive measures in this regard. And if the suspicion is true, it will go down until at least 2000 but perhaps even until 1998. Therefore, the logical consequence is an investigation committee. I am convinced that there will still be some Members who will agree to our request and to the request of the Greens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24826	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. Mr Klubobmann, also for you, five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24848	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already interesting how it is difficult to argue this need of an investigation committee right now. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Simple!]] – It was apparently not that simple. Mr Posch has now gone here and said that if no expert committee had been set up, but only the judicial system had been examined, then it would have been said that aha, a criminal case, we do not need an investigation committee. But because Mrs Foreign Minister has also set up an expert commission under the chairmanship of former Foreign Minister Jankovitsch, this is an indication that something is lazy. [[Abg. Gaál: That is a wrong conclusion!]] There was some political clarification and therefore a committee of inquiry. This is really a wonderful logical line of reasoning. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: And the liberals are for it!]] – It may be with you in the club session that this is a logical argumentation chain, but it is not really serious if you take yourself seriously. Perhaps this is also the reason why Cap and Posch are justifying this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry and not the real expert on foreign policy in the SPÖ Club. This is Mr Schieder, who has asked his questions very consistently and very seriously in the Committee and has also received the answers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is the only serious one!]] There will already be its reason why there is also a distinction between party tactics/party politics and a serious foreign policy in a parliamentary club here in the speeches. That too speaks volumes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If Mr Cap here needs ten minutes of speaking time to highlight only this one story with this statement by the Foreign Minister on the destruction of files, then that is quite interesting. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Nothing to say!]] All the speaking time only concerned this one point. Please, there will be a note or a written order – I assume it will be. You can see when it has been dated, or there will be a distributor. We really don't need a committee of inquiry to do this. If you ask a question in the Committee next time, you have not asked these questions. And answers to unsolicited questions are difficult to give. I am sure that Mrs Foreign Minister will also answer this question. You have announced that there will now be a number of such applications for the establishment of an investigation committee. I am almost disappointed because I am always looking forward to the requests for a committee of inquiry on interception hunters, which now seem to be not coming for some time. But perhaps the overflight of the Eurofighters at the parade on the National Day was so impressive that you saw: We'd rather let that stay. A million Austrians have rejoiced, so again we do something different for party tactics. That is where we are taking the foreign policy, the EU Presidency or so, no matter what. We've got another topic to go in, so to speak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I've already said this today: Now, first of all, justice is to take place, because a committee of inquiry is intended to highlight political responsibility or backgrounds that are being examined on the grounds of suspicions arising, for example through the judicial surveys. You should let the justice work. So far, the criminal offences have not even been investigated accordingly. We do not yet know how this abuse happened. We do not know whether it is really the case, as Mrs Lunacek said, that perhaps visa applications that have been justified have not been positive, because they have not been paid. & Reverse: We do not know whether visa applications, which would not have been positive, have only been positive, because they have been paid, that is, genuine abuse of office, and in which cases. It is up to the judicial authorities to clarify this, and we should wait for the outcome. The Commission, so criticised by you, chaired by Mr Jankovitsch, will also have an important work to do, and then we will decide whether there is political responsibility or clear evidence on it. Then, of course, we will also need to discuss the establishment of a committee of inquiry. That's our responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Mr. Herzegovina, but it's all in a row. You're frustrated now because it's not about the interceptors. Then some of you have at least one wheel: once a foreign office, then again a interception hunter; then you need not only to make calls, but can also carry out your party polemics here from the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For us, this is a serious issue in a very sensitive area, and there must be no question of it. That's what I'm saying in all clarity! [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] We will look at these investigations very closely and hope that this criminal case will remain and that there will be no political developments. If it is different, we will discuss it again. But for party policy in this area we are not to have!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24977	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Also for you 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e24998	Madam President. – You can say “oye” quietly. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: We also know why!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What I have taken from the debate so far is: The only thing that's worked, the only thing that's worked so far is the skewer. It has worked, which has worked, at least until the end of 2004. After the affair – according to justice documents – started seven years ago and after the files up to 2004 – we do not argue about whether September or November 2004 have been put into the tear-wolf, you can be quite sure that most documents are already done by time. – No, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner says, will not be. Somewhere you may find a few pieces of paper, which might have been lost on the way to the drawing wolf. [[Abg. Scheibner: There you can't make an investigation committee if...!]] – Mr Scheibner! Yes, this hope still exists that a few pieces of paper are left. The dimension you preach here, of course, that these files will, of course, come into the tear after a year of course, you have to imagine! [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't spell the papers either!]] And on another occasion – see Security Police Act and the like – you want to make it clear to us that citizens' call data, of course, must be stored for at least one year, but better would be two more years. That's quite clear. Financial and tax data must be stored for even seven years. Only where an authority could be held responsible will be concluded after a year. No, please, no more! That is something I am taking away from this debate and what you are defending with your attitude, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: Very clumsy argumentation!]] There you create the relationships between the rights of the citizens, even between those who requested visas in Belgrade or Budapest or Bucharest and did not receive them properly, because they could not pay lubrication money because they could not bribe the officials. They say that this should naturally be examined – but the files are stupidly gone. This is what I heard from you, Mr Scheibner. And I took something else from this debate. Lawyers who advise asylum seekers should be criminalised as a tractor, but employees of consular departments who issue visas with lubricating fees do not know anything about this. You have to investigate this, and we can't accuse any officials of it. Of course not! No, no one is allowed to be unjustly suspected. Although it should have been so, a thorough examination must be carried out, but of course not retroactive. Mr Jankovitsch, too, must not look retroactively, but forward to improving the work of the Authority and perhaps reducing the period of separation to six months. This is not possible because there is the EU Consular Regulation. That's the only point. But, of course, the best way is to do so so that nothing is revealed, Mr Scheibner. And that is the case, your group should be quite concerned. In 2002, an employee at the Embassy in Belgrade has already reported that there are problems. Mr Edelmayr, Member of the Parliament from Upper Austria, was with the Minister in 2001. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not from us!]] In 2002, an employee from the Consular Authority reports that there are problems. What happens to the employee? - Get away from her! Moving, where she can certainly no longer report these incidents, best to Helsinki or anywhere else. These are realities that you have to face, ladies and gentlemen. Don't come with me with the Federal Republic of Germany! That's the highest thing on the whole. They say there was something quite criminal in the Federal Republic. - Nothing was criminal! No one has paid lubricating fees for visas, but there you have also come up with it in the context of intensive consultation in an investigation committee – now be careful! – that some of the people who believed that they were criminals who had arrived in Germany with visas were traveling there with the visas from Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] They were on their way with these visas from Belgrade. This is really typical of your way of running politics and concealing things! You have to imagine that! That is why there is great excitement in the Federal Republic of Germany, but it is not to be examined in Austria. That is why a committee of inquiry is needed.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e25106	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Cap's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I would also like to mention the request made by the honourable Members. Mr Lunacek, colleagues, voted to set up an investigation committee. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-11-16-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00127_d7e25158	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed applications 727/A to 741/A have been tabled. Questions 3611/J to 3634/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 10 p.m. This is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
