ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2521	The meeting was opened. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen in the House. The Official Protocol of the 115. Meeting of 6. In July 2005, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Grossruck, Dr. Einm, Mag. Muttons, Rossmann, Wittauer and Mag. Lunacek. [[09:15:37]] Assignments
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2558	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2674	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 4, 7 to 9 and 12 and 13 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2698	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 123 minutes, Free Parliament Club 84 minutes as well as Green 91 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debate from 9.15 a.m. to 12 p.m.: first of all one speech per group of 12 minutes, then a member of the government with 15 minutes, then one speech per group of 10 minutes, then a member of the government with 10 minutes, then one word per group of 5 minutes, and finally one word per group of 5 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the remaining speaking time will be equally distributed between the President-in-Office of the Council and the political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak. There is agreement that actual corrections will only be called after the television broadcast, i.e. after 12 o'clock. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimous. We shall therefore proceed in this way. [[09:17:38]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (975 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, with which the School Organisation Act, the 5th. School-organisations- law-novelle, the compulsory schooling principle law, the schooling law 1985, the compulsory schooling law 1985, the schooling law, the schooling law for professionals, the Federal Law on Schools for the Training of Physical and Sports Teachers, the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Law, the Federal Law on the Principles for Agricultural and Forestry Vocational Schools, the Federal Law on the Principles for Agricultural and Forestry Vocational Schools and the Federal Law on the Evaluation of Vocational Matures (School Law package 2005) and on the amendment 487/A (E) by Mr Beate Schasching, colleagues, on the renaming of the subject of 'life training' in'movement and sport'; and on Amendment 469/A (E) by Mrs Ddr. Erwin Niederwieser, colleagues on quality offensive for schools (1044 d.a.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 620/A (E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, colleagues, on the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee on the Future (1046b.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 630/A (E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, Members of Parliament on the right to be served in the afternoon (1047 p.a.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 589/A (E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, Members and colleagues on the school crash (1049 A.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2806	We shall now proceed to points 1 to 4 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Brosz has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time is 12 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor. – Just before the end of the speaking time I give a bell sign, then you know: Final rate!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2836	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Today, we are discussing the so-called school package 1, those measures that you, as the Federal Minister of Education, are putting above all on the results of the PISA study. When you recall the PISA study, you know, there were some very central statements that did not shed a particularly good light on the Austrian education system. Among other things, 20 to 25 percent of Austrian students – 15 to 16-year-olds – have massive deficits. They have massive deficits in the language field, in the mathematical field. So that's a big one. Number of students who will have extremely serious difficulties in their further career de facto. [[Unrest in the hall.]] I must note that for these students Your school package does not provide for any measure.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2868	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd ask you to lower the sound level and stop talking! There is no hearing of the speaker at the Bureau in front of loud murmuring. Please, Mr Brosz.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2887	The second central point: Hardly a country has such a large social background in the school area as Austria. The Austrian students are extremely dependent on how the situation in their parents is on education and income. If Austrian students have parents who do not have higher education, it is still such that their chances are very limited. I think that this is a witness of poverty for a country as rich as Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The third big point: We don't have an extended support system in Austria. Private assistance is one of the growth sectors in Austria. There's hardly any area that's so colorful. – Economically, yes, it’s very pleasant. The question is: Who pays it? and: Can a country be satisfied with the fact that there is private support, private assistance instead of school funding? – I think Austria has earned itself a better school system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last point I would like to address today is: We know that the academic rate in Austria is much lower than that in many other European countries. We know that the rates of transition from the schools to the universities depend on the international comparison. I would just like to give you an example because we are discussing access restrictions today. You know as well as I do that Finland, the PISA victory country, has defined a political goal. This policy objective is to: 80 percent of the maturants are expected to receive a study place in Finland. We have 30 percent in Austria and are now discussing whether we can perhaps move towards 50 percent. You see, there's a massive need to catch up. In view of this fact, I really think it is inadequate to discuss access restrictions without increasing the number of places of study. These restrictions on access will result in fewer Austrian students having places at universities, and that is simply the wrong answer to a problem that we have known for years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now that I have been talking about what should actually be inside this school package, but not in it, which we cannot vote on today, because we can only vote on what is being presented to us, I now come to the core of matter. These are a number of changes that are essentially formal adaptations, such as the hotly anticipated change in the subject of “life training” in “moving and sport”. We can all be glad that this is a “great development” in the school system. Special schools are renamed funding schools – this is also apparently a “large throw”. There are two things that deserve to be looked closer. On the one hand, this is the five-day week in compulsory schools. There is also a need to say that over 90 percent of compulsory schools were already five-day schools; with the rest of them, this will be the case now. I believe that the quality of the school system will not increase dramatically. But the central point inside is the afternoon care. I'll say it in advance: The Greens will therefore not agree to this legislative proposal because afternoon care is completely inadequate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] If you are intervening from the ÖVP here, a very simple question: What prevents you from ensuring a legal right to afternoon care in Austrian laws? We would have discussed every form that ensures that. We didn't demand that every single school be in the afternoon care. We also did not demand that it be all day run schools, where every student or student must be in school all day. We could have discussed all of this. The only thing we've insisted on and where you said it's not going to be is a legal claim. Now you make the following arrangement: that from 15 students who are registered – by the way in this case at a school – must be offered afternoon care. There is still a very big obstacle if you really want to run all day schools, where limited lessons are given with better rest breaks, with the possibility of switching between teaching and support measures: Then two thirds of the parents have to agree at the school location. Two thirds of parents must agree that a day school can be conducted! This is an obstacle that you can hardly overcome at an Austrian school. No legal claim exists in any form. Our proposal would have been: Every parent, every student should have the right to choose whether to attend a conventional school, whether she attends a school with afternoon care, i.e. morning lessons and afternoon care afterwards, wishes or whether it should be a real all day school – and that at a reasonable distance to the place of residence. You deny this right to the Austrian parents, the students, and therefore this law is completely inadequate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second important point: 15 students Minimum to ensure that the communities receive additional money. Of course, each community can open a school, also offer afternoon care if it pays for it itself. If the community itself pays, you can also provide an afternoon care for two students. I would ask you to call us the number of those Austrian communities that say that we do not have 15, we have much less, there we do it anyway. It won't really exist. But who is at the disadvantage of this regulation? – The regions for which you seem to be always committed with great enthusiasm, namely the rural regions. In the cities, there will be a relatively small problem – you can choose the schools too – to find schools where there is afternoon care. If there are no 15 pupils registered in rural regions, but especially these municipalities have now received major financial problems, there will simply be no offer there. We do not need you from the ÖVP to get us to work for the rural regions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is simply the next step of disadvantage and thinning exactly this space, which is not understandable to us either. The safety: By the way, the Greens are working on models, according to which Karenz of Fathers should also be used much more strongly; that is hardly the case in Austria. We are, I think, at the moment 2 per cent Father's Care. We want there to be clear partnership models, but it is simple and simple at the moment that most of the childcare remains with women and must be guaranteed by women. If you say from the age of 15, I ask you how you want to ensure that from one year to the next the situation does not occur that an existing afternoon care is no longer there. They must imagine that parents decide in their professional environment: Okay, I'm gonna give my kid to this school, and my child's got an afternoon care there. – If in the following year there are no more 15 parents who register their children, then they can have a wrong, then there is no longer any legal claim and then there is no more afternoon care. I would like to wish you the pleasure of not knowing from year to year how you can plan your professional activity, and that you don't know from year to year whether there is a care place for your children. Then try to reconcile work and family. Good luck, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They always tell us how terrible Germany is – apparently a country that can only be discussed politically negatively. Germany has processed the results of the first PISA study. – By the way, I have now read the following in Germany. It's true: The bad results of the PISA study: In Austria one has seen: “World class!” before there have been worse results than in Germany. – Germany has said: What do we have to do? – A focus of the German Federal Government was the expansion of all day schools. For the years 2003 to 2007, the German Federal Government has tied up a €4 billion package for the expansion of school forms all day long. Now one can say that Germany is about ten times the size of Austria, so we reduce it by the factor 10. Then we will get €400 million for Austria within five years, if you take the German standard. Do you know what you budgeted? – 8 million € per year! This is a tenth of what Germany has financed and will finance in the years 2003 to 2007. I'll tell you something. In Germany this has been made available exclusively for the adaptation of schools. For this there is no money in the Federal budget, because you say: First of all, Austrian schools are so equipped that you can give children good conscience there all day! – schools built for afternoon care, where there is neither a kitchen nor a food option?- Oh, my God! The children can then probably introduce the lunch of McDonald’s in their benches and dine there. – This is not the form of afternoon care and all day schools, as we imagine them!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2973	Ladies and gentlemen, do you not want to make two amendments?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e2989	We'll bring them in afterwards. The last point that is very important to me in this context is social justice in the afternoon care. Social graduation, you say, there are in Austria, in the federal schools. - Yeah, she's here. And for those who believe now, so those who make really little money have a claim that they also receive free afternoon care: Family income per year is €10 200; there is nothing to pay for. If a family earns more than €10,200 a year – family income, two earners – is paid. And do you know where the social border ends? – At 17 000 € family income per year – with children! [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's incredible!]] As of this amount, there is no longer any euro for social staggering in childcare. Do you know what 17 000 € are for families with one child or two children? – I can tell you: At risk of poverty. Simple and simple risk of poverty. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is not a threat to poverty, that is complete poverty!]] People who do not have more than € 17 000 per year to two plus at least one child are at the border of poverty. But they say: We have a fair system. Anyone who has no money will be promoted with us. – This is simply the case in Austria and simply not the case! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Minister has 17 000 a month!]] A final remark on integration. We now have too few places in the afternoon care. This leads to those parents who have the opportunity to care for their children at home who are the first to not get afternoon care places. We know that the work of migrant women is lower than that of Austrian women. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell marks.]] This leads to the children of migrants being the first to get no afternoon care places – despite the necessary linguistic support! Mrs Bundesminister, this afternoon care package does not deserve our approval!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e3070	The next speaker is Mr Amon. His speaking time is also 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e3091	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a beautiful “Good morning! ” I particularly welcome those colleagues on the side of social democracy who were sick yesterday. I'm glad you're healthy again today. That speaks for the Austrian health system, I would say. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] But we are talking about the education system, which is not, as my colleague Brosz says, in a bad condition, but quite the contrary: The Austrian education system is in a condition that makes adaptations necessary there and there, but in general in a very good condition. I find it a bit unfortunate, Mr Brosz, that you are, in fact, only the negative pages that you are referring to a study, namely the PISA study. You have to say what exactly this PISA study is: The PISA study is a one-day punctual review in the three fields of reading, mathematics and natural sciences, a review which, however, does not allow the conclusion that the entire Austrian education system is questionable. They are the ones who are always opposed to any form of punctual review. And basically, the PISA study is a punctual review of 15-year-olds on a day that does not, of course, reveal the whole system. You should take note of this, Mr Brosz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I don't know!]] They never go into, for example, the study of the World Health Organization, in which we cut off outstandingly on questions of school satisfaction. They do not refer to the OECD Country Report, which praises the differentiated education system in Austria. You are not going to the World Competitiveness Report of the World Economic Forum. All this just leave you to the side, wipe away and whim the Austrian education system sick. On the other hand, the Austrian education system is a very, very good educational system. You should look at unemployment data, including youth unemployment data, in the Federal Republic of Germany and also in Finland, which have always been at least twice as high in the last ten years, sometimes four times as high as those in Austria. [[Abg. Sburny: You will have caught her soon! You will catch them up very quickly if you continue like this!]] This too is an indication of the functioning of an education system. We are glad that we always have one of the lowest youth unemployment rates in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we decide today on a comprehensive school package, this is the continuation of a strategy chosen by Elisabeth Gehrer, which reflects a constant improvement in the quality of the Austrian education system. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes, yes!]] It is about improving the comparability of the accounts, the validity of the accounts. But it is also about permanently adapting school to the new world of life and work. And so it is true that even those schools that do not have a five-day week today will have a five-day week in the future, because it is not clear that the parents have a five-day week, but the children do not. That is a good measure, Mrs Federal Minister, and we are grateful for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And we define a comprehensive package for day care. I believe that this is a very important measure, especially since it is a matter of adapting to the world of work in the field of education. In this context, of course, we also need to see that the school and thus the teachers have to carry out more and more educational tasks. I am not saying this as a criticism, but it is easy to see. And that's why the old ideological match, as it were, is not enough, in which one has discussed: Is it not more useful for the parents who take on this educational task, or should the state with the school, with the teachers, take on this educational task? I think this debate belongs to the past, because today the question is often: Is there anyone who accepts the children who raise the children? And that is why it is necessary to offer them wherever there is a demand for afternoon care on a voluntary basis. With this paper, we come a great step closer to this requirement. In addition, 10 000 care places will be offered in the next school year. For this, the Federal Minister of the Budget has provided additional € 8 million. [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] And it is not true, Mr Brosz, that there must be at least 15 children, because otherwise there will not be this afternoon care offer. [[Abg. Brosz: Claim!]] It is true that if there are 15 children at a school at one location for afternoon care, from which there is actually almost what They request that a claim be derived from the following: There, such an afternoon care has to be taken place. And that's good, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, because we are very intensive in maintaining small and micro-schools, we have said that in communities where there are not 15 children in a school location who register for afternoon care, it is also possible to provide school-wide afternoon care in the future, that it is of course possible to lower the target of 15 and that those school locations or communities which make such a school afternoon care offer also have access to the resources provided, i.e. an aliquota share of what is the target number 15. And this is a good, flexible measure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And if we offer 10,000 additional care places in the next school year, we will have a stand of over 60,000 afternoon care places at the end of the next school year. The SPÖ always requires 100 000. – You are talking about 100,000, we have already realized 60 000, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this context, I would also like to thank the President of the Municipal Government, Mr Mödlhammer, for his very intensive cooperation with the Municipal Government in order to develop a truly flexible and good model for afternoon care. I am sure that the city government will ultimately agree to this model, because it is a good model, because it is a model that brings high flexibility and ultimately comes very well with single parents, but also families where both parents are employed. I think that this is really excellent progress! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, with the school package to be decided today, there will also be an improvement in the field of validity and comparability. For example, in the future, children who come from primary school and have the AHS maturity will automatically be able to go to the first performance group of the primary school. Of course, this also requires that there is a first performance group in these schools. And above all, Vienna's education policy is called on to try to ensure that we also offer all the services in the main schools in Vienna. [[Beilfalls with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Federal Minister and Mr State Secretary! With this school package we will achieve an improvement in the field of VET, because it is also about the permeability in the education system, the “Career with Teaching” actually also being lived. It will be so in the future – and this is also provided for in a regulation – that people who, for example, make a master's exam or a comprehensive qualification test will, of course, be taken into account for the professional part of this training. It is a question of gradually improving the quality of schools, and that is why the question of reducing the maximum level of class students towards 25 will also be a serious issue of discussion, which we also express with a resolution. But there are still a few things accompanying this school package, because not all we decide today is, so to speak, the whole of the school package. Mr Brosz, if you make fun of the fact that the subject of physical exercises is renamed “moving and sport”: Of course, it would be a bit strange if we were to do just that. This is the only thing to change in the law: the change of name. Of course, there is a new curriculum that will go into review and put this subject on completely new, modern legs. You should also say that in the interests of honesty, Mr Brosz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Are there enough hours for that?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: And what about the hourly cuts in movement and sport?]] One important issue accompanying this school package is, for example, the issue of early language education. The Minister of Education has already agreed with the national school council presidents that the school registration will be preferred in the coming school year, so that children will be enrolled in school at the age of five and a language screening will take place in this school registration, where there will be some language shortages. It is true that a result of the PISA study is – and this is very clear – that we have about 14 percent children in Austria who have a migration background. We are also very different from Finland, where only 1.3 percent of the children have a migration background. You also need to take this into account, of course, if you say that 20 percent of children aged 15 years cannot read meaningfully after the PISA study. And that is why it is very early to start with the corresponding linguistic support, and the corresponding resources will also be made available. There will be an early promotion in kindergarten, legislative measures after the next school year will be tried and next year we will also ensure appropriate legislative measures. It also provides for special support in the field of reading. You know that the educational institutes already need to focus on teacher education, and with the continuation of the Leadership Academy, there is also the prerequisite for a corresponding positive development. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, as chairman of the Committee on Education, I would like to thank all the groups for their constructive cooperation in the first half of the year. However, I would like, above all, to thank all teachers for the good work they do in the Austrian educational landscape, a task which is often unthankful, a task that goes far beyond what is, so to speak, a task which, in my opinion, they fulfil to a large extent in an excellent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e3297	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. His speaking time is also 12 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e3319	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The 2005 school law package is on the agenda today. This sounds like a big project, and students, teachers and parents will ask themselves: What's in this school package for us now? Students, teachers and parents are now in the well-deserved vacations and perhaps watch us because you can't go to the swimming pool in this weather anyway. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank the teachers, the students, the parents, all those involved in school life, for their work in the last school year. It was a great, very good work, and I think they also deserved this thanks – even the students who in many cases have a 40-hour week or even more. [[General condolences.]] What does this school package bring? – First of all, we have to say that it is school package 2005, but almost everything will only enter into force in autumn 2006. All day care, which we are talking about here, will not come into force this autumn, but only next year in autumn. Whoever has expected that, after the final report of the Future Commission or after the not very flattering PISA report for us, it will now immediately be implemented that a back is going through education policy, will certainly be disappointed in this school package. What does this package contain? – The adaptation to the working world through the introduction of the five-day week, which already exists in many, many cases, and a broadening of the afternoon care. On the proposal of our colleague Beate Schasching, the education of the body is renamed “Moving and Sport”. Schools can choose an additional name if they have a priority, such as language primary or primary school; this would be something else. Mr Amon has already mentioned the suitability for the AHS. Then it is now in the School Education Act that it is one of the tasks of teachers that they also continue and continue their education to the necessary extent; this may be surprising because it sounds as if there had been no such thing at all. The Academy of Social Work will be abolished, and that is already a remarkable thing. For the first time, a school form is deleted in school organisation law, by a simple majority, because the two-thirds majority for this area has been abolished. And that's where I remember: If it were according to your original proposal, after this almost interim proposal, where the list of schools would still have been necessary with two-thirds majority, we would only need a two-thirds majority for this provision in the social academies today. There is also a better international recognition of professional maturity. This too is a really important issue. These are all points in which we do not say no to social democrats against the difference from the Greens. It is difficult to reject what is inside it because of improvements, and we will therefore agree to this school package. [[We welcome the SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] It is not the backbone in education policy, but it is this crucial step forward. This package is more of a “Jausensackerl” than a package with a substantially important content. The most important thing is certainly the expansion of afternoon care by 10,000 to 12,000 places. We currently have very few real all day schools. We have around 60 000 offers, and Mr Amon has meant that you have created these 60 000 offers all day long. This is, of course, not at all true, because it has been largely the communities that have been the cities that have created such offers throughout the whole day for many years. But in Austria we have about 650 000 to 700 000 children in compulsory schooling in the lower classes of the AHS and will now have about 70 000 places to do so, so for one tenth of all children we have in these schools. We think that 10,000 places are a progress, but they are not enough. Two years ago, therefore, we presented a concept to create 100,000 new all-day places in the Austrian schools, because a study by the Chamber of Labour showed that three out of ten parents wanted this and that would urgently need to be such a full-day school, where they knew the children well up in the afternoon and well cared for. However, because it is only 10 000 places, this regulation, which is being decided today, also has some restrictions in it so that it cannot be exploited. And these are the limits that we would have liked to eliminate. We have also tabled an appropriate proposal in the Committee to eliminate this, but unfortunately you have not gone along. We also want all day schools to conform to the spatial conditions that one not only stays in the classes, but also the buildings are rebuilt. Mr Brosz has already mentioned how such a programme looks for all day schools in which you can really feel comfortable. This year, too, we presented a concept here in January, whereby the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities should make joint efforts to set up an impulse programme, something which would be of great importance, not only in terms of education but also in terms of economic policy. Another point is the cost-effective contributions for parents or the question of whether you can afford all day care or the afternoon school. The proposal to introduce this social levelling for all schools in negotiations with the other local authorities would ensure that there are equal and fair opportunities for parents in all communities where there are all-day offers. This too is a wish that we will surely fulfill if we have the opportunity to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And one last point is the quality of this offer. The parents expect school afternoon care not only to be provided, but also to receive targeted support for learning weaknesses, to do the tasks and exercises in school in the afternoon, and above all to put an end to the insanity of reparation, because this is done in the school. For us, the school is not only a place of storage, but a living place where the quality of our schools is actually raised, so that we are better in future PISA studies than today. Whoever wants to read in detail all this information, the proposals we have on this subject as social democrats – I don't have the time to explain it in detail – I can refer to our own homepage, which we have set up: www.ganztagsschule.at; there is everything you need to know about it. I have already mentioned the commitment to further training. This is an important point, with the obligation to focus on continuing training and on itself in the field of service law. There are also a number of things inside, but, Mrs. Federal Minister, we are experiencing a certain contradiction here: on the one hand, the obligation to continue training, and on the other hand, we hear from almost all educational institutes, from many teachers that they want to continue their education, but that they should not be free, nor that the offers to the pedagogical institutes take place, because cuts have also been made at the pedagogical institutes and the offer is reduced. So if you want training, it is not enough to write it into the law, but then you must also give teachers the opportunity to actually continue training, and then you must not reject such applications! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I also mention the professional maturity examination here, even if it does not fit directly with the school package, but because it has made a very decisive improvement in 1997 in that people with a professional degree examination who have completed an apprenticeship have also been given the opportunity to make a matura through this professional maturity examination, to get a degree entrance. Today, this is extended to the master's exam and to the qualification exam, and we are thus making it clear that this practical training also has its value and is also intended to enable it to accept educational opportunities in the secondary institutions, technical colleges and so on. But if we are talking about the expansion of educational opportunities by the professional ageing test, we must also say that today is likely to decide a provision that takes away such opportunities for education. The ruling of the ECJ, which said that Austria must treat all of them equally here, either for all EU citizens access restrictions or for all access restrictions, is forcing them to respond to them at least in a reasonable time. Mr Broukal, our science spokesman, will deal with this subject in detail. I'm just saying: It would be wrong to seek the enemies of free access to higher education only at the European Court of Justice, because you as government parties have initially starved our universities for five years, so that ten students have to run around a laboratory square and 100 for a place in a hearing room for 50 people. [[Call the ÖVP: Please don't!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Not only, but also!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go, please!]] They have thrown out around 30 million to make the medical faculties their own universities – a pure prestige project! –, money that we would have liked to use for teaching. And the Federal Chancellor has failed to provide a political solution here in good time, that is to say years before. I'm just saying one thing: I have the suspicion that you are not quite inconvenient that free access to higher education must be restricted here. We will not accept any solution that seriously threatens this free access to higher education!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e3417	Mr Niederwieser, we are going to discuss this question, which you have finally addressed, in a separate item on the agenda, which will then be discussed subsequently. [[Abg. Gaal: He can say what he wills!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Next word: Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. 12 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e3454	Mr President. Minister! High house! I thank all those who have enabled us to sit here today and discuss and vote democratically on our education system. I also thank those who have made it possible for us to have an education system where we can train our children free of charge. I think this is a very good thing that we have here in Austria and for which we can all be very grateful. And I hope, unlike Mr Niederwieser, that the students will not sit in front of the TV today and now, even if this debate might be interesting for them. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Lentic: Yes!]] I hope the students have fun somewhere, either at school or in leisure time or even somewhere where they really have fun. I also hope that teachers will be in the process of post-preparing or preparing for the school – and not that they will sit in front of the TV. [[Abg. Mandak: They have completed school!]] [[Abg. Oils: Testimonies!]] –Yes, they are just in school, where they should be here on other days, where we discuss here, outside the holiday season. . I'm just saying this because Mr Niederwieser said he was happy and hoping that everyone would sit in front of the TV and listen to us. I hope they do their work. I think the parents he thought might be sitting and listening to us are where they are always during the day, at the workplace, either at home or at the job where they have to go. There are parents – or perhaps already on a well-deserved holiday! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals and Deputies of the ÖVP.]] But I welcome all the other valuable television viewers who have the time to listen to our debate. The term ‘School Package 1’ already states that there will be several packages that will follow, because after decades of blockade policy and decades of stagnation in education policy due to the need for the two-thirds majority in the field of school laws, which has now fallen, it is now finally possible to adapt the school, the education system to modern requirements, it is possible to go one step after another, to make school more parental and child-friendly and to improve it for the future and to lead to a good future. If it is said by the Greens that what is done is not enough, then I can only say to you: Wait! There will be one package after another, and it will always be better compared to what has been so far. [[Abg. Oillinger: But you don't have much time!]] You just have to wait a little! We cannot improve from today to tomorrow everything that has been abandoned in decades of blockade policy. Wait! Several good packages will follow. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But you don't have much time!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: At least five years!]] With the case of the two-thirds majority, it is now finally possible and the way is free to bring about changes: in the direction of a necessary day care offer, that the general introduction of the five-day week can be achieved for all 6- to 14-year-olds. The school is thus adapted to the modern working world and to the needs of the parents. The children should not spend more days in school than their parents at work. And one more important point – including from our point of view: There is language early promotion – not in the legal field, but this is a focus that is placed on the part of the government with the aim of ensuring that all children in the first folk school class are sufficiently mastering German as a language of teaching. And that's why, I think, this is a really good package! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As it is always said by the opposition side that this is a good step, but far too little, I can only say: Let us wait for the results and then take further steps! It is a good first step that is now being taken with regard to day care, because in the future in Austria there will be adequate day care for all 6- to 14-year-olds, while safeguarding the freedom of choice for parents. And from a group size of 15 students, there must be this offer of afternoon care also mandatory. That's almost a legal claim. I think that this is a good step to make 60 000 care places available in total. This is also to be honoured, and it is to be said that there is a lot of good being done here. And: Let's wait for the results to see: Is this offer really accepted by the parents? so that not what happened in the Styria with the summer kindergartens, where there has been a large offer from the country and the community, has given many registrations – and now that the summer is there and the places are available, far too few children are really there and are registered to use the kindergartens as well. A lot of money has been made available here, but it has not been used. That's why I'm saying: Let's see how this offer affects! If it is really used at 100 percent, then further measures need to be taken immediately. But we're really working on demand and we're looking at: Where is the demand really?, and on that basis we widen the supply. Second point: Vocational training. She has also written a story of success. The creation of the opportunity to re-establish Matura on the second course of education in the form of this professional maturity examination has been a good decision. At present, 8 000 people are in preparation for this professional maturity test. 1 247, who have completed this mature exam, are already studying at technical universities, 6 384 at universities – that is 3.3 percent of students – 46 already have a degree. This shows that it is important to achieve the permeability of the education system. Financial resources have also been put in hand here. The support has been granted. Access is now to be extended and opened to graduates of master and qualification exams. In addition – and this is what we still hope and wish to do in a resolution – there should be equal rights here, because the AHS students will receive their training, as it were, free of charge, but they will have to be paid for the professional maturity test and money will have to be taken into their own hands. This is where we have drawn up a motion for a resolution to which everyone will agree, on the issue of equal treatment and equality, that models should be drawn up in order to avoid the need for professional maturity examinations themselves in the future. This will remove financial barriers, and it will be possible to use even more of this offer, this possibility of the second course of education. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Another focus is language early promotion with the aim – which is a focus outside the law – that all children are sufficiently dominated by German after the first class of folk school. I think this is a very important point, because in folk school it has led to many problems that children who have not sufficiently dominated the Austrian language have already been accommodated in the first class. This has led to many problems within the school, including for teachers. This has been a major challenge for them, and it is therefore important that early promotion is used here. Experts say that there is already a need for funding in kindergartens for at least 8,000 children. That is to say, there will be an early registration with a so-called "language" state. There will be an early diagnosis by the headmasters, and there will be early funding in the kindergarten area, where an average of four hours a week will be paid. The Federal Government is paying for this, and the countries are to implement it with the communities, and the continuing and continuing education for kindergarten teachers is being strengthened and promoted in this area. After a one-year probation period, there should be an evaluation, and that – I am sure – will result in a discharge of teachers and a better acceptance of the school, especially the folk school, by parents and children. I think that this will also be reflected in the law and that this is a good development that we are going outside of the law to carry out the linguistic early promotion. Other priorities are to promote reading or also promote strength, but also weak. This is an area of great importance: that we address the different needs of students, that they are supported and promoted in their respective skills. When the students have finished their schooling, the way to Matura is free for the university, and here I am also going to the current discussion when we talk about the universities. The reason why we need to talk about it today and here is that the EU has passed a judgment which says that the law, as it is at present, where other requirements apply to foreign students, especially German students, is repealed. [[Abg. Scheibner: Awesome!]] None of us wish you a Numerus clausus in Austria, none of us want access restrictions as in Germany! That is why it is up to us to adopt a law here that allows us to continue to maintain free access to higher education, which allows us to limit the storm of foreign students in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You won't do that!]] That's why it is: that we find a good solution in this field of tension. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Prince.]] To contribute to this, everyone is invited, and we believe that universities can and want to contribute to this in their autonomy. This law, which we will adopt here today, is a support of universities and, above all, meets the rector's wish that we act here quickly so that we can ensure a high quality university provision. We'll do this today! Grotesk is – and I would also like to say this here – that the SPÖ aligns its voting behaviour according to the voting behaviour of the Greens! It is quite inconceivable for me that a group cannot decide for itself: Am I agreeing or not?, but says: I only agree with the Greens! [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, what's going on? What are you afraid of?]] – You’re here in an opposition coalition and you don’t need unanimity here. The unanimity needed on the government bank in a coalition – but not in an opposition coalition in which you seem to be. Your negotiator, Mr Broukal, says that it will only be agreed if a joint decision is reached with the Greens, and that is in my view a discharge of your responsibility in this area. [[Abg. Scheibner: ( towards SPÖ) Are you not an independent party, or what?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Green Band!]] Good night, University!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e3683	Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely what has happened, which is not actually planned: We are not discussing the school package now, but we are discussing the next item on the agenda. [[Abg. Scheibner: But, Mr President, if one starts, the others can replicate!]] – I have approved it with the orderly Dutch – okay, so it is. [[Abg. Scheibner: Eben!]] [[Abg. Mr Jarolim: Mr President, but it was not very important!]] Mrs Gehrer is now speaking. Your speaking time is 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e3743	Mr President. High house! I am pleased that we can take another step in increasing school quality today – another step after many we have already taken! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Those who go through our school landscape with open eyes, see what has been done in recent years, what has been built in new schools. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, unfortunately!]] I would like to thank all the school-keepers, all the mayors and mayors, all of them in the state governments. Our school buildings can be seen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am also pleased that, in cooperation with the BIG and with other bodies, we can build the best buildings with the best quality that even win architectural prizes! This is a great performance for our architects, which is a great performance for our school landscape. Ladies and gentlemen! However, school quality depends to a particular extent on qualified teachers, and I emphasize it: We have 116 000 qualified teachers in Austria, whom I would like to thank very much for their achievements in the last school year! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today is also the last day of school in the Western Länder. 750,000 students take a well - deserved holiday. A total of 1.2 million students now have holidays. I wish them a good rest and I am glad that there are fewer recessors this year than last year. [[Abg. Scheibner: The teacher or the student?]] – I also wish the students a good rest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Whoever with the same open eyes with which he looks at the school buildings, also looks at the quality of our school life, sees what in recent years – in many cases in common, and that is good! – has been caused by changes. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You've seen that, unfortunately, God! Dramatically, you've seen that!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] We have expanded autonomy; the schools are more independent. We have created new curriculums, we have the project work that advanced modern forms of education. We have greatly increased foreign stays within the framework of the mobility programmes in Europe. We have equipped the schools with computers Austria is at the top of the computer equipment. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What school?]] We have introduced a new quality culture with feedback sheets and the QIS project. What makes me particularly happy: The trend towards higher education continues! We have 40 425 students more in secondary schools, and we will therefore also have more students at the universities. [[Abg. Brosz: But no more seats!]] That's a good educational success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We've put forward the early warning system together – and we've lowered the repetitious numbers: In the AHS they fell by 2 percent, in the vocational schools by 3.8%. I'm glad! It means less failure experiences for some students. We have focused on the students' reading ability: In May, reading screenings were carried out at 189,261 pupils. About 40 percent read very well, around 40 percent read well, and 15 percent will receive the promotion they need in order to improve their reading skills. But if you think that school quality can only be effected by legal changes, it is blind on one eye! [[Abg. Oils: Better on one eye blind than on two!]] You know that in many areas many projects, many measures are being carried out that are not legally anchored but incredibly important. For example, I mention the introduction of standards, standards that are already being tested; I mention the Leadership Academy, I mention that discussion that has created a strong movement within the framework of the Commission on the Future, which I set up in 2003, by the way. I mention the funding hours that are newly offered: 36 hours in each primary school class, 72 hours in each primary class, 72 hours per year at each secondary level of the gymnasium. Today we now decide on some important legal developments. It is a school package that brings important further developments for schools and students. My previous speakers have already mentioned the entire range of measures, so I would like to address some particularly important questions. It was widely discussed the so-called day care. – Ladies and gentlemen, I already understand that some of the Greens or the opposition do not like to hear that their mandatory daily school, the whole day school, is simply not wanted throughout the Austrians. We asked this very carefully: 77 percent of those surveyed are for voluntary daily care, which depends on the needs of working parents. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's the question, you know that!]] 62 percent are against a mandatory all-day school, with which we order all children to be in school from 8 a.m. in the morning until 5 p.m. [[Abg. Oillinger: Now you're back at your old programs!]] [[Call:This is the "compulsory day school"]] I'll tell you: Day care is very well accepted by those who need it! I ask those who are talking about it, we need new buildings, we need new buildings, we need new kitchens, we need open dining rooms, we need rural areas, it will not be possible in rural areas, on: [[Call the Greens:Yes, exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please, go to the rural area and look at that! [[Abg. Sburny: We live there! We live there!]] You're talking far away from every reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Sburny: I don't know where you live...!]] [[Abg. Brosz: The Minorite Square is not a rural area!]] You know, as a Federal Minister, I know not only my place of residence Bregenz, but I know many schools from within because I go there because I go to the federal states because I talk to the directors and because I talk to the parents! [[Intervocations with the Greens and the SPÖ]] I'll give you an example. [[Abg. Sburny: Yes!]] [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] I was in a small community in Carinthia 14 days ago, in Gmünd, which offers limited care. Do you know how they do it? – The children go to a nearby inn for lunch! This is what the parents want, and the students get a good food there at a very cheap price. The schoolkeeper and the school have agreed with this inn. – Of course, you want to have a huge kitchen that you build huge dining rooms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I really ask you to let a little mind on all these questions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Don't tell me they don't! Very good speech!]] [[Abg. Sburny: Are you setting up a guest house at every school now?]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I also know exactly how it is handled in small communities if only one or two children need care. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Our important speech!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Is this now in-house care?]] The community strives, looks for a mother-in-law, and sees that the children are cared for in a family. What do you actually have against rational, reasonable solutions that are taken by those responsible on the ground? [[Abg. Sburny: Because they don't work! You don't work!]] I thank everyone who does this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that, as mentioned above, we are not spending €8 million a year. We will spend €62 million – €52 million, if we have 65 000 care places, in support of the communities in the care of children, in the promotion of children – and not for superfluous constructions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] [[Abg. Mandak: Well, 10 million more or less!]] [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Good school consists of the daily effort to get even better. It is not enough to turn on a wheel, it is not enough to implement a lever, we have to make a lot of progress! We have made many progress, and we are now taking a big step forward in today's school package. I thank those who agree. We will continue to develop our schools in a positive way in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4129	Mrs Mandak has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4180	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Love of politics interested young people! Mrs Gehrer! It is interesting that you say in the debt debate as the first sentence that our school buildings could be seen, and that you are delighted with the architectural prices that Austria's schools have received. . We are also pleased about this, but I believe that you have a little misinterpreted the term ‘education landscape’. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you are talking about education, you mean not the houses in which education takes place, but the way in which education takes place. I would also like to make it clear: They said “with the Greens and in the Opposition. ” – Ms Minister, the Greens are the opposition in Austria. [[Call the ÖVP:And there they stay too!]] I'd like to ask you to keep this apart. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: There they belong too!]] [[Abg. Schleibermair: “Badhin” is a good word!]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have referred to the new funding hours in your remarks – you keep mentioning this and are really very proud of it – and you are more supportive of how strongly you support students than before. You always call the totals. We have once done the work and calculated it, only so that everyone can really understand it: We are talking about the fact that there are now 17 minutes more available per student. You might say, Great! So, my God, with 17 minutes a week, you can do a lot of things when you count it together. – But it's not about 17 minutes a week, it's 17 minutes per school year! It is only clear what relations we are talking about here when the Minister is proud of her additional funding hours. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: Don't need all the funding hours!]] – It does not take all the funding hours, but 17 minutes a year, Minister, that is already a bit very rough! [[Abg. Oils: ridiculous!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So I wouldn’t always put that in the scales if you argue with “improved conditions”. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do we think? – We believe that children must have the opportunity to learn from each other, whether they are flash-gneaders or those who learn a little slower, those who do not have enough time or those who do a little less, children with a German mother tongue or with a non-German mother tongue, children with disabilities and children without disabilities – they should all have the opportunity to learn with each other. We want the children to be picked up where they are: with their personality, with their development status. We want teachers to have appropriate framework conditions so that they can address the children – that's what many want, but it's not possible for many to do, because there are just too many children in the class. We also wish that “the school” offers the children equal opportunities: that it does not matter in which country the child goes to which school, whether the parents themselves have a high level of education or not – or whether they have a good income or not. You can do things better and better! In my opinion, the last sentence in your speech today was very remarkable: You said you were trying to make it better, and you should never stop. - I'm glad! I have heard that very, very rarely so far. Nor do I have the impression that this is the key to your education policy. During his entire speaking time, Mr Amon pointed out where Austria is again very great in the statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not move on. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Because you always do bad!]] If it's your claim to let everything be that way, then, please, free the government bank! Let's go! We know what we want to do better in the education system! – It is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Amon, is everything best for us if every fourth and every fourth 16-year-old cannot read meaningfully? – In other words, the young people can read the text, but they no longer know what they have read. [[Abg. Amon: Senseful!]] Is it all right for children with non-German mother tongues to have much worse school outcomes than those with German mother tongues? – Take a look at how high the share of migrant children in the previous special schools, now special educational funding centres, is! But they have actually lost nothing there, they belong to schools, are being postponed from there because you are helpless with your education policy! Another big question is: Which school does the child go to? And what influence does this have on the way to life? Is it all right for you that 40,000 pupils in Austria will not reach the school goal this year? 40,000 students either have a follow-up or even fall through! [[Abg. Murauer: Can't the children be guilty?]] In your opinion, is it okay for the parents in Austria to pay €100 million each year for assistance? – So much on the issue of equal opportunities for education: We do not have the same educational opportunities in Austria as long as we have such conditions! Please take note! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would mainly like to address your requests concerning afternoon service to schools and the five-day week. – It is quite clear in the materials for the draft law – I quote the first sentence –: “The school offer in the field of primary and secondary education” – that is, the lower and the primary school – “is not adapted to the temporal conditions of the working world.” It also says: "The mandatory offer of day care at all schools up to and including the 8. School level... will have a positive impact on the employment situation of persons with compulsory education and thus on the economic location of Austria as a whole.” That means: They have looked at the present draft on its impact on Austria's employment and economic location. Clearly, it is a law aimed at enabling both parents to work. – We are pleased, we always demand that. Now I would like to see if you can do so and if this law is worth agreeing: I say to you, however, that you have forgotten very, very essential things in this law, not just a little bit, but a lot. I am surprised, honestly, that under asylum law and civil service law the SPÖ also agrees to this law – whatever the signal effect behind it. [[Abg. May. Controller: Because they are good laws!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: You are always for being against it!]] Parents need reliability. – As a mother, I need to know: My child must have a shelter! However, you do not agree with this law, you do not have that either! This security is important because I have to vote for it at work! My employer or my employer very well demands that I be a reliable employee, but I have no assurance that my child will be well cared for. That is, everything that goes wrong goes wrong at the expense of the parents. They have to do this, they have to look at how they come to solutions. Of course, this happens on the parents' backs in this case! – No, it is not clear that parents must always be! Absolutely not! [[Abg. Sheermair: Parents are always responsible!]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Give parents a right to day care! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Is the state responsible for everything?]] Give parents a right to child care! It's possible! Sweden has that! You'll see what effects this has! [[Abg. Murauer: Then go to Sweden!]] Second point: If you live in the country, maybe you're wrong. If it is not possible to get 15 children together – bad luck! [[Abg. Lentsch: Then there are mother-in-laws in the country!]] - There's moms! If there is no mother-in-law, why don't you allow other forms of day care? Why don't you also offer the opportunity to make cross-age offers with day children's homes? On Saturday you'll lock up at all – there's finished! – because you now decide not only this care law, but also the five-day week at the schools. Do you know what the 350 000 employees are supposed to do on their own – two thirds of them are women?- Oh, my God! While 15 years ago there was an end of 12 o'clock, today the opening hours go on Saturday until 16, 17 o'clock! Where's the babysitting? It's not given, you don't care! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: Should we offer it 24 hours a day?]] [[Abg. Murauer: Mrs. Colleague, what are we doing on Sunday? There are also those who have to work on Sunday!]] Fees: Mr Brosz has already mentioned that the vulnerable families are meeting. – That's the only point, Dieter, where I have to contradict you: They're poor families! We are talking here about the fact that already those families who have a net living have to pay full for childcare! I think you no longer know what it means when a family of 1 000 € has to live! The Minister often does not even know whether 10 million on or off. It doesn't surprise me, I have to tell you quite honestly! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When I criticized this, Klubobmann called Molterer: They're taking care of little things! - So these aren't small things for me. And for me, it is still no small thing whether this money is available or not. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I told you something else, Mrs Colleague! If you want to know!]] You would have the opportunity to put good day care on your feet. Don't say you don't have the money for it! You have the money for – I don't want to quote you again, but – these really useless interceptors! [[Abg. Scheibner: Please, don't start with that again!]] They have had the money for a tax reform that has greatly benefited the large companies. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Give the money to the parents, give the money to the children, to day care and to the education of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4535	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4571	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! A few corrections to my predecessor: The educational landscape means that both the Minister and my group have a little more than just the school buildings – I do not have to do this here. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You're great!]] I advise colleague Mandak to reflect on the summer, how many minutes, promotion minutes, will come out if you assume that not every student needs funding lessons – then it is more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also advise her to make an international comparison, for example with the PISA winner Finland, who spends less on education and more on interception hunters. – So: The international comparison also makes us sure, as well as the comparison with the tax reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The educational, school package responds to social changes. We could say that school stays in motion and that's how it goes in the right direction. The abolition of the two-thirds majority for the majority of the school laws was a right and important decision, so that today, as we see, with great approval, not required by the constitutional majority, we can decide on important changes and thus respond to international changes. The international changes will be to make even more comparisons: OECD, PISA, TIMS and so on. In the future, the school will also need to increase the employment of fathers and mothers. We see this as positive, we consider it positive and not, so to speak, just as a necessary consequence of this decision. For a long time, social democracy has experienced work as a suffering and as a servitude and therefore said that it is not good for women to work. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Now one comes to see women also in work unfolding, autonomy, self-gathering, self-definition. This should also be possible in connection with family, father, mother, child. In the future, it will also be a matter of looking more closely at the early promotion facilities such as the kindergarten. ==References== Originally built as a welfare facility in the 20th century, it has now certainly become an educational institution. And if we are in the agglomeration room and look at the children with migration background, we can only ask for the support of the demand of the ÖVP Vienna, namely to make the last kindergarten year before the school free, especially in the agglomeration room, to give the children with language-developed levels, with low German skills the opportunity to learn the teaching language in the kindergarten association here, and not to let it fail possibly at the kindergarten fee, the kindergarten contributions. So absolute support for this measure, which is modern and future-oriented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we still need is fortification of education research. Here too, the school package is taking another important step. We still know too little about certain phenomena in school and teaching, and we need to pool these findings and prepare them more for political decision-making. What is sure to be added is the expansion of the range of work and tasks of the school itself. What pedagogical afternoon care is not what used to be welfare state storage, but is high-quality leisure education, is high-quality pedagogical education aid and does not have to be class in the classical picture – see all day school! Even in a educationally high-quality afternoon care variant, children come to their account. This is not only confirmed by the surveys when the parents themselves are asked, but also by science and research. Finally, it is about increasing the quality of teaching and less about changing the teaching organisation. Here too, we are sure in our judgment, because this says both the experience in the international field and science and research. The OECD recently pointed out that a single school model is not the right answer in multicultural, plural, and especially urban societies. We are also in Austria with our differentiated model in this respect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where, on the basis of the school package, we have to start particularly in Vienna, and the issues of education promotion and language promotion are essentially problems of the urban spaces: The German language does not dominate 40 percent of the early school students in Vienna. And if you ask the primary school teachers, they say that to a far too high degree, the primary students feel that the school is a “heat house” and not a learning facility, not an educational institution. Then we must not be surprised when in Vienna the worst PISA results become obvious, what the school achievements, what the reading achievements are doing. So I wonder what Vienna is doing with the special resources that are given beyond the financial compensation of Vienna: 2 million €, a not so small sum. In this These resources could be used in this area. I wonder why Vienna has not already evaluated what the integration measures have done, what the previous language support measures have done. In all points, the opposition is required to evaluate and log every small step – but here there is apparently a blindness on the left eye. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a worrying development. - And if we're already with Vienna: The disproportionate highest number of repetients is available in Vienna, at all levels! I can't say that the children – under quotation marks – are “dark”, the teachers are more unable or anything else! Where is it here in the Vienna schools in the Argen? [[Call the SPÖ.]] You get the same money as everyone else plus a special gift, and yet there is this unsatisfying result. Perhaps the Vienna School Authority should also consider this. By the way: Afternoon care. The Federation is also a pioneer in this field in Vienna: Afternoon care is available in 59 schools of 87, including the 15 private who offer all afternoon care, while in the compulsory schools it is only a third that offers afternoon care, and of which only one third of the full day school form, because there the parents also want the restricted form with instruction and leisure in the afternoon. That means, obviously Vienna is different here too: On the one hand, more is required by the federal government than by itself, and on the other hand, a lot remains to be done in the performance and in the levels. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to ask ourselves how we will put up with the international comparisons that I have already mentioned. If we want to better cut back on PISA and TIMS in the future, then we also need to focus our curriculum and our teaching work more on these requirements so that we are not measured on something that we have not practiced and worked. On the other hand – this is an invitation for the next school package and for the next school discussion here – we should already ask ourselves whether the European idea of education with PISA is being fully questioned whether our pioneering in Europe is also covered from gymnasium to apprenticeship training with what are international standards. I invite you all to think whether our understanding of education, when you start with Humboldt and end up with modern Pragmatists and Pragmatists, is what will be raised with international standards, or whether we should not go into the development of parameters here intensively. This is a task that could also be addressed internationally. Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been referred to yesterday's ECJ judgment. It says that maturants from all over Europe must be treated equally. The European school system with its diverse expression also of the BHS school system cannot withstand a maturanot comparison. We must therefore also consider how we can make our maturants fit for competition throughout Europe. We want mobility, we want our maturants to prove at European universities that they can apply and successfully register. So there is also a question of how to deal with standards, how to deal with common comparable degrees. For educational research, it is about developing fair access procedures, both at universities and at colleges and other secondary schools. I would like to remind you from this point of view that 24 out of 25 European countries have had access restrictions, university access regulations, and we have lived in a wonderful niche for a while, for more than ten years, and have been able to make our special arrangement. Today, we will find a regulation that allows open university access, will increase opportunities for maturants in the future, and at the same time help regulate impermeable inflows from other countries that might be in front of the university gates. Ladies and gentlemen, one last sentence on the conclusion of the educational chapter: We live in Europe and we see our continent and the Europe project as a peace project. We have not yet arrived at 100 percent of the solution. But in view of yesterday's terror in London, it is already obvious that we need to think more about education so that our level of conflict is not the cannons, not the grenades, but the argument, the dialogue, then we are European and educationally good on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4668	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4689	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Gertrude Brinek, I hope I just misunderstand this: But we don't want to practice PISA, do we? We don't want to go past PISA, but we want our young people to have a general education that makes it possible for them to answer just as well as any PISA question and to cut it off better at the next PISA test than it is currently. Also the reference to the classical educational ideas of Humboldt is very beautiful. I would only ask once to talk to business personnel directors about what is needed in classical educational ideas in a modern industrial company, in a modern service company. Certainly also some, but it will never be a substitute for a proper education in more modern subjects than philosophy, as Humboldt meant. We just need young people who put their wife and husband in mathematics. We need young people who can speak foreign languages – something that still runs according to the motto in Austria: The first living foreign language at the school is German and not a foreign language! We need a lot more knowledge. What we can also need is that our young people get a little more character formation and philosophical education. However, I would like to say: At vocational schools, for example, we and probably also the Greens have been fighting for many years, even in coalition times with you, that there is more there than the vocational training, the purely specific training. It was a huge cramp to get from you something like just a first living foreign language. It was a huge cramp to get from you something like a little more German lessons. So don't talk to a split tongue! Education, heart education, classical education is nothing that AHS-Zöglingen should be reserved. We also need to do this at vocational schools! Many would be happy, the professional students themselves, their parents and also many teachers who complain today that this is not the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Federal Minister loves to appeal to the house mind. I like to follow her, which is often a good means – for example, if Mrs. Federal Minister says that 62 percent of the parents are against a mandatory form of the whole day school. I mean a form of all-day school, in which it is necessary to be present from morning until 3.30 p.m. – no longer the core time – in order to be able to follow the entire class. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: There is no teaching all the time!]] – The Minister of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has just said that I would believe that all day long there is lessons from... – Yes, well, then I correct myself: to follow the entire school program, which, unlike the half-day school you love, provides generous breaks, humanistic education, leisure objects in which, for example, theater is operated or an additional foreign language is taught – so all that the colleague Brinek has just given us such a heart. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: You said: follow the entire class!]] It's a whole day school. I'm correcting myself: She does not offer eight hours of lessons a day, but many enjoyable things in between that parents and students love. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But let's keep in mind that 62 percent of parents are supposed to be against it. I say ‘adequately’ because this changes from investigation to investigation, which is one of the questions that matters very much about how to ask. You can get the most different answers here, depending on how you ask. But let's assume that these 62 percent would be correct. That would mean, in return, that 38 percent of parents are not in this view, so they can also imagine giving their children to a school that starts at 8 a.m. and ends at 3.30 p.m. – a full day school. Now it comes: As Minister, you could say: I love and value both – and you know a lot of full-time schools because you attend schools and see how there is the consent of the parents, how the teachers work in these schools – I don't want to decide, the parents should decide which school they want to give their children! - But you don't do that! [[Abg. Amon: That's not true!]] You prefer the model of afternoon care only on the morning, in the afternoon meal, supervision, learning, practice. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] That's what you can do, because you say: If 15 parents want to do that, it must be done! But why don't you say: If 15 parents want their children to have a full day school at their disposal, then this is also to be set up!? - You don't say that! You say there must first be two thirds of parents and two thirds of teachers from all over the school so that parents can report and say in one class: We'd love that! And then, just so that there is in one class, two thirds of the parents want it again, and all teachers in the school must agree. This is because one comes with the perfect argument that teachers also have to jump in for sick colleagues, so all teachers in the school must agree, because everyone could be exposed to this “consumption” that he still needs to teach at 2.30 p.m. They do not even give countries such as Vienna, where there is evidence that there is a great demand for full day schools, the opportunity to set up these all day schools without these obstacles. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But isn't that scary? That's scary!]] I quote Schiller and say, Madam, give me all day school freedom! That would be necessary once! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Joseph, isn't that scary?]] – Then you will get a personal answer. I fear your calls, even if they are against me. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Especially because they are particularly unqualified!]] I didn't hear it at all. I really have to listen to you now, but I'm not doing it now. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, thank you for your calls! On TV you can't hear them, there you look like a stupid fish in the aquarium. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] You were already better, because you had tablets to underline what you wanted to say, but today you have found nothing worth writing – which I understand, because the school policy of this federal government is judged by the public by four to five. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who? You!]] When I read “NEWS” this week and see that the Minister of Education is in the final position in the ministerial ranking, I say that this cannot be due to her personal qualities, for the Minister of the State is a pleasant, correct, approachable interlocutor in everything. She is also unworthy in her appearances in the public. So it can't be her, it must be what you and her represent, a school policy that many parents in Austria simply don't want anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I do not want to respond to these calls, because you do not hear what you say. It's always so one-sided. They'll come out after me and talk, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic.]] I'll give you a simple example: Further education is very often used as an unregistered secondary employment. Further education is something that is typically black. That is why we depend on surveys by parents and on bills. According to these calculations, Austria's parents spend about €100 million a year so that their children can buy what they couldn't teach at school – for what reason – with private money. [[Abg. Lens: Since Sinowatz!]] A school must be able to support even the weaker students in such a way that they reach the class goal and that it does not depend on the willingness and financial possibilities of the parents whether they are encouraged to sit or whether they are transferred from the AHS to the primary school. It can't be! So a good school policy, as we want it, should make reassurance unnecessary once and for all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to say, Mr President, with your tenacious permission, two sentences on the access restrictions at the universities. They are not in question for the Socialist parliamentary group. However, we are still in good conversation with the Federal Minister, Mrs Bleckmann and Mrs. Dr. Brinek. And to Mrs. Bleckmann, I'm just saying, I've been talking to you the last time I've been talking to you in a little chamber. If you tell this in here, we will have to deal with each other in the future like North Korea and South Korea in Pjöngyang.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4908	Mrs Rosenkranz is now speaking. Their speaking time is also 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4929	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TVs, especially if you are parents! One can congratulate you on the last day of school or better on the first day of the holiday if you were confronted with positive testimonies. I know from my own experience – I had to accept seven testimonies this year – that this also has a great influence on the situation in the family. I also appeal to all the parents of those children whose testimonies were not the way they should have been, not to make a drama out of them. In addition to the accident that one has not proven in school that the holidays have been puked, the scratch in the family is added. Thus a vicious circle is set in motion, from which one may not easily come out. This makes it quite clear how close the interaction between family and school must be and how it is necessarily. And if it is a good cooperation, it shows how it can have a positive effect on school success. For this package. Today, surprisingly little controversial discussion has been made. One could have imagined a more lively debate after the great excitement and excitement over the results of the PISA study, but apparently it was a little artificial excitement to PISA again. I think we can see that the Austrian school system in its basic building blocks is a very, very good system. This is also important, because shortly after PISA, one had the impression that every other country had a better system, that Austria was somehow completely behind and had far-reaching and hidden ideas that are unsocial and do not meet the modern requirements. The reference to Humboldt has also been made. We Austrians, in particular, should not ruin ourselves the good image that we actually need to have in terms of education and training. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] After all, we are the second country to Hessen, which introduced general schooling very early. This was a very great cultural achievement, by the way, from the beginning for both sexes, which is an even greater cultural achievement. This is also the tradition of Austrian education policy since then. So we have no reason at all to put our light in this relationship, because that has not changed in the meantime. If you take the biographies of large people, very successful people, then you can very often find that these people, thanks to the Austrian school system, have come to the highest peaks, to the Nobel Prize rank – and this without any access to so-called elite schools that have not been used by us so far, because every school was an elite school. This is a completely different system than in the Anglo-Saxon countries. I mean, that's to be underlined and maintained. Whoever in Austria – it was anyway, and it is also desirable that this remains so – has passed through the Austrian schools, was able to push up to the top in all areas. This is a great democratic achievement that we can really be proud of. The Austrian school system is good in its basic building blocks, and it is also pleasant that today's debate has not become a debate on the overall school as soon as the PISA study is concerned, because this would be a very short-sighted interpretation of PISA. If you draw the internal comparison, you will find that, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, exactly in those federal states where there is the total school, the result is much worse than in those federal states – compare Bavaria and Berlin! – where, as in Austria, there is still a structured school system. I do not want to make a priority now, but this conclusion is not acceptable, just as it would not be allowed to derive from other conditions that Finland has, that it is at the forefront because there are 20 percent fewer hours of schooling in Finland. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If we take another 20 percent of school hours, it may be better! Or: The Finnish teachers are paid less, much less. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's do that! Korea is the second country: There are hardly any school classes among 50 students. To say, this too would be a good way to advance to the top, it should not be so easy, and it is good that after the first wave of interpretation – I understand that then everyone for his ideological ideas creates arguments as to how he can get them – has now come back to a more solid basis. I believe that the education system – and this actually marks the Austrian education system – needs to carry out essentially two tasks: It must be accessible to all social layers. The origin, the material conditions must by no means play a role in the path taken, and it must take into account the different inclinations and talents of man – that is, the organized school system is a very good means. Another sentence on the following subject: The underestimation of the primary school, which it actually is, and thus the underestimation of the particularly practically oriented work, is something that surprises me with your social democrats. Rather, it would be a right way to determine – in order to say it salopp: the world does not just need ovaries – that people are differently gifted, that some people are primarily theoretically gifted and that there are other people who are primarily practically gifted, which does not mean, of course, that after Humboldt’s educational idea they should not get a basis for fully participating in cultural life, but it is a priority to do his work well as a skilled worker. [[Abg. May. Worm: The income of parents must not be decisive!]] If a worker, if – I have used this example before, because it is really so touching and I have just thought about it in house construction – is already getting dark and when the ice rain comes, is still standing in the künettes and without grumbling and grumbling the work that needs to be done on that day, then it is worth as much as if someone else is doing a first-class performance on the desk; and that must be honoured. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that you, especially you, do not really get your suspicious attitude towards the divided school system and do not do so because our divided school system is extremely permeable. We know that now more students reach the Matura via the primary school and BHS than via the AHS. On the second topic, where debates and controversy can always occur: Afternoon care versus all day school. I mean, volunteering here is really the good thing. Of course, the school organisation has to take into account the current conditions such as the work of both parents and make offers. Thankfully, this is also the case in this school package. However, it is quite wrong to reject it, because if you rightly see – I think Mr Brosz was – that children of far-off families also have less prospects of obtaining higher education, then of course that is true. This shows the link between the commitment and the education proximity of the parents and the success of the children, but the conclusion I draw from it should perhaps be reasonable to think that there is a willingness to help the children themselves and directly in school problems and thus to guarantee the success, that there is nothing in the way, however, where there is no such willingness or where the opportunities are not given, to enter and offer day care. That's, I think, absolutely correct. I mean, however, that the means “more school – less family brings more justice” is a false means, because it is a levelling down that we do not want. Grosso modo: The school system is good. There are adaptations in an up-to-date and modern direction. The requirements of time are met in this school law package. In conclusion: Mr Broukal, if you now measure the Minister at the "NEWS" ranking, I would rather, we will stay with PISA.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e4983	Now, Mr Mag. State Secretary is coming. Sweitzer to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5004	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The educational debate, as led by the opposition parties, is characterized by a lot of sick people, bad-making and, above all, selective perceptions. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: No polemics from the government bank!]] I would like to try then to correct the whole thing. Mr Brosz, the main speaker of the Greens, who has found the salvation of education policy in Finland in particular, has also indicated that the quality of the education system is measured in youth unemployment. – Well, then we measure and compare youth unemployment rates within the European Union! Let us look in particular at where Austria and where Finland are located! Mr Brosz, it would have been easy for you to look at these figures. Then you would have seen that Finland, with an average youth unemployment of 21 per cent, is fourth in number and that Austria, with an average youth unemployment of 6 per cent, is primarily within the European Union. If that is a measure of degree, then we do not need to take Finland as a model, then the system in Austria is really a much better thing than that in Finland. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But let us also look at the background to what it looks like in Finland and what it looks like in Austria and under what conditions certain figures are achieved. In Finland there are 1.3 percent children with migration backgrounds, and in Austria there are 14 percent. Finland has long had its own language promotion classes, while the attempt to introduce such language promotion classes in Austria has been vehemently prevented and repeatedly criticized by you, especially by the Greens and also by the Social Democrats. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You already need to know whether you want to have the basis of success that you see as positive in Finland, also for Austria, or whether you do not want to have what is going and what is going on in Finland, namely the language support classes, in Austria. We want them and we have wanted them for a long time because, as Mrs Mandak rightly said, there is a need for equal opportunities for education. And the same opportunities for education are given by mastering the teaching language. Mrs Mandak, I am sure you will agree. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The language of teaching can be mastered by creating the conditions for it. The conditions for mastering the language of teaching are given if you look in time for the offer to be available. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you need the mother tongue, too?]] Let us now, Mr Brosz, be aware of the voices of the leading opposition politicians when it comes to introducing language courses. Let us look at what they all said when it came to introducing these language promotion classes and also the language courses within the framework of this integration package. [[Abg. Mandak: These are two pairs of shoes!]] For example, when it came to the introduction of these language courses, I have made statements from Mr Stoisits, who said that this was once again the anti-foreign manuscript of the FPÖ. The whole is the anti-foreign manuscript of the FPÖ. – As far as Colleague Stoisits is concerned. ==References== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] Or – when it came to introducing these language courses –: This is a kneefall of Strasser in front of the FPÖ, said Mrs Kuntzl. [[Abg. Sburny: Because you want the mother tongue completely...!]] Or – when it came to introducing these language courses –: Erwin Niederwieser called it pure schikane. Or: Col. Bures said German courses bordering cynicism. – That was your position when it came to introducing what is going on and what is going on in Finland and what you are saying here as a means of miracle, which has led Finland to the fact that the PISA results are so positive in terms of language skills and ability to read?- Oh, my God! If you want to achieve the results of Finland on this issue, you also have to say clearly and clearly that this was the right thing that we have been demanding for a long time and has now been introduced very slowly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: I don't know!]] The language early promotion that is now coming is, of course, the best condition for further improvement in this area. The aim must be that all children who come to the first class of folk school should have sufficient mastery of the German language if they... [[Abg. Oillinger: But also your mother tongue!]] - Of course! But if the success of the school is to be given, Mr Oellinger, then you will already admit it to me, it will be necessary to master the teaching language. [[Abg. Oillinger: The mother tongue too!]] – And the mother tongue, of course. But when it comes to teaching, it is primarily about the language of teaching. We will achieve this objective with this early promotion, which is that everyone can follow lessons. We will achieve what you demand with this early promotion, with this pre-scribing of the school entrance on October, November one year before the school's entry, and at the same time with the language stand by the headmaster. We do something about this early diagnosis, with this early promotion, which the experts believe is supposed to be 120 hours. We will offer up to four hours a week to achieve this goal. The entire action is supported by the federal government with 80 € per child. There will also be a corresponding range of continuing and continuing education for kindergarten teachers so that this objective can be fully achieved. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been criticized here that there has been too little progress in education policy. That had a very special reason. Last but not least, it was the two-thirds majority that was necessary if we wanted to decide something that prevented any progress. It was the true brake block in the further development of the system. I am glad that in recent months we have agreed that this two-thirds majority is no longer necessary. The change to the name of the “federation exercise” in “moving education” which has already been mentioned today was not even possible, because it was prevented by this two-thirds majority. For me, it is particularly important that we have not only renamed this subject, Mr Brosz, it is also important for me that we now have the opportunity, in the framework of voluntary afternoon care, to offer this education to an increasing extent. All that you ask for and whatever Mr Schasching's request, we will now implement it. I am very glad that I can tell you that there is not only this cooperation between schools and sports clubs and that it is not only possible, but that a lot is actually happening. You know that since the last week we have been supporting some projects with enormous financial resources for us to bring more sport to schools. We have school projects on the so-called § 9 para. 4 which are supported by a sum of almost €500 000. The umbrella associations ASKÖ, ASVÖ and Union now have the opportunity to develop this voluntary afternoon service with their clubs also with sporting priorities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will support this next year, as we said, with €500 000. Moreover, in all those areas where the associations are not able to do so, there is another project that we have made together with a credit institution and other partners: We will go to 110 political districts, in 110 schools, reaching 120,000 students. This is a project with a total cost of €300 000, bringing even more units of movement to schools. [[Abg. Brosz: Which agenda item does that belong to?]] I believe that the demand that you made after the discharge of the students, by which the total hours were reduced, which was entitled, is now fulfilled, namely that not less, but more sports will take place in schools, and that we have made a significant contribution to this in cooperation with the Federal Ministry. I would like to thank you for the constructive cooperation that has been possible in this area, and I am pleased for more than 400 000 students who will have these additional sports opportunities available next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5177	Mrs Sburny's next speech. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5198	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Schweitzer, State Secretary! I am not quite sure whether it makes sense in your understanding of school and education to discuss it at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: Please!]] But I'll try again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: scandalous!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] First: What the Greens have always said and what has been scientifically proven is that children need their mother tongue to learn another language. That is, children who do not control their mother tongue cannot, or are much more difficult to learn a foreign language, in this case German. That is why we have always demanded that there be enough money for this mother tongue teaching so that you can put up with German-speaking lessons. What you're doing is to play both things against each other instead of bringing them together. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Secondly, The Greens have always supported every form of German learning. What you've done in the government over the past five years is that you've been extremely apart in this area. There were still 2 000 teachers in 2000 who were employed for this purpose. Now, after five years of blue-black, black-blue/orange, whatever, bowl/hair at least, it's 700! [[Abg. Amon: And how many students less?]] This is a dramatic reduction in the area you now claim to be so important to you. That's just dishonest. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: Have you also looked at the number of students?]] In this context, it would also be interesting to see what you spend money for. You are probably aware of this, Mr State Secretary, perhaps not the other one. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] This is not a BZÖ advertising, as one could assume, but an advertisement by Mr Schweitzer State Secretary “Future Moved Austria” with BZÖ presentation. [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: Come on Monday!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Please!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: Where?]] This is a very small mosaic stone of a whole campaign, with which Mrs Haubner, Secretary of State Dolinschek and Mr. State Secretary Schweitzer make party advertising with public funds, public funds, which you then do not have for the school sector. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is abuse!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We'll see if the col-league in Upper Austria has used green or black font!]] – We need a lot more money for education. The point about why this is not just about PISA is simply the one that Mr Brosz has already mentioned: that in the draft law that we are discussing today, you are practically not responding to PISA at all. That is why we are discussing the draft law and not the consequences of PISA. In any case, this possibility of afternoon care, which is a large part of this bill, is a wrong approach as you have designed. The possibility of an afternoon care is given, but there is no legal claim on it. I would like to comment once again on why we consider it important that there is a legal claim: There must be security over an offer. They are set out in the explanatory notes to the draft law: The parents need to be informed about the possibility of day care, then the need will be raised afterwards. This reminds me of the train connections where there are also very large gaps. That's why all people have to drive the car. For example, on my route between Langenlois and Vienna, if you have to drive later in the evening, there is no train connection. That's why you have to drive the car. Then you'll be asked: Do you need the train connection? – And a lot of people who are not really focused on driving by train – like me or many others of us – then say: No, 'cause I'm driving the car anyway! It seems to me that you are making your surveys in this way. For the surveys show that in many cases parents have already organized grandparents or other care options and therefore say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shydermair]] Well, right now I don't need it, nor if I don't know if I have it again next year! - The parents don't know. If the number of pupils for whom a need for care is applied falls below 15, there will be no more care next year. Then they'd rather stick to their other solution and say: Actually, I don't need schooling. That's how your numbers of needs come about. In reality, everyone suffers from the fact that this afternoon care is not available. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, there is another specific which should not be mentioned and which the Minister has admitted: The fact is that, where communities and schools have tried to make this afternoon care available so far – for example, as happened in my municipality of Langenlois after many years of struggle – is not paid by the federal authorities. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] It will only be paid if the afternoon care is reintroduced. I ask you to resolve that again so that you can start again and that is financed? [[Abg. Scheibner: Ask that in the bank because the speaking time is out!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5414	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5436	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Sburny, I cordially invite you not to question the sensibility of a discussion as the basis of a democratic discussion process! You do not have to agree with every statement of the Secretary of State, but it always makes sense to put his arguments on the table. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sburny: I did it anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is well known that Mr Broukal is very speaking on the basis of his previous profession, especially in subtlety. [[Call the ÖVP: Wella! Keep yourself in bounds!]] But if he always mentions that only the restricted school of the whole day is a full school – and I know that the colleagues there are doing excellent work – then I am against the fact that all schools, regardless of whether they are organized in four hours, in six hours, all day or weekly, are full value schools in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For us, all day care is an offer, because we want to take into account the freedom of choice of families, even in terms of leisure activities, and because the knowledge-learning and self-moving in communities other than the school – ask the children once! – is a necessary upgrade in the learning process and in growing up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this context, I would like to make a statement by the chairman of the Univ.-Prof. DDr. It is freshly important, which has drawn a meaningful perspective for the Stability Pact from 2007 onwards, and we naturally have to fight for countries to establish the teacher-student relationship in the financial balance. But I note that this is not an ad libitum. We should benefit from the decline in the number of pupils, which is now in the basic level and therefore in the responsibility of the countries that will then continue to become secondarys I and II, in order to ensure that we can also form smaller classes and that we receive the small schools in rural areas accordingly. This is an important concern of my party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the first day of this three-day plenary session we talked about the scenario about Europe, the mis-ignitions in the further process in Europe, about national egoisms; we were surprised yesterday by man-regarding terror; we are talking today about education: Somehow that seems to belong together. How long have we been affected and affected by such images of horror? Who really remembers September 2001 in New York? Or more than a year ago in Madrid? Ladies and gentlemen! In three days there is a sad, ten-year anniversary: 8,000 Bosnian Serbs have not died in Srebrenica, they have been slaughtered. How does that actually affect? What can school do? And here I am already with Josef Broukal, who has also spoken of the value-raising, of the formation of the heart next to the technical training. We need to bring our children back to their consideration, responsibility, friendship instead of egoism, responsibility for the future and a rejection to the Zeitgeist society, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This can't be done alone. Roman Herzog, the former President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I very much appreciate, has formulated: More and more parents are issuing their education assignment to the school, and they are to judge what they do not create at home. We must not exaggerate our educators! We also need to create the necessary free space for them in a good school partnership. Let us be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the return to these values can only happen in the family. Family is not the place of regulations, family is the place of role models! If values are experienced or not, that can only happen there. Family policy, as we understand it, is therefore the accent that can actually be promoted. If we have to turn our children into hope-bearers in the truest sense of the word – and some of the words here have to make fear and panic and, in fact, unhappiness – it is not a question of forming a fatal I-Society as a form of society of the future, but a GmbH, a society with a solid hope for our youth in a peaceful future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5549	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5571	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! [[Abg. Scheibner: (on the table on the ground) Now it has fallen down!]] –My Taferl fell by? - Thank you. [[Abg. Scheibner: We should perhaps have given Mr Neugebauer more time to speak!]] So that the spectators can read what we understand from all day school, and so that they can read about our educational goals too! [[The speaker presented a board with the title “www.ganztagsschule.at” on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Forced day school! You forgot that "z"!]] I would like to join my colleague Neugebauer's remarkable speech and say that many children from war - leading countries have fled to Austria with their parents in the past and that we have included and integrated these children in our schools in Austria and especially in Vienna. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] This has been done by many teachers with enormous effort and commitment and against the contradictions of the school system that has made it difficult for them to do so. We must thank ourselves very much for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to come to today's school reform package and, above all, to realize that many thousands of students, as well as their parents, teachers, deserved their holidays. Some of these students might have wanted to spend a month by the sea with the whole family. It's not for everyone. That's a nice goal. It is a pity that not everyone can afford this or not everyone has the time to do it. Some of them have to get to the edge with an inflatable baby plant pool. The same is true of us now and today with this reform presented here. After PISA, according to the results of the future discussion, after the case of the two-thirds majority and a joint intensive debt debate, we wanted to see a real reform. We got an inflatable baby plant pool: a minireförm, something very small, something you're trying to give us back what has been lost in the last five years. I would like to do this in detail now, because I think that many people who want our school to improve, and it urgently needs our school system to be improved, know what they really expect. We, the SPÖ, imagine that we form smaller classes. The SPÖ imagines that there must be more common learning. We imagine and we demand that more individual lessons be done, that more pedagogical concepts are available to parents and children throughout the day. This also means, of course, to introduce the form of the whole day school, under the same conditions as this afternoon care. There is no equality in the school system if 15 parents of children are allowed to choose afternoon care and two thirds of a school is needed to introduce a full day school. This is not the equality we demand. This is not equal opportunities in choosing the school system. Therefore, we can only agree to the draft law with a very heavy heart, because a few small points have been made in the baby plant basin, but that is too little for us. We wish you at least one whole week by the sea. This would also be in line with the call of the parent association, where 90 000 citizens have signed to ensure the quality of the school: Money alone does not guarantee quality education. But quality education also has its price. - That's what the parents say. And that is why we call for this in all our education measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to add a sentence for the renaming of “Leibes Education” into “Moving and Sport”. Five years old is my request, why has it never been implemented? – Because the government parties did not agree. He is now included in the reform. [[Abg. Amon: You didn't agree to the package!]] That's what I'm saying: good, wonderful. – But what is the substance behind it? It is now called “movement and sport”, but there is less exercise and sports in school because many non-binding exercises were reduced during the first and many hours of the second savings package in education. What we need is more mandatory gymnastics in school! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Unfortunately, Mr State Secretary, we are working together to do something biting in cooperation. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] There must be an hour of daily movement in schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5698	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5720	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Broukal – he is not here now, but you may be able to do so – I see no need for the government to pass something by. This government has no reason to do so because this school package is really very concrete measures to improve the education system in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Oja! Election!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Schasching! Their constant contribution to the education system, which focuses purely on the whole day school, is too little to guarantee a modern education system in the future in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One of the priorities of this school package is the professional maturity examination, which is quality assurance for professional maturity examination, for an educational opportunity that is unique in Europe. It shows that it is a great success story, is gaining in importance and is a very popular educational opportunity. This is particularly true in the field of the integration of teaching and matura, which guarantees the permeability of the education system and is an enriching of the educational offer. I see it very positive that the SPÖ colleagues are agreeing with us in this area of professional maturity examination, and that is also welcome. I think it is very strange of the Greens that this topic has not been mentioned in any of their contributions. It is something positive and it may not seem to be positively supported and mentioned by your side. But those who make the professional maturity test have better career opportunities and new career opportunities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] This also opens the door to university education. We will still be discussing free university access today, which we wish to receive as much as possible, even if the judgment of the European Court of Justice makes it difficult for us to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! The professional maturity test is very often a financial burden and a high cost for those who want to make this training. It must be our objective to allow free access to this professional maturity test for all in the future. There is, therefore, this motion for a resolution on today's bill asking the Federal Minister to find attractive models of support to make this professional maturity test available to as many people as possible. I would like to mention a very positive project in Carinthia in this context, where the pilot project “Teaching with Matura” together with a large food group and the Kärntner state government is very successful. It is also very successful for the company, because it is precisely in this area that good, intensive cooperation between the economy and school is possible in the sense of a dual education system. There is really a win-win situation between businesses and trainees. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The connection between matura and teaching will become more and more important, as the requirements for vocational training are increasing. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to this school package, which we decide today as a bill, there are further quality developments and measures taken at Austrian schools. Some have already been mentioned: language early promotion, the initiative to promote reading, where binding reading screening will enable further activities and impulses for better reading of children in the future. Also in the field of funding education, it was mentioned today that it was too few hours. I think 1.5 million hours of funding are a good basis, which will continue to be evaluated in the future in order to adapt the needs to the needs of children. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This school package 1 is a further step towards increasing school quality, a quality for our children, and a very good investment in our future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5792	I'm now distributing the last half hour of television time: These are 7 minutes each. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Speaking time, as I said, seven minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5817	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! On the other hand, I have the impression that the debate is a bit spooky. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This view is reinforced by the words of the ÖVP. I often have the feeling that it is a cool shower when I think that this is all you have to offer in education policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The achievements that have so far been mentioned by your side in this debate, on which Mr Amon, President-in-Office of the ÖVP, is obviously willing to rest, seem to be the introduction of the general school obligation centuries ago and the architectural prizes for school buildings. Is that really all we can be sufficiently proud of, so that we can say that it was already, that we no longer need to do more in the Austrian education system? - But that's not the way it is. [[Abg. Amon: I didn't even mention it!]] Mr Werner Amon of the ÖVP! You meant you didn't mention the word – that's right. That wasn't you, but it was speakers from the government coalition. You meant it was okay. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who was that now? That's what we want to know!]] Although there is this funny PISA study, it is only a current snapshot that refers only to a single day, it is not necessary to take this more seriously – according to the meaning of the word. Mr. colleague, you have not spoken of “an internationally renowned comparative study on education systems”, but of the international study on education systems, which clearly confirms Austria that in some areas we should strive to get even better. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have also heard from Mrs. Minister how pleased we are all – and I am really pleased that schoolchildren and the young people in Austria are now on vacation. Mrs. Minister! In some cases, these vacations pose quite serious problems for parents. It is already known to you that for working parents, especially for working mothers, it is not so easy if, for example, there is no child care for today or tomorrow for two months, but the woman wants to continue her career. How are women to organize this from today to tomorrow? How should parents organize this? What's your answer to that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: What is the solution for this?]] By the way, I also found exciting, Mrs Minister – perhaps you have the ability to look into the future that I do not have – that you are pleased that the number of recessors is much lower than in previous years. That is, you know today that those students who have to spend their holidays learning to check out will get through. Then let's just do this, let's get it up! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The problem with the care of schoolchildren is not only now in the holidays, that is there again and again throughout the country in the afternoon. Therefore, what you call day care – I call it afternoon care – is also a topic today. They used a very strange term in this context and made a difference between voluntary and mandatory care. They are different from the mandatory one for a voluntary afternoon service. I don't know if You either got something wrong or I did. [[Abg. Scheibner: In case of doubt you!]] I do not mean, at least, that the communities should volunteer to provide afternoon care, but I believe that the communities and schools should be obliged, with a legal claim for the parents, to offer an afternoon care and that you have to support them accordingly by the federal government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what we didn't mean is that every child should be mandatory in the afternoon care. This should certainly be a voluntary opportunity for schoolchildren who can take advantage of parents, but they must have a guaranteed opportunity to do so and cannot be dependent on any demand surveys. Let me give you an example on the issue of raising needs, because we already have sufficient knowledge of this from childcare for younger children. In the case of your demand surveys, it always emerges that there is either Austria-wide or in the smallest community alleged to be no need. Take the municipality of Wulkaprodersdorf in Burgenland, which I know. There a children’s hort was to be built, and there was a previous demand survey. This, of course, was the usual problem. The people who had children in their old age have already had to organize, so the demand survey showed that there are two children who need one. You did it anyway. Two years later, when the Hort was finished, it turned out that 20 children needed and he has always been full since then. – So much on the subject of demand surveys. Do not press ahead with the responsibility, do not move children into any families in which they are supposed to be cared for, but do not have proper, educationally valuable care, and for lunch to the inn! Make a high-quality care available throughout Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You think it is enough for the Austrian children and young people to propose any provisional solution that the communities may not implement. Should they go to the inn for lunch, if there is no afternoon care at school, they should go somewhere where it is not even guaranteed that they can do their homework in peace! – I do not imagine that under Austrian education policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] One last point that is on my mind precisely because we now have vacations in which some students have to learn for examinations, and because it is always a sad topic during the school year: the follow-up. In reality, with your education policy, you build a system where you rely on parents – usually mothers – to learn with the children at home and to pay in addition to private after-sales lessons all year round, because you do not want to give the students in school the necessary funding. Finally, give the schools in Austria the means to promote all children at school! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, as a woman's spokesman, I ask: With a reasonable education policy, at the same time, give both parents, fathers and mothers, the opportunity to pursue their professional activity as parents would like it, as mothers would like – and not as you think ideologically to have to prescribe it to them!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5965	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e5986	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Do you know what's really spooky? – I believe that you are questioning that a mother or a father is interested in sitting with the children during the holiday season and trying together to ensure that a child creates the follow-up examination, the post-primary examination at the end of a school year. What is bad about parents trying to be there for their children, and especially in the summer months, where it is also easier to take care of the children in the professional life? That's really spooky for me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Mandak: Because not all parents can!]] [[Abg. Oils: This is worse than your sausages!]] I would just like to appeal to you, Mrs Weinzinger: Do not forget that Austria consists of cities as well as small regions! Everything that applies to the city does not apply to a small community where the kindergarten is locked up because no children want to come. [[Call the Greens: What?]] You must finally learn to distinguish between theory and practice, and I would really suggest that to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Neugebauer has already pointed out in great detail today what the school should actually have for a job in our society. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Is this a sausage collection story?]] I am very glad that we are presenting today a school package that is not a series of pieces, but this school package is the result of a long and detailed educational debate. It is good that it has an overall context and puts two principles in the foreground: It must be the basic principle of teaching to highlight the promotion of both the promotion of performance potential and the promotion of learning weaknesses. And I think we succeeded. This includes a lot of elements. This also includes some organizational things, but above all it concerns the content. If before, Mrs. Schasching – I think she was – has lamented that she herself has been making a request for five years, which should be called “work and sport”, then I can only say: If you had agreed to our concept of AHS upper-level reform five years ago, we would have done this for five years. But you refused your consent back then, so don't start running five years later! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank God we do it now, and we also do other things. It is also a matter of parents in the broadest context, because if we now introduce the five-day week, then this is an adaptation to society, then it is an adaptation to the work of mothers, and then it is also necessary that the school system be adapted to the labour market in organisational matters. With regard to the promotion of young people, much has already happened through the early warning system alone. If you know that 2.3 percent of all primary students still had to do a review in 1995 and it's only 1.4 percent now, then you have to say that's positive. And if the AHS students were 8.2 percent in 1995 and now only 6.2 percent, this is also a real step in the right direction. That is, we are on the right track, and we want to continue this success course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: 6 percent of AHS students?]] A good school system is not only the performance of the pupils, it certainly also includes the performance of teachers, and I am therefore very glad that we will now also decide on compulsory teacher education. It is a matter of course that lifelong learning also applies to teachers and not just to everyone else. I believe that this is also the need that teachers themselves have, and so we will support it. Positive mention is also made of the Leadership Academy, which will also provide support to the Director, who today needs to have a pedagogical and an economic competence. Since we are still talking a lot about universities and students today, I would also like to refer to the professional maturity exam and the apprentices. I am very glad that we have set ourselves the goal of supporting the professional maturity test financially as well. If a person decides on the first course of education to pursue an academic career, he is very generously supported by the state; if he does this in the second course of education, he already has a bit more difficult: a professional maturity test costs an average of €1,500. This is not a little money, so we want to support young people here. If 3 percent of all students at the Austrian universities have a professional maturity examination or a study qualification exam, this is already a clear signal that our education system has become more transparent. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this educational package is another milestone in youth policy in our society. We have done a lot in the last few days – I refer once again to the reduction of the presence service and civil service – and today the part of the education is in place, and we can be very satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6097	Next item is the report by Mr Faul. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6118	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, if you are talking about a great recipe for success here, you can also say a distance from reality that you have already shown in the past with many statements, that will remain at your home. They have forgotten to talk to those involved in school, to teachers, to parents, but also to the students in the higher schools. Mr Neugebauer, it's nice to be able to go into great philosophies, I can congratulate you cordially, but I think we're coming back to the nerds, and these are more disillusioned than ever, although I share your statements. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Let's handle everything, you know!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! We are pleased to be able to agree to a law that bears our handwriting, which corresponds to the circumstances of today's working world and the people who are very flexible at work, in their work and who are particularly affected by it as single mothers, but also as single fathers. [[Abg. Zweytick: I don't think so, Christian!]] They and their children will be particularly concerned about this day care and about what will happen to the child after school. But what bothers us, Mrs. Federal Minister, is the fact that, with this narrow version, with this minimum number of 15 students, you are greatly restricting the possibility of day care at small school locations with perhaps lower demand. And what is particularly disturbing to us, Mrs. Federal Minister – if I tell you, then I also mean the mayors and local authorities in the ÖVP series – is that you are doing two classes of students, two classes of children: one in your federal schools, which is subject to your care, and one in the compulsory school area, which you hand over to the countries – but you know it very well – into the responsibilities of the communities. [[Abg. Rädler: Where's the problem?]] - You'll hear it soon! Mrs. Federal Minister! You've taken good care of your students, the AHS students. There is an hourly package and the value of the AHS teachers, who thereby improves – so your ministry calculates – that there are simply other values, and in the autonomy of your school locations, each teacher and each teacher can have this use autonomously. The provision of the premises, Mrs Bundesminister, of course pays you. It's quite different with us in compulsory schools. They give us the same package of five hours, but expect from us, from the communities, a quadruple of the hours as a basis for you giving us the hour package at all. Before the decision is taken here in Parliament, the regulation on the Councils of State Schools comes into effect. Maybe you don't know yet, so I'll tell you: There can only be one location in two schools of equal availability, which provides afternoon care. I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: Why? Where is the autonomy for schools, and where is the right of opportunity for priority schools in particular? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In order to achieve a better ratio of your costs, Mrs. Federal Minister, to the municipal costs, the communities can include the care obligations – we have already heard it today – in associations, in Horte, in sports organisations or also in community-owned societies. Again, Mrs. Federal Minister, you are resisting an anti-dote. Organisations in municipalities that have been very successful in child care, in the afternoon care, cannot benefit from your grants, and we find that in principle wrong. You have to explain this to us, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Bundesminister, therefore we ask you: [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Create You have the same conditions for students of the same age! Give the communities that are the real payers for compulsory schools and their school locations the same autonomy as your federal school locations! Make sure that the difference in the values of the teachers to the AHS and the compulsory schools does not drive the gap of teacher remuneration further apart! – This is also a wish for you, colleague Neugebauer! [[Abg. Neugebauer: You know that there are different systems!]] Make sure, Mrs. Federal Minister, that by counting together – and that is a very important requirement! – the number of students in schools of equal accessibility does not explode the number of students in the urban schools, because we need to improve the number of students in the elementary schools in relation to them. – By the way, I would also like to thank you for understanding the ÖVP series to share the demand for a minimum number of students of 25 with us. Mrs. Federal Minister! The studies carried out after the PISA study clearly demonstrate what we, as teachers, already know in our schools: High schooling numbers are an indicator of poor schooling and are rightly criticized by those concerned, parents, students and teachers. Create They provide them with additional funding opportunities to better promote the students – I think we need that very urgently – and in order to provide teachers at our schools with the opportunity to continue working in their profession. In case you don't know what I'm talking about, I'll bring you an example from the Styria. Do you find it normal, Mrs. Federal Minister, that teachers aged 40 to 45, who have been serving at a school for 20 years, should suddenly lose their job in order to push out a teacher at another school location who has been serving there for 15 or 16 years? Do you think it is right, Mrs. Federal Minister, that, according to our serious calculations, graduates of the academies at the Styrian schools want to see the schoolhouse for the first time at the age of 55? Do you think it is right, Mrs. Federal Minister, that in Styria two academies are still training teachers, actually for the purpose and for the self-retaining of their institutes, and that you are leaving so much time with the installation of the educational universities? Do you think it is right, Mrs Bundesminister, that, due to your savings, school tests in the Austrian school system are no longer possible at all? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Amon: You decided the schedule! Awesome populism!]] School attempts would motivate teachers very much and give school life new momentum, which it really needs. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Mrs. Federal Minister – I come to the conclusion – stands firm for us: The school is subject to the dictatorship of money and the dictatorship of our Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6241	That was your final point. [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Holy shit.]] Mrs Mittermüller is speaking next time. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6272	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! This federal government has written the promotion of families and the educational offensive in its government programme and has already implemented much of it – especially in the area of families – very ambitiously. The educational and family policy content of the 2005 school law package focuses on the current living conditions of people in our country. They are, in particular, an important step towards improving quality in education. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With the five-day week for 6- to 14-year-olds provided for in the novelle, the student leave is adapted to the parental leave, so families can spend the weekend together and thus more time together. The changes in our society are a major challenge, especially in the field of compulsory schooling. The fact that the work of the parents and the single-parents in our children creates shortcomings certainly cannot be discussed away. The introduction of high-quality day care in the Novellle therefore means a very necessary further development of our school system. In the future, each school will offer a daily care model from 8 am to 4 pm when at least 15 children register. On this point, Mrs Bundesminister, I see a small problem for rural communities. What do we do if it does not come to the necessary minimum applications? In my district in the municipality of Himmelberg, I have the case that twelve children are registered for all day care. I know there are also cross-school opportunities, but I should like to point out that, especially in the rural area, the wide range is certainly a problem. I think we will have to discuss this in the future. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP, as well as representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Learning and leisure activities are included in the afternoon care with the full-day model. The involvement of associations, in particular of sports clubs, according to the model of Mr. State Secretary Karl Schweitzer is certainly a very useful one. This will give the children the opportunity to act healthyly and sportily. The term “sport” will cover a wide-ranging field with the term “school hours” so far, and the health of our children will certainly thank it. I am sure that we can also welcome the planned cost-taking of care hours by the federal government and countries. Depending on the care model, this should remain a viable parent's contribution, which we also very much welcome. After all, the cost factor is not an insignificant one. We know that especially among families and children who need care very much and who are located in the lower incomes, this is usually a major obstacle. It also confirmed to me a Carinthian school psychologist that, at low cost, much more afternoon care is taken, and he would also very much welcome the fact that the necessary resources are being made available for it, especially in the case of single-parents. Overall, then, a quality day care offer would certainly be a profit for our school system – and for the education level of our children definitely. This fact can only be welcomed with regard to the PISA study. We have put in an important concern of our liberals for the implementation of day care. It must preserve the freedom of choice of the parents. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Parents must have the opportunity to make decisions for the benefit of their own child. She – and only her! – they should be able to decide whether to take care of their child or whether they do not want to do so. A good package is on the way with this school package. I would like to thank Mrs Gehrer for ten thousand additional care places and for the necessary provision of € 8 million for the care costs. I can say at this point that only about 5 percent of Austrian children between 6 and 14 years of age – we have more than 800 000 – currently accept the afternoon care offer. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would not like to miss out on bringing the words of the school psychologist Dr. Lach from my home district of Feldkirchen into this debate and joining me in his opinion: We should not forget that family ties have a different quality for the children with all the current necessary renewals. The family cannot replace the best outpatient care. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the family – and only in her! – the child experiences his first confidence development. The child thus becomes relationshipable and loadable. It forms there – and only there! – also best his emotional intelligence. Every child – we know – needs sufficient nest heat to develop his personality. Knowing that we together – politics, parents and school – are responsible for the good development of our children, I will gladly agree to the school package. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mr State Secretary!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6378	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6399	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to make the proposed amendment which would guarantee a right to afternoon care. [[Quoted print version removed]] This bill would create a legal right to afternoon care. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To Mrs. Fuhrmann – she is not here now – who seems to see it as a special fun of the parents when she prepares her children for a post-principle, I can only say: It explores the reality of life quite dramatically, for usually it is not the parents who do this, but it is money that parents have to take in their hands. Who believes that children – especially those at higher schools – can be so loose, just by the way prepared for a post-principle, he should look closer to the Austrian school system. This has changed a lot lately.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6469	The amendment to the Government template 975 of the Supplements which has just been tabled by Mr Brosz is sufficiently supported, has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6536	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. That is to say, a real correction. – Mr deputies, you know the provisions: first of all, the corrective situation, then the corrected one; then, 2 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6560	Madam President. High house! Mr Amon, in his introductory remarks on the teaching debate to some SPÖ MPs from the “sick MPs of SPÖ” in slanderous, slanderous, unjust and inaccurate manner... [[Abg. Scheibner: “Vonderous”, please, that’s immense!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6605	Mr President, you have to start with a case to be corrected. No interpretation! [[Abg. Scheibner: For “devil” a call for order!]] And then you have to bring the corrected facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6632	That was the actual facts to be corrected. So I'm actually correcting: This claim is false! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amon's indiscriminately apostrophic speech...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6667	Deputies! Don't miss the allocations you've made with regard to denunciation, or I'll have to give you a call for order!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6686	The SPÖ Members who were designated in this way were not ill, but were completely correctly reported in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure as preventable.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6737	The next item is Mr Mag. Schweitzer. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6758	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Sburny and note that I am sorry that she is now taking over the old-known method of Peter Pilz to put a half-truth in the room here. [[Abg. Sburny: What is the “ half-truth ”?]] I'm going to put this right now and invite you to convince yourself that it's about presenting our work to people outside. [[Abg. Sburny: (a writing in height) BZÖ style!]] You can come, on Monday at 6.30 p.m.; I invite you from here to this event, which will run as well as in Mittersill and Kitzbühel: There we report on our large broadband project “Fit for Austria”. The officials of the ASVÖ, ASKÖ and Union, the officials of the trade associations, the representatives of the Sports Office and numerous top athletes are invited to do so. – As in Kitzbühel, for example, colleague Gutensohn or colleague Prock, the country presidents of the umbrella associations, you can come as well. It will be there among others Steffi Count, it will be Susanne Pumper, it will be Franz Stocher there and it will be Hans Be there at the end – all representatives of the top sports, certainly not to be associated with us, but sports enthusiasts. If you're interested in what we have to say there: You are invited, welcome, I will welcome you personally!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6811	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Brader. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6832	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Unfortunately, Mrs Weinzinger is not here, but I would like to say to her address that her unscrupulous statements on non-school and non-governmental childcare facilities are not only discriminatory but ideologically defying. I don't think it's the place here for any cryptic theories for childcare. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] But now to something completely different: Ladies and gentlemen! The 2005 school law package, presented for decision-making, includes priorities such as language promotion, reading promotion and the redesign of funding lessons with the aim of improving individualisation. All these points have an internal context, which is often not sufficiently seen, which often leads to misdevelopments in school planning, in teaching planning. If I try here and now to highlight the meaning of the language – and with that I also mean the meaning of the sign language – for the development of thought and thus for the education process, then not to support or reject the often stated by Mr Walch “think – read – speak” but to underline the importance of language and reading promotion. Although language is not the only sufficient condition for the development of thought – it is also important for internalisation of patterns of movement and action – but complex thoughts, complex processes of thought are embedded in language, are borne by the language and depend on language. Language is acquired in specific phases in the first years of life and is finished in their basic structures at the age of 5. At this age, a child should dominate all sounds and have all the essential grammatical structures. Later, only more quantitative growth is taking place. About 10 to 15 percent of our children have deficits in this area. These will be raised earlier in the future, and in a good, well-designed support model, these deficits will be countered. I am convinced that we will then find a different starting point from the starting point of the school. The amount of 4 hours per week provided for this is sufficient, and I think that this is just as important as reading promotion. But let me say a few more things to read: Unfortunately, reading is less and less important in the parents' home. Children experience their parents as well as never reading, reading is hardly read, and it is therefore not surprising that the children are less and less looking forward to reading. But it should be so that the children can no longer expect to finally be able to read. I think we can create the corresponding balancing moments here through the funding courses. It's absolutely necessary. But I am pleased that there is agreement on the essential points of this school law package, and I am also looking forward to the further school packages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6896	The next item is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's speech. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6918	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! The woman minister will come back, I think. – Did you notice that the Federal Minister today did not praise this school law package as a milestone? – This is what this Federal Government is doing, and for itself, so much likes: With every innovation, everything is sold as a milestone. But that's no wonder! – colleague Fuhrmann then did it, she tried to push a milestone into a small pack – that is about the way she buys a sausage cream by €10 – so much for it. We Social Democrats have contributed to the fact that this small school law package could still be improved. We have negotiated hard, we have negotiated well, and we have achieved that some of this package, for example, with regard to professional maturity tests, could be improved. There is a professional maturity test – you all know that – not only since now, but since 1997. It is particularly gratifying that two thirds of those who prepare for the professional maturity test already have a teaching or a professional worker's examination behind them. This form of higher qualification is of course something very, very important for this group, an important leap, an important step in a later study at a university or at the university. In the meantime, this success model was at short notice threatened by more bureaucracy, even though this state wanted to become slimmer, by a corresponding price increase, but together we were able to achieve that now someone with master's exam or a qualification test according to the trade regulations will also receive this training for professional maturity examination. Now, each candidate can also prepare for the examination process in good time, because the examiner does not come from the school authority, as provided for in the original draft, but from the respective departments, if the minister permits this, which I also believe. We have also negotiated well in this respect. I mean, all in all, improvements have been made especially for apprentices and skilled workers. But what really worries us – especially today is the last day of school in the still outstanding federal states – is that at school, 12 700 young people, young men and women, have not found a teaching place or are looking for an apprenticeship. We have very good proposals in our education programme, including vocational schools and their upgrading, which of course we want to continue to negotiate with you. You may also be able to address these good ideas according to our current suggestions for improvement. The fact is that we have a lot of professional schools that are very well equipped with workshops, with laboratories, partly even with apprenticeships and all that young people need for vocational training. We want these vocational schools, the theory and practice to be able to teach in one place where the economy cannot offer teaching places or teaching places enough. We want to discuss this very vehemently with you in the future. 12 700 young people are looking for an apprenticeship. We will only see at the end of this year how many have really received a teaching position, we will see whether the apprenticeship officer Blum's programme can achieve itself at all, we will see whether more sugar can be useful to the economy at all or whether we could not better use the vocational schools with their existing structures so that young people can come to a completed teaching and thus also vocational training. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a very, very important concern for us, and we are very concerned about the vocational training of young people. Unfortunately, this area has too little space in your educational landscape. Finally, it should be said: Our demand for free-of-charge diplomas from professional maturity examinations and other different degrees remains upright. In the primary school this is possible from the law, only the countries must do so and make it possible. It would be good if the Federal Minister and you, too, were worth a bit more that higher qualification would be easier for all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e6985	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7009	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Schweitzer said - the Secretary of State, I can correct that - that, Mr Schweitzer, the Secretary of State has said that the Dutch Member has called German courses pure schikane. [[Abg. May. Gässner: State Secretary!]] – This statement is incomplete and incorrect! I quote literally: “As ‘pure Schikane’, SPÖ-scientist Erwin Niederwieser refers to the mandatory German courses for international researchers, as provided for in the new Foreign Law.” – There’s certainly a difference!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7044	The next item is Mrs Felzmann's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7065	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In brief, Mr Weinzinger said: I do not know where my colleague Weinzinger is referring to her very narrow ideas about the image of women and what really concerns women. I would like to make a very clear distinction. This does not have anything to do with women who like to be at home and proud that they can raise their children, nor do they have anything to do with those women who want to get a job and family under one hat and therefore find solutions as they do. [[Abg. Sburny: Rather, this has to do with the men who have problems with the afternoon care!]] – It’s not easy, but we’re different! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is, and I ask you to tell your colleague that we are very well on the move. School's on the move. Not we rest, but it is so that you have not moved in any way in the discussion about the school package. [[Abg. Sburny: You don't know what you're talking about at all...!]] In this school package, the vocational maturity examination is integrated, the connection between teaching and matura. Many points have already been made, and I think we should give much more space to this issue in this House. Today it is still that we can rely on an excellent craftsmanship, on an excellent trade. We are really admired for this and for the dual education system. We face new challenges over and over again. Especially in urban space, this is a huge topic. In the country, the businesses can resort to highly qualified, motivated apprentices, but in the city this looks quite different. That is why Mr Heinisch-Hosek was also given the opportunity to present her good ideas in Vienna. In Vienna, it looks like more than 80 percent of students attend higher schools, regardless of whether they are qualified or not. This is not a good way, nor for the importance of teaching. In so far as Austria is also a production site, we have to think about it; many federal states live on production. No economy would only work with service providers. We can't mow the lawn or advise each other. That is why we are called upon to go new ways, to strengthen the craft industry in Austria. [[Abg. Conspicuous: Add more apprentices!]] Above all, in an enlarged Europe, we are required to go new ways. I think this part of the discussion, which is now involved in a school package, is a facet. The fact is: We take this path of further development in the school system very, very forceful. My suggestion to you: Join us!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7135	Next item is the report by Mr Rada. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7156	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I too see positive approaches in the package of instruction which is coming to decision in just a few minutes, but only positive approaches because the logical, pedagogical, meaningful consequence was not ended, not to conclude how a social-democratic education policy would certainly have done so. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] I will also give you some examples of this. I very much welcome the school's becoming a five-day school in compulsory school. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] The logical consequence, however, is that a lot of teaching is being transferred to the afternoon area. But children need variety, and therefore the restricted form would have been the better form. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] I welcome the fact that students who have achieved AHS maturity in the primary school no longer have to be classified in the first performance group, but automatically come to the first performance group, AHS students are practically equivalent. I miss, however, that this does not apply for a whole school year as with the AHS students, but that can already be graduated during the first period of conversion. I welcome the administrative simplifications achieved, for example when attending school abroad, but I miss administrative simplification in other areas. In this context, I understand: We've been getting more and more private schools lately. – To be that way is also positive, I just wonder why we have received so many private schools in the last two, three years. Has the general compulsory school failed, Mrs. Minister? For these private schools, it would also be necessary to achieve administrative simplification. One does not believe that all of the reports from the schools, from the school supervisors, must be written by the individual authorities. Finally: If we want to implement all that this school law package includes, it is also necessary to have highly qualified teachers – we have them – in sufficient number. When I look at the ratio of the numbers – I have mentioned this several times here – for how many students are available a teacher's post, I have to say that we lack this qualified staff to a small extent. I am therefore surprised that, while President Neugebauer gives a high-quality, high-quality speech, at the same time, he underlines that these proportions are pupils: Teachers are sufficient. I hope that many of the teachers who belong to his faith group, who are already on vacation, have heard his speech today, because with these ratios, ladies and gentlemen, will we cannot achieve the quality of the school, as it is constantly sought and praised in solemn speeches. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Mrs Brinek said that many people feel that school is a hothouse rather than a place of learning. I mean, she has to say why. – Because there is far too little quality, because school organisation, teaching and learning content and teacher work are not adequately secured everywhere – and I claim that these ratios are due.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7240	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7262	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I propose the following amendment by Mr Werner Amon MBA, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Every Achleitner, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser, Herta Mikesch, Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on the legislative proposal in the report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template 975 of the Supplements: School law package 2005 (1044 of the supplements), one. The application is based on its scope in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG already distributed. I would like to explain the request in its core points. The changes are intended to create more flexibility in the appointment of the chairmen and ensure a rapid and non-fractional process of organisational preparation of the examinations in the context of the recognised courses of adult education institutions. This amendment continues to regulate the recognition of the master's examinations in the field of professional maturity examinations. Thus, at federal and law level, we will continue to live up to the slogan “Careers with Teaching”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7314	Mr Steindl! I confirm that the application was submitted in writing and already in advance in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure have been duplicated and distributed. It is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. In addition, I might add that Mr Dieter Brosz has also been mentioned in the title of this amendment. That's to clarify, because I heard there were irritations here. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7440	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7462	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I do not understand the jubilee on the part of the government parties about this school package. They rejoice that Saturday is school-free in the future. – Almost in all schools this is already the case. They rejoice that now it is no longer “life exercises” that are said, but “moving and sport”. – One might rejoice at that, for at least there is the word “move in it. ” In schools, it is no longer possible to make sufficient movement. They rejoice that five teachers' hours can be used for afternoon care. – This too was possible so far, only the implementing laws were not really suitable to implement it. In particular, they celebrate a massive extra burden on the communities. – May I tell you what that means by the example of my community, Schwerberg? We have had long afternoon care, and this costs the community 1 000 € per child each year. We have 15 to 18 students in this afternoon care, which means 15 000 to 18 000 € per year. Not yet taken into account is the social phase, which is very important, ladies and gentlemen. We can set up the best afternoon care – if parents cannot afford it because of the falling income, then all of this is for nothing. But these are the ones who urgently need afternoon care for their children, because they have to go to work in order to be able to afford a somewhat acceptable standard of living. In addition, all those communities that had these institutions before, these five teachers-hours, according to the motto: That's right! I can't get it now. This, Mrs Federal Minister, is a serious injustice to those who have thought about this subject before. A second consideration: A third of the Austrian municipalities cannot compensate their households. – How do you want to ensure that afternoon care is offered in these communities, if at the same time the necessary money is not made available for it, dear Mrs Federal Minister? To go to the inn to eat and then complete the care unit on a farm, such models will not be possible if we talk about a high quality and educational care of our children. If you think that this could be made pervasive to communities, then I see it more expensive. It is certain that when a child comes from one community to another, there is also the contribution to be made – point one – and to that – second – the transport costs. They shorten the care time because you can take the children around a little bit, but that's not the solution either. Furthermore, this law does not provide for the exchange between communities, as is the case with the host school contributions. Unfortunately, this is not regulated. What surprises me very much – this is now a question, or do I address all the church representatives with it: The city government has triggered a consultation mechanism because it is simply a duck that an upper instance decides something that a lower instance has to pay. The Federal Government decides to pay the municipalities. The municipal government has triggered this mechanism, the municipal government has withdrawn from the consultation mechanism. If I remember the strong words of President Mödlhammer at the church day, then I must say, I am already very disappointed. Who represents the municipality? Ladies and gentlemen! Parents and students who, due to the circumstances described by me, cannot have afternoon care in the future can not rejoice. The communities can't cheer up either. However, I still hope – and therefore I join in this bill with a gnawing of teeth – that through this decision movement will come into this consideration and that the municipal finances will also play a role in future considerations.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7528	Next item is Mrs Wolfmayr's speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7549	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 2 minutes are certainly too little to present some of the excellent Styrian success models on day care and professional maturity testing, but I'm still trying to do it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] First: Our study on day schools and so-called restricted models – but I prefer to talk about cooperation and partnerships between schools and various flexible afternoon offers – has already been mentioned positively in the Committee by Mr Niederwieser. Thank you! This study is really groundbreaking. On the one hand, it demonstrates the importance of new school models in a changed professional landscape, on the other hand, many already practised opportunities of individual day care are presented in the school, taking into account local and regional needs and specificities. There is already a very good cooperation between schools and communities and working cooperation between teachers and parents. I do not understand at all the criticism of the involvement of local gastronomy. As a second point, I call the daymothers of the Austrian organization Hilfwerk, who have been working for many years, who are excellent in day care and in learning assistance, early promotion and teaching education. From this point on, a great praise to this organization! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A most recent Styrian project on the compatibility of work and family is “family at work”, another module of the “KINDERLEBEN” action, which has been systematically set up by the head of state Waltraud Klasnic for years. Our dedicated young country councillor Kristina Edlinger-Ploder, herself has two children, proves here that restricted and creative new forms of education policy are feasible – a way to the future for many families. Nevertheless, it must always and necessarily remain in the free choice, the free choice for full-day care. This is very, very important to us from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I conclude my remarks with a final example of success, namely the promotion of the profession. In this regard, we were greatly praised by the government representative Blum in the committee. The Styrian qualification and employment programme has an educational check for professional maturity examination. This means that the level of funding is 100 percent of the cost. These are successful models from Styria. Head of State Waltraud Klasnic has long shown us how to make policy in the field of family, education, children and education! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7614	Next item is the report by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7637	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! With this school package I, our Minister of Education for Education (ÖVP) presents a number of important changes in the Austrian school system. I will focus very briefly on the particularity and the particular situation of the small schools. By the way: It is precisely the small schools that have cut off very well in the PISA study. The least will know: The best region in Europe is South Tyrol. And South Tyrol has by far most of the small schools. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the preservation of these small schools is particularly valuable for us. But there are, I believe, other political groups that do not think well with rural areas. I should therefore like to remind you that, with the financial compensation law adopted in December 2005 to 2008, we have also provided €12 million for teachers, in particular in small and medium-sized schools. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For Carinthia, this is just over €800 000; they have to be used for purpose. Too bad that just today, on the last day of school, around 15 small schools in Carinthia probably close their doors forever. We of the ÖVP are determined against this procedure, because without school many villages, many markets do not have a good future. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's why you're blocking it!]] – This is exactly what your friends of SPÖ, Mr Puswald, are doing in Carinthia, with the partners of the BZÖ. A particularly important aspect is also day care – I can also do this very briefly – which is also possible across schools. It is also possible – and this is already true – to violate the target number of 15 students. Therefore, no fear, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Faul: Who says that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You spread fear!]] So we can also pay for the aliquota contribution – yes, that is possible, read the law very carefully! Many do not know, Mr President, how creative the people who can be people in rural areas can be when it comes to the afternoon care of children. It is also very important to me that the motion for a resolution on the maximum number of students reaches, and in this context I refer to Fritz Neugebauer's comments. Let me conclude by saying: All in all, the ÖVP once again shows that it is taking responsibility for the future of this country and has done a lot in recent months. Let us give our children, our teachers a nice holiday, everyone else a relaxing holiday, not least far away from politics – and in autumn we continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7707	Next item is the report by Mr Radler. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7728	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can only join my previous speaker: It is the biggest reform of the last three decades in school policy, which is now in place with this school package I. At the end of this discussion, I would like to address a disparity of today's debate between the federal, state and local authorities. In particular, the social-democratic community representatives or speakers pointed out the burden on the communities. The country of Lower Austria has proved in recent weeks, with its 10 points comprehensive educational reform package, that this package secures the school locations in our federal state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Every school child in Lower Austria, who is at this age, will be able to complete the folk school in his home community in the next few years. The country of Lower Austria will also build a very slim structure: The 21 district school councils are replaced by 5 educational regions. But back to the communities. In today's debate, it shows the double density: At this hour, too, in Burgenlander Landtag, there will be a debate on this, and the Socialists are very strongly committed to it – the Social Democrats; very much so – to rescheduling the costs of the afternoon care once again to the Federation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Osaka]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: So much time must be!]] No, it is also the task of the congregations to be active here, given that – thank God! – very high female employment rate of 61 percent, given 160 000 single parents. That, I believe, is the social policy task, which is the answer that we as communities have to give to the social changes, namely to invest in the afternoon care. Every mayor is well advised not to build a street and to make the money available for the afternoon care – that was, I think, addressed by the honourable Members from Styria. The communities have a great responsibility and will also take care of it. This is a living social policy that has no color. – Congratulations on this school package!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7777	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we will vote on the 2005 draft law on school law package in 1044 of the supplements. Mr Amon, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner, Dr. Niederwieser, Mr Brosz, Mr President, tabled an amendment or amendment. Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has also tabled an amendment. There is also a request from Mr Brosz for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Brosz, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on Article 1(8). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The vote is now under Rule 1(8), as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and taking into account the amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner, Dr. Niederwieser, Brosz, colleagues. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution relating to the cost of the professional test, which is attached to the Committee's report 1044 of the Supplements as Appendix 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 125.) We shall also vote on the resolution on the review of behavioural agreements and educational resources for teachers annexed to the Committee's report 1044 of the Supplements to Appendix 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 126.) Now we are voting on the resolution on the implementation of high-quality day care in Appendix 3 to the Committee's report 1044 of the Supplements. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of doing so to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 127.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1046 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1047 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1049 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[12:43:21]] 5. Point Report and request of the Teaching Committee on the draft federal law amending the University Law 2002 (1045, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7930	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Broukal. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e7961	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Mag. Netzer! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Behind us are three exciting, many hours of negotiations with the scientists of the BZÖ and the ÖVP. I would like to thank you very much for this opportunity. We have really been in great depths, where there can be common ground and whether these commons are sufficient to make a joint decision. But I would like to stress the quality of the conversation and thank you for it. The European Court of Justice has ruled in its judgment published yesterday, in paragraph 66: It is noted that the Republic of Austria has not shown that without the restrictions on access to be decided by you today, ‘the stock of the Austrian education system in general and... in particular would be at risk’. In other words, the representatives of the Austrian Federal Government in this procedure were unable to clarify to the judges of the European Court of Justice that it was actually about the stock of the Austrian universities that it was about inadequacies when foreign students could attend the Austrian universities under the same conditions as Austrian Matura certificate holders. The European Court of Justice has also found that the Republic of Austria has limited itself to referring to medical problems, and it will say literally: ‘It should be noted that no estimate has been submitted to the Court of Justice regarding other subjects of study and that the Republic of Austria has granted no other figures in this respect.’ I believe that it was the exclusive concentration of Austrian representatives before the European Court of Justice on medical problems, which ultimately led to this negative statement for Austria. The Court itself points out that no figures were presented to it for other subjects. We, as opposition, naturally ask ourselves: Willingly, or didn't they have those numbers? Then: Now you want to decide from us or here in the National Council study-related restrictions far beyond the subject of medicine. They want access to studies for veterinary medicine, biology, pharmacology, communication science, education and business administration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Did I list one too much? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, too much! Education sciences!]] – Education science is gone again. I'm correcting myself: Communication Sciences and Journalism. Be like that. It is not a subject of study, namely human medicine, but it is seven to eight courses of study for which you want to introduce access restrictions today, because they fear that a strong addition of German students can also lead to uncontrollable sizes. If you know today, why didn't you do that in 2003 when the conditions at the universities were the same or, better said, a little better than today, before the ECJ? I do not belong to those who have Paranoia at work, but I think that some of them – and I do not mean you here in the House – with the universities mainly professionally, it is quite welcome to see that something they have never done in democratic dialogue in Austria – even because you never wanted it and always held back from it, namely an access restriction at the universities – now, as it were, according to the motto: [[Abg. May. Controller: That's it!]] Horch, what comes in from outside, just as from the moon and immeasurably comes upon us. I reject that – and I think that is not only against us, but also against you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] How should we proceed? – You and the rectors wanted us to agree that we say so to say: This is a national effort! I do not want to use the famous word ‘student’, which, by the way, is a Prussian military expression. But we can't do that, and I ask you to understand that. We have been telling you for years – and we have also stated this in requests that you regularly vote here – that universities need more money, that there must be an extension of the courses, that the universities need to be better financed. If you had agreed to this for years, there would have been a development, then today we would not have the dreaded catastrophe you are talking about. But since you have let us down for years in our demand to give the universities what they need – even the universities have failed!; I do not need to list the resolutions of the rectors' conference here, you know them yourself – today we do not see ourselves in a position to hang a fig leaf of inevitability around you, so to speak, by voting in favour, so that you can say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Wolfmayr]] There was nothing else left to us, see, even the SPÖ has agreed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8032	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Brinek. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8053	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I regret – in short – that it did not come to the four-party agreement, because there were serious, solid, committed efforts to reach a consensus, but just put a few things right. First: As a member of the European Union, we have been setting it up quite comfortably in an Austrian niche for more than ten years. [[Abg. Sburny: Why didn't you do anything?]] [[Abg. Broukal: That's the point!]] We have also established this niche and this Austrian preferred package with the UniStG 1997 under the Federal Minister of the Interior, in the knowledge that one day it has an expiry date. This expiry date has occurred. We have prepared...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8101	Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment. - I'll let the gallery clear. Take away the transparent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[The gallery will be cleared.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: These are the air bubbles of the SPÖ!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think you can continue. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8139	Thank you, Madam President. – I would like the students of Austria to learn to think European, to take note of European judgments and not to behave in this way – well, I leave the word behind. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... unEuropean?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (pointing to the bubbles) Have they been prepared in the SPÖ Club?]] [[Further calls.]] Well, it has come the end of the niche, it has come the end of the Austrian preference. We live in a European university area. We want Austrian maturants to move in the European Higher Education Area. We are therefore faced with new situations with yesterday's ECJ judgment. I would also like to reject the fact that the government or Parliament – the government's parties here in Parliament – did not react quickly enough. We have been on panel discussions, we have exchanged our views on media; we have had discussions with the rector, with the head of the rector, in which he has asked us, on behalf of the Austrian universities, rectors and university teachers, not to abandon the university with a new, unestimable situation. We believe that we have acted correctly, and today we have tabled an amendment which empowers universities to take very specific measures, and we also note in a resolution which my colleague Bleckmann will then present, that the Federal Government and Parliament here understand an evaluation, a documentation and the obligation to take measures in the event of certain unexpected changes. The amendment is intended to maintain open access to higher education – this is also the misunderstanding that is gladly collated for political purposes – and the university qualification regulation will also apply to foreign students in future, otherwise it would have been an Austrian disadvantage. This is limited to two years. This should be evaluated, monitored and controlled. The German NC study subjects should be affected by this without being allowed to introduce a numerus clausus in the country itself on the basis of the matura notes; that is also quite, very important! Before the decision, there is an involvement of the Senate and the University Council. And what's also important is: The number of students who have studied so far must not be lowered. This means that the Austrian Federal Government, the Parliament and the ÖVP are seriously developing the academic ratio. We have already formulated this so far in the discussion. Similar to the Lisbon objective, similar to the research target, the academic rate should also be formulated, of course, on the basis of at least the same, if not better, opportunities of the Austrians. I have allowed myself to point out, in the debt debate, the successive reform of matura qualifications. The evaluation steps will consider what further measures need to be taken, including with additional financial resources, in order to ensure quality at Austrian universities. I regret once again that it has not succeeded in adopting a four-party request. I believe that we have set a signal towards universities, not only towards students, but also towards university teachers, who are supposed to have ensured the completion and execution of a functioning study operation. If the opposition agrees, it will also agree with the support of universities and teachers at the university. [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is a fact that we take note of. Nevertheless, the dialogue has not been terminated, it continues. The current evaluation will, in any case, allow for measures before the end of the bi-annual period. Madam President. I would ask that the amendment be copied and distributed in full length. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8213	I declare that the amendment tabled by Mrs Bleckmann, Dr. Bleckmann, and Mrs Brinek, just tabled by Mrs Brinek, on the request of the Committee on Education, Training and Training, 1045 d.b. it has been explained in its cornerstones, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I have also already caused him to be in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8352	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8373	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I don't think we made it easy. And, Mrs Brinek, I really cannot fulfill your wish for the adoption of the Greens from university policy. What is it about today? – It’s actually about... [[Abg. May. Molterer: But that's easy!]] No, I'm not making it easy! – It is about no more and no less than free and open university access. It's a lot of people in the mouth now, but I'm wondering, What do the realities really look like? You know very well, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, that free and open access to higher education has already been questioned or undermined by scarce resources, not only in budgets, but also in areas and personnel, many times and de facto. The judgment... [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] That's right! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not at all!]] – The judgment of the EU Court of Justice has actually only made the situation worse and pointed out these shortcomings. If university rectors now want and demand from the government certain emergency action, I already have some understanding of this because it is emergency action. But these should not have been, one would have been talking in time and would have thought about alternatives in good time. I believe that if the result of the study site restrictions is now being purchased, I can say without a doubt: We do not need fewer students, but Austria needs more students! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What are the hard facts? – Only 31 percent of the Maturants come or can go to the university; Throughout the EU, it is 50 percent of all graduates. Over the last 40 years, university care conditions have clearly deteriorated. The number of students has quadrupled, and the number of teachers who care for them is not quite doubling – there is a sheer open. Public expenditure per capita of students fell by 60 percent, as measured by GDP. These are the hard facts that have many question marks in the open university! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The government, I say now, can't start – as some people like to – arguing with a surprise effect. There's no surprise! The problem of inequality has been set up twelve years ago, a procedure and a complaint has been under way for six years, and five months ago the Advocate General has clarified the EU position. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, eh!]] They're not surprises! And when did our negotiations begin? – On Tuesday this week, three days before the ECJ judgment was announced! If I still had to listen to me today: Three weeks ago we started the negotiations in the tramway when we went back from Badelt to Parliament, I say: Interestingly, tram calls already characterise the start of the negotiations! I don't believe in that. I am telling you – and I believe that every person blessed with reason will not contradict me here – that such a complex subject cannot be plagued by Parliament in four days; except I wish that “Ho ruck” and “Hush and Push” become the rule of our plenary session. I don't think we all want to. If Austria wants to remain a competitive educational country, we must also finance more and better places to study. I believe that this is not a question of ability, but primarily a question of will. And, please, you want to! – because you promise it to the people too. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Or the other alternative, however, would be not to carry open university access like a plaque before itself, but to say: No, we don't want that, that's not worth the money, and we don't want to burden the budget on these things! – But you lack the courage to speak that word, and I do not think that is all right. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Former rector Winckler said in his term of office: We needed 300 000 places to compete with Europe. That's 90 000 more than now. That is why I do not understand this trick of financing additive courses to a hundred percent, I say now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want this funding to be able to guarantee a better quality of study places, and we therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Grünewald and Mr Broukal, friends or comrades. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You never said anything about this in the negotiations!]] The National Council wants to decide: 1) The Federal Government is invited to ensure that in the short term Austrian students continue to have at least as many places as they have. The appropriate financial resources should be made available for this purpose. In addition, the aim must be to further expand the number of places of study. 2) The Federal Government is invited to open bilateral negotiations with the Federal Republic of Germany in order to achieve a cost participation in the training of German students in Austria. 3) The Federal Government is invited to hold appropriate discussions at European level in order to achieve a common long-term regime on the issue of cross-border student flows, especially in its financing. I am telling you that 20 000 doctors are missing in Germany at the moment! The annoncissaries in Austria, as Ireland announces, Great Britain and the Scandinavian states, and we already need to be able to talk about them in the EU. You should start with it! However, we also want to achieve socially acceptable solutions. I'm not doing this socially, but I may be aware of the following: If students have to pay their tuition fees and then be selected or reset in the truest sense of the word in a selective selection procedure, for various reasons, then they lose study grants, lose family support and go for a year, up to a new start and a new way to walk more or less! Can this be the responsibility of a good education policy? - I'm definitely saying: No, no, no, [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That means – and believe me, I'm not saying this as a lip confession: We want to cooperate. We want to enter into discussions with you. We want to work constructively on a sustainable and lasting solution with the rectors, with other parties, with the government – that is serious, and that is not a joke – but not starting for four days, so to speak, before the countdown and starting five before twelve! Nothing can come out. I think we should keep the scientific location and educational location of Austria high and make it more attractive. This is not the case with “Ho ruck”, but it takes the effort of all. If I could recognize this will, I'll tell you now: We will think with you about this and work constructively on better solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8507	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Greenewald, Mrs Broukal, Mrs Freundes is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8571	Next item is the report by Mrs Bleckmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8592	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Grünewald, no one has spoken of surprise, because all of us, as I believe, were aware that there will have to be several possibilities here, and that is exactly what has been worked on. But no one has prevented you from bringing in and proclaiming your attitude here and thinking about it in good time. Mr Broukal: It wasn't that big a thing, you said. They themselves know how far we have reached the coalition negotiations with the SPÖ and how much the agreement was: They were very, very big with you. [[Abg. Broukal: You conducted coalition negotiations with SPÖ? When?]] It is then failed in the final effect on the greens. We know you know that. You say on the part of the Green Group that you are the wishes of the students, the students so important that you wish these wishes to those of the entire university. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: They also wish for more places to study!]] So it is, you have to take note of that. And if it went to you, then it would go according to the principle – ÖH chairman of the University of Vienna Doris Gusenbauer, nomen est omen, but, I believe, does not belong to it relatively –: Foreign students welcome, cost it what it wants! After this system, go ahead. They say: All foreign students are welcome! That would be... [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's what the EU says!]] That's what the EU says? – Your representatives there say that. It's not the EU, it's the EU. Their representatives in the ÖH, at the university demand this and say that. That would also mean that we need to build at least three, four medical units for autumn, if it goes after what you want. [[Abg. Oils: But go!]] And that, please, is unfortunately not feasible and impossible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] That's why it's just that you do what's financially manageable and possible. I studied BWL! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But it is clear that this action must have been, soap bubbles must, of course, crush a little. Mr Niederweiser said it from the very beginning: We do not agree with this law anyway! I have the feeling that you all have made a policy of content to see what is at all possible and feasible. [[Abg. Oillinger: We? We stopped you?]] That's right. Excuse me. On the side of the SPÖ! It has been different on the part of the Greens: In the negotiations you said from the outset that there would be difficulties from your side. But I don't understand you either. They wanted everything, especially you from the Greens as a glowing advocate of the EU! They wanted to go to the EU, and this is one of the disadvantages of the EU that EU law applies to national law. [[Abg. Sburny: What is the disadvantage? They wanted...!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Even if this is a wish you would have, it is no longer possible to maintain the old law. That means a new law has to be made. We want free university access, that's one of the premise. Now it must be that there are restrictions on access to quality, but no numerus clausus as in Germany. I think this is also an important point: This must not and must not exist in Austria! We don't abandon the universities, that's another important point. We say that the universities should have a framework law in the area of their autonomy in order to be able to take measures now so that quality studies are possible. That was the wish on the part of the universities we live up to here. With this temporary scheme – which will then be evaluated and evaluated so that after two years you can see how it works and whether you need to change it – we also assume responsibility by saying: The university landscape is so important to us that we now react quickly and quickly! It was prepared, it is prepared and can therefore also be introduced today. We also say: It is important that negotiations take place at European level! That is why I am bringing forward the following motion for a resolution by Dr. Brinek and Dr. Bleckmann: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to hold appropriate discussions at European level in order to make Austria's particular situation more clearly aware of the issue of higher education access and to achieve greater consideration of Austria's concerns due to the linguistic proximity to Germany in the light of future regulatory mechanisms. The aim should be to achieve a common long-term regime on the issue of cross-border student flows, in which economic factors and impact on the education systems of each country are sufficiently taken into account and fair cost distribution is ensured." I think that is something you should very much agree with, because it is also one of your wishes. And I think that this would be an important step – which we are also going to achieve a balancing justice for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8718	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, tabled by Dr Bleckmann, Dr Bleckmann, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8786	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8810	In her speech, Dr. Bleckmann said that there had been coalition negotiations with SPÖ. - That's not true!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8834	Mrs. Gehrer, the Federal Minister, has spoken of the government bank. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e8856	Mr President. High house! I would first like to comment on some accusations that are being made again and again. Mrs Sburny said: You should have responded in good time – much too late, much too late! [[Abg. Sburny: Yes! What did you do?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have protected Austrian students for ten years. Would you like us to introduce these competitions ten years ago? [[Abg. Oils: You were in the government!]] Would you like that ten years ago? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] We have made a wide back ten years and have tried to give this advantage to Austrian students. What do you think negative about this? [[Abg. Sburny: It's been five months! For five months!]] We have at European level... [[New call of the abg. Sburny.]] I'm coming to the accusation number two. [[Further call of the Abg. Sburny.]] I should like to say one thing to you that one could have solved this in five months' time at European level, you have no idea how solutions can be achieved at European level, how difficult it is to achieve solutions with intergovernmental payments, how difficult it is to reach an agreement with Germany, where there are the individual states whose Ministers of Culture are responsible. [[Abg. Sburny: Did you at least try it?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There were, of course, discussions with the Minister responsible. However, this question cannot be dealt with by mutual payments between Germany and Austria, for it is a European question concerning 25 states. Ladies and gentlemen! The second allegation, which is always raised, is that the European Court of Justice did not have the right to argue. I would ask you to read through all the kilos of documents we sent out. I would also ask you to note that the European Court of Justice and the Advocate General have no economic significance. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's it!]] Economic arguments are not taken into account in the question of inequality. [[Abg. Neugebauer: You have to know that!]] It would be something else if we had the new European Constitution, because it says a pass that we also have to take into account the economic impact. Ladies and gentlemen! The universities in Austria have developed well. We have more students, more graduates. Through this court ruling, through this knowledge, it can be natural that there will be an inflow of German Numerus-clausus refugees. Those who now say: It does not come anyway, let everything as it is, I want to hear it when this inflow, which the others conjure, actually occurs! Then you will stand there and say: The government didn't do anything! The chaos broke out! It's terrible! Why didn't the government do anything? – That is why it is right and important to act now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In intensive discussions, public discussions, discussions at the rector's conference, this question was discussed intensively at various meetings. To demand from me that a law be passed on, in advance, so that some knowledge of the Court of Justice is answered in advance with a law, that is probably the desire for coffee study. [[Abg. Sburny: Who said that? You turn your words around!]] So we act when the knowledge is there, but we have prepared it well. The rectors' conference has drawn up a proposal in intensive discussions. The proposal reads as follows: For a period of two years, universities will be given the opportunity to make an admission procedure or an entry semester in the German Numerus-clausus subjects. The number of students must remain at the same level, there is an evaluation, and it is timely to discuss whether this law extends whether this law is terminated or something new is being made. Ladies and gentlemen! We have tried very, very hard to achieve a four-party request. We have formulated all your demands – two years of notice, interventions in Europe, an increase in the transition rate, an increase in the academic rate, more advice and information, evaluations into the law – and until yesterday I felt that it is also your desire to assume responsibility – to assume responsibility for the orderly course of study, to assume responsibility so that not every individual rector can be accused of private law. I have learned that you are only willing to take responsibility if your entire clientele, that is, if all your student associations agree. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Anyone who isn't your opinion is always the same responsible!]] That is not how I imagine responsible politics! We take responsibility for an orderly course of studies, we take responsibility for orderly reception. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You will also have to take responsibility for your policy!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: (in the direction of SPÖ) You will have to!]] We assume responsibility for the possibility, limited to two years, to conduct admission procedures or entry semesters in the Numerus-clausus subjects. We also have a responsibility for maintaining open access to higher education in all other areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9064	Next item is the report by Mr Dr Zinggl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9085	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! If German middle school students today have a threesome in geography, for example, they can no longer study some subjects in Germany, but in Austria. We now have exactly two ways to respond. One possibility is that we will continue to allow Austrians access as before. It's a little expensive, because then the Germans come in. The second way would be to gradually approach the Numerus clausus. This would mean that many doctors, who would have been quite talented and would have liked to do so, will not be able to practice this profession in the future. I do not want to know how many of those who operate today, draw teeth or work in pharmacies could not work where they work if we had already introduced early access restrictions. That is why I believe that this Austrian model, which gives young people the possibility of largely free access to higher education, should be transferred to Europe and should not make individual Numerus-claus models widen in Europe. This, ladies and gentlemen, of course, requires many discussions within Europe, but also bilaterally, especially with Germany. If you, ladies and gentlemen, put forward a motion for a resolution with the You are calling for discussions at European level, then I can only say: It's very late. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Too late!]] What you want from us now, that we should decide, is, in contrast, a reduction in the places of study of Austrians. This is quite clear and transparent, because we are supposed to leave the Austrian road, and so that nobody notices it, you are carrying out some sort of emergency operation. They are pushing the EU forward and now they have to do hush-fush, disappear somehow. Originally, it was that you made the patient get sick – and now with the emergency operation that may not go well, in fact, this free access to higher education should be disposed of quickly. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Broukal.]] You could have countered it in time. Ten years ago, you said yourself, you already came up with it, but after the first complaint or at the latest after the comment of the Advocate General a few weeks ago, you could have really been able to take up these conversations and ideas intensively, both with the Germans and with the parties. But you didn't. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is a Mickey Mouse show!]] Your argument, Mrs. Minister, that you can't draft laws, just because eventually anything could happen and that you couldn't, so to speak, develop a law in advance for every problem, is really not appropriate in this case. This also reminds me a little of Theodor Storm’s novel “The Mold Rider”, which you certainly know all in which a landkeeper does not do anything, although some signs and some people in the country who see these signs point out that the flood could break the dams every moment and that, accordingly, new dams and dikes should also be built. You know the story, you know how it goes. In that case, we have exactly the same result: You did not build dams in the face of this threatening flood. Now you see the great tsunami wave on the horizon and now you start with a few stones somehow a quick shot, a Hush-Push operation. I can only tell you that this law certainly brings something like a hidden Numerus clausus and that with this law, of course, the number of Austrians who want to have and study Matura will continue to decline. I don't think you can really agree. Our reasonable proposals for improvement would have guaranteed that the number of Austrians in the course of the study would continue to remain constant. This would, of course, result in an increase in the number of places of study, which would require additional financial resources. But that's the best investment in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9141	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9162	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The judgment of yesterday's ECJ was not unexpected, and we were not unprepared. We were not too late either, but we were timely and precise. In my three minutes' speaking time, I will not address the allegations of the opposition which can be very well resisted point by point. The Minister has already done this very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would rather talk about the why, the How and the future of our Austrian study landscape within the framework of the European Union. In view of that, as I believe, the opposition policy that we have heard and the one that I partly – apologise, Mr Zinggl! – a little mickey-mouse-like, disintegrate like the soap bubbles, which have previously been blown down by students from the visitor gallery. The ECJ considers that the funding of study places for students from other Member States is part of European solidarity. So we have to take consequences. Rector Winckler also said: The other countries will not now adopt our Austrian model. We're not an island! If the “Small Newspaper” said that freedom gets first cracks, then she added relativizingly that we were at least the only country that still had unlimited access to higher education. All countries have different systems, almost all European countries – 24 out of 25! – have long access restrictions. In the European context, no matter how we judge this, our model cannot be maintained. That is why we have taken action. We need to adapt and react to a changed situation. Until the restrictions in the seven German numerus-claus subjects, open access to higher education will continue to be maintained. No Numerus clausus is introduced. The first goal is to improve the framework conditions for our students. The Austrian universities, which are involved in European higher education, will certainly also be very well equipped with the changed conditions. They will even benefit them in order to profile and improve themselves, in the sense of the motto that Klubobmann Molterer mentioned yesterday, the motto of the ÖVP, namely: Act consistently, look away does not apply! In this sense, Minister Gehrer acted immediately, in a timely and efficient manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9210	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9232	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Zinggl from the Greens! This law is certainly not a quick shot or hush-fush action, but I think you probably haven't even read the law, otherwise you wouldn't have been able to make the statement that a reduction in the number of study places is envisaged. You only need to look at paragraph 2, where it is explicitly stated that in the respective studies at least as many students as before are to be able to study. So: First read and then criticize laws. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: It was about Austrian students!]] [[Abg. Broukal: But the foreigners are there, and that means less places for Austrians!]] It is clear, of course, that, on the basis of yesterday's ECJ knowledge, solutions must be sought for universities, but not solutions as they are now proposed by the Greens and SPÖs, so in the way: cost it what it wants. We need realistic solutions that can be expected for students, especially for Austrian students. One thing is quite clear: We do not want a Numerus clausus, because this is an injustice, and Germany has made very bad experiences with it. That is why this law provides a framework for the rectors who authorize them to develop solutions themselves, with semesters of study, and to look for concrete possibilities so that students can also have pleasant and necessary places for their studies. It is also important that, according to this bill, the current impact is to be observed, because it is intended to determine exactly how many people will actually come to Austria and which studies will in particular be affected by what one cannot predict today. And one thing is also important to me: Austria is the only country in Europe that does not have access restrictions in the course of medical studies, and that was clearly stated once again. It is of course possible for everyone to have access, and that a certain amount of service must be provided during the first exams in the course of a study, that is in the nature of the matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that during the negotiations, the opposition has really left the courage, and it is a kind of bird-strout policy that one no longer wants to take responsibility for the universities. In particular, under yesterday's asylum law, SPÖ probably left the courage to take part in constructive proposals by the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9297	Mr Van der Bellen has been mentioned as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9318	Ladies and gentlemen! German students were always welcome in Austria, and they are still welcome, but certainly not unilaterally at the expense and exclusively at the expense of Austrian students. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Col. Achleitner exhorts us to read the text of the law. Did you read it? You noticed what was in § 124b para. It's 2? I'll read it to you in case it's gone away from you: “When determining the number of students, it must be ensured that in the respective studies at least as many students as before are able to study.” [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: At least!]] “At least as many students as before”. This is the order to the respective rectorate. A rectorate who adheres to these provisions and says: Okay, so far we have had 1 000, we have 1 000 even after the arrival of German students. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: At least!]] They now have at least 1 000, and then they also have 1 000. And where are the colleagues from Germany now? They're zero, aren't they? [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't say that now how many that will be!]] You're counting on that! We all have to expect it to be more than zero. Of the 1 000, there are then just 900 Austrians – house number – and 100 Germans. Would you have been able to prevent that? Surely you could have prevented this if you would have wanted it! It must be clear to you that it costs more money. However, you have refused to do so. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Throughout the law, in this whole novel, in the explanations, in today's resolution of ÖVP and FPÖ – or as you just call yourself – is not a single word from an additional Austrian euro for universities. Shame on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9391	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law in 1045 of the supplements. Mr Bleckmann, Mrs Hizu have tabled an additional request. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law and the title and receipt. The rapporteurs Dr. Brinek, Dr Bleckmann, colleagues, have tabled an additional proposal which concerns the insertion of new paragraphs 2 and 3 as well as the resulting amendment to the numbering. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval for a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Greenewald, Mr Broukal, Mr Broukal, Mr De Clercq, on the safeguarding of study places for Austrian students. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bleckmann, Dr Bleckmann, colleagues on European student mobility. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 128.) [[13:30:55]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Citizens' Initiative (19/BI) on the quality of school in Austria's compulsory schools (1048 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9476	Now we come to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Brosz. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9504	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We fully support this citizens' initiative to ensure the quality of school in Austria's compulsory schools. Since you have written a report on the fact that all that has been proposed is actually unnecessary and does not need to be implemented, however, we will not agree to the Committee report because we thought there was a need for action. There are many points that were included in it, we have discussed this for a long time today: the question of individual support, the falling learning competence, the motivation, all this we share. I would like to come to a specific point where I thought that somehow you should think about your way of doing things in the committee and ask yourself if this makes any sense in the half of what you are doing. There was then a desire by us to check which costs would result in the reduction of the maximum number of students in compulsory schooling to 25. We did not request the Committee to reduce the maximum number of students to 25. We only wanted to have a review of the cost of this measure in compulsory school. However, they have rejected this request in the Committee. They shall reject an application with regard to disclosure of costs. What form of parliamentarianism do we have? The Minister then says in the answer: The compulsory schooling sector is none of my concern, because the implementation is in the hands of the countries. That you have all the data on all statistical surveys that you know, of course, does not matter to you. Obviously, it is not possible to learn from the government – we can hardly calculate it as an opposition – how much the costs would be if the high school-levels in compulsory school were reduced to 25. That is why we are also bringing forward this motion for a resolution. Listen carefully: It is not a concrete measure! [[Quoted print version removed]] It's three months now that the ministry would have time. By the way, I came to this question because last week I was at a panel discussion in Vorarlberg and there the competent ÖVP Council of State Stemer, in this discussion, said by itself that in Vorarlberg, it would cost € 6 to 7 million to reduce the schooling peaks in compulsory schooling to 25. I then thought that this is not really a particularly dramatic cost factor, because about 5 percent of compulsory students go to school in Vorarlberg. If I charge these 6 to 7 million and count that 20 times, then we're at 120 million €. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's nothing?]] Mr Molterer, if you look into the budget, you will find that from 2004 to 2006 you reduced the compulsory school budget by 100 million. In other words: If you had not given up this reduction in two years, we would now only have the maximum level of 25 compulsory school students by this measure, and this only by relinquishing the expenditure for compulsory school students. I'm just telling you financial compensation. I have not been particularly scared, and I would like to know now – if this is highly predictable with Vorarlberg, it may be that this is very different – which would cost the maximum number of students in compulsory school, because there, we believe, it is most urgent to reduce to 25. And we could, I believe, ask a Federal Minister to present this data to us, and then we can seriously discuss whether it is possible or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9573	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9598	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by saying that the citizens' initiative, which has dealt very comprehensively with issues of school quality and further development in the Austrian education system, is a very valuable contribution to the discussion on the school reforms, which we also take extremely seriously. This is also the reason why we agreed to make a hearing with the representatives of the citizens' initiative immediately after sending the Committee on Petitions to the Teaching Committee. That's what we did. In ongoing contact with the representatives of the citizens' initiative and the parents' associations at the Austrian compulsory schools, this has also been very positive. I have the impression that the representatives of the citizens' initiative have a much more realistic view of things than you, Mr Brosz, in what you give the best, because the representatives of the citizens' initiative have certainly made the impression and articulated this in the discussion that they are very happy at first that we have tabled a motion for a resolution with the aim of looking at exactly what is the maximum level of class students, because we have looked at it very carefully and also discussed it together. If you have about 50,000 school classes in Austria and are in fact more than 25 students in a not too large part of these school classes, then only with the reduction of the school's maximum numbers is this not enough, so we do not solve any problems yet. On the contrary: We automatically create additional costs in the form of opening costs of these classes, but the problem is sometimes not solved. That is why we also need to look at the division figures, because these are very important in this context. One has to look very closely at the opening figures, this is also relevant in this context, and one must of course also include the decline in the number of students in this whole process. That is why, I believe, we are very much in favour of our motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The parents have also agreed that wide areas of what is contained in this important citizens' initiative are actually included in the school packages presented, discussed and planned, because of course we are also concerned with improving and developing quality. [[Abg. Brosz: Which event were you at?]] It is about implementing early language promotion. A first step has been taken today with this school package. I've been talking about the number of students. It is a great concern for us to maintain small and micro-schools in rural areas, and this is also credible, because we have not exclusively focused on the requirements of the financial compensation, but the Minister of Education has succeeded in imposing additional € 12 million for small and micro-schools, which is pleasing and actually takes into account the demands of the citizens' initiative, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Last sentence: The preparation of the conversion of the educational academies to higher education institutions for pedagogical professions also takes account of the demand that says we want to have improved teacher training in the future. I thank all the initiators of this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9646	The next speaker was Mrs Mandak. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9668	Mr President. High house! 95,000 signatures and two thirds of all parent associations have signed this Citizens' Initiative, which means that there is a very strong weight behind it. Dieter Broszhat has already said that we naturally support these demands made by the Signatories. At the request in item 2 – to strengthen individual support – I am already wondering how this can be seen in the context of the statement made by Mr Fuhrmann on the morning, which asked itself, which is worse because 40,000 pupils have not achieved the learning goal in Austria this year and either have examinations or not. The parents could learn with them and prepare them for the checkup. We all looked very big and asked ourselves how you can think of it! You have to imagine this already: How many parents can help their children with examinations? How many can do that, and how many can't? The content is often too complicated, often parents do not have the corresponding schooling, or but they are active and therefore simply do not have the time to learn two or three hours each day with their children on holiday and so to speak to trim them to make the examination. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is the big difference between our and your ideas, how a well-functioning education system should look: We Greens would like this funding to take place in school, but do not want to burden the parents' responsibilities at home. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A detailed paper has been prepared by the compulsory school teachers' umbrella association. I would now be very interested, Mrs Minister – that is what we are talking about. The result of cuts in financial compensation is what you say about all these accusations. In fact, you have not said anything about this in the Committee. It is about the impact, like, to name only a few, that, for example, the number of students in classes has increased by up to 20 percent, that there is much less time available for individual funding, that there is no means for additional offers in relation to the promotion of interests and talent, that expenditure on supplementary education continues to rise, that the focus on integration and intercultural learning is heavily affected, that 10 percent of compulsory school places are at risk and so on. Mrs Bundesminister, please take a position on the points raised in this paper of compulsory school teachers! Tell us how you stand and what you will do so that such deteriorations can be overcome in the future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9737	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9758	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The citizens' initiative to ensure school quality in Austria gives us once again the opportunity to deal with the core problems of the Austrian school system and to point out that there is a great need for action. – At any rate, I have a different access than my colleague Amon, but this citizen initiative has shown quite clearly what are the main problems, which are the core problems in the Austrian school system. And one of these problems is, in any case, the massive cuts in education, reductions which have already been addressed several times here. In recent years alone, 8 percent of the educational budget has been saved! Now the share of the education budget in GDP is 2.36 percent; in 2000, it was still 2.63 percent. Thus, cuts have been made too, and in our opinion these cuts – and also the citizens' initiative – have a dramatic impact on the education system in Austria. Some of these effects have already been addressed. For example, the number of students in the class has increased by up to 20 percent, for which individual application per child is now half an hour less available. Further: The early warning system at the primary schools was drastically reduced and reduced and therefore also this high remedial costs. Latest estimates assume that €50 million per year will be spent in Austria – i.e. expenditure that will also burden people in Austria. At any rate, I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Mandak that not everyone can help and support his/her children in school tasks. Therefore, there has to be a different form of school. If we say that school has to happen in school, of course we also know that it is not possible to solve all the problems of the school system, but this would be a more important step – I would say almost: the most important – that there is equal opportunities for all children in Austria, so that it is no longer the case that the social origin of a child has an influence on the performance of a child. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I too am fully convinced that money alone does not guarantee quality education, but: A quality education must be worth something to us – and of course it also has its prize; this citizen initiative also speaks of it. In any case, it would be good if the colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ would take this citizens' initiative seriously, it would be two thirds of all parents' associations who signed this initiative. 95,000 signatures have been made for this! Therefore, once again: One must take this citizen initiative seriously, for the benefit of our children who are being trained in our schools. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to make the following suggestion to Mr Bleckmann in particular – she said this morning that this package, which we have decided today, is the first school package: If you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, take this citizens' initiative seriously and not only look at the education programme of the Social Democratic Party, but also take it seriously, then perhaps we can really decide on school packages – from me: two, three, four or five – which actually deserve the word “reform” so that something really happens for the benefit of our children in schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9822	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9843	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to my predecessor that we are taking this citizens' initiative very seriously. The Chairperson of the Teaching Committee, Werner Amon, invited representatives of the Citizens' Initiative to a detailed debate. You were there, too. There the views and opinions have been very detailed and broad, and we are very keen on all these questions. I would now like to make three more comments; first comment on the budget: Ladies and gentlemen, who says constantly and every day: It's all so bad, it's all been shortened!, just talk about the truth, because that's not true! We have more students, about 40 000 more, in the secondary schools. We have more teachers, exactly 2 229 German teachers, in the secondary schools. We have dramatically increased the budget for this area: In 1995, it was €481 billion; now, in 2005, it is €5.95, that is, almost €6 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who constantly claim that everything is constantly saved sick simply don't say the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second comment on the funding hours: Mrs Mandak's account has been drawn up this morning, which is, if I remember quite well, that a student is being cared for for for for for about 17 minutes. – I don’t know how you expected it; I would like to do this with you. In any case: We have a total of 1.5 million funding hours to 50 minutes in the field of primary school, primary school, in the lower level of the gymnasium. These schools are home to 800 000 students. If you calculate this exactly, you will find a student 94 minutes. And you are not going to say, Mrs Mandak, that 800 000 pupils are interested in need hours?- Oh, my God! – Experience has shown that 15 percent of funding hours, i.e. if I calculate this correctly, come to a student’s funding options of 12 hours and 25 minutes per year. This is offered in groups, so that in five groups over 30 weeks, double hours are possible in which students can be promoted. The 1.5 million grants cover compulsory schooling, are already available. To the funding area, there are numerous posts for the special school and integration sectors, numerous teachers' posts for children staying in a hospital, and we have also agreed €12 million with the countries. So we have numerous resources to promote, both for talented students and for those who are more difficult to learn. I have issued a new grant permit so that funding hours are used properly and target-orientedly. Therefore, help us with the implementation! Third comment on the number of students: The number of students is on average relatively low in Austria, both in international comparison and in national average calculations. But it's right: There are tips there and there. We want to avoid such a thing, but it's not just like saying: Class school numbers down! – There are division numbers, there are initial numbers, there is the explosive division, there is a large area to consider. It's not true either that we didn't do anything there! – We have set up pilot projects in Lower Austria, in which we give the opportunity to release the division numbers, the initial numbers, the splits practically so that you can get to lower school numbers. – We are now monitoring this, and this model could then be extended to all of Austria. We will therefore work very intensively, including this resolution, to reduce the maximum number of students.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9919	As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9941	Mr President. Minister! High house! On the part of the citizens' initiatives, we have heard a lot of speech in the Committee. A picture has remained with me that you have given us as a cartoon. There's a teacher sitting and saying, To make it right, you all get the same task; the elephant, the monkey, the bird, the fish in the water glass, the seal and the cat – you all get the same task, namely: Climb on the tree! The conclusion is that not all children should get the same, but every child the matching. These were now only six “class children ” so to speak, and they also needed all individual care. That which we would all wish for, namely, that each child really gets the right thing, but would result in we no longer have 25 children in one class, but unfortunately we only hold three to five children, so that each child really gets his own teacher in order to get the best possible support. I would also like this for my child, I honestly say to you, but this is not possible at the moment, because it is not financially It's feasible. We should probably spend the entire budget only on this area. What is already being done by the Federal Government has already been listed. There is already individual support. There is already a lot to be done in the field of early promotion; we have already talked about this in the morning. There are also non-covered integration and German courses. The expansion of individual support is very much being forced, especially in the integration classes. There are also 12 million in financial compensation, 1.5 million funding hours in primary and secondary schools. The government knows that there is a need for action here, and much is being done. Of course, we would all wish for more, and it is clear that the opposition here is increasingly demanding more than is feasible, but we are doing what is feasible.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e9980	The next speaker was Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10001	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! For us as ÖVP, the development of quality assurance in schools is a priority objective. We are constantly trying to address and implement the guidance and demands of parents, educators and pupils, and so does this citizens' initiative. In recent years, our Federal Government has done a lot to meet the requirements of time in the school sector. As early as 1995, the “School in Movement” project was launched, which has three points on its content: On the one hand, this is the autonomy, the way from the central administration to autonomous design. These include: Free space in the curriculum, design space also in the hoursboard, school autonomous days, a school autonomous school budget, cooperation with businesses, modern teaching and learning methods and much more. Secondly, this is part of the quality offensive. This includes the behavioural agreements, the profile formation and the focus of schools and many others. Of course, this requires a stable framework, and in this sense everything is done. Due to the financial compensation, € 12 million are available in addition, as are other 400 teachers. We've already heard: There are 1.5 million funding hours in primary and secondary schools, and that is not little. A key factor is also to be seen in teacher education and further education. This is €66.23 million. In order to cope with the changed situation of the present day, not only do educators need to know about the last state of knowledge, they should also address young people sensitively, promote them individually and demand the strong. This is happening at present, and I believe that quality also has to do with the people involved, primarily with the teachers who guarantee the guarantee of school quality in Austria. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10039	The next speaker was Mrs Fleckl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10062	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Of course, it is very positive that this citizens' initiative to ensure the quality of school at Austrian compulsory schools is being discussed here in plenary today. Of course, like my predecessors, I would like to thank those people who have made it possible by their commitment that this citizens' initiative is here in the House today, namely the umbrella association for compulsory schoolchildren' associations, first of all, the chairman, Mr Kurt Nekula. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ, the Greens and the ÖVP.]] They have brought us very much closer to the issue in the Committee, and of course we from SPÖ support this citizens' initiative item on point. Mr Amon, it is not enough to make just a few points. I believe that the overall package can really lead to an improvement in the school system in Austria. Extraordinary situations now require exceptional measures, and this citizens' initiative is an extraordinary measure. 90 000 parents in Austria have supported this citizens' initiative because they are concerned about Austria's school system. Many negative points in Austria's school system have already been cited. I would also like to mention some of the following: 10 percent of compulsory schooling sites are at risk of closure, restrictions on the compulsory training of teachers, no funds for additional offers of interest and gift promotion. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: Not at all true!]] These are points that really cause concern, and I understand those parents who have done their signature here. Mrs. Federal Minister, perhaps a word in personal matters. My child got his witness today, and I congratulate him here, of course, from this point of view. [[Abg. Auer: We too!]] [[Congratulations on Members of all political groups.]] Thank you, Mr Auer. Minister! I have fully experienced the ten years of your term in compulsory school with my child. I'm sorry I have to say it, but I wish the Taferl classics a better school system in autumn, and with this opinion I'm not alone. After all, about 50 percent of Austrian parents of children in compulsory school are of this opinion. I recommend, Madam Minister, the SPÖ training programme in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10122	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10143	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Fleckl, thank God is not too much of the SPÖ in the education system, and that is good for the Austrian children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Individualisation and quality management, these two concepts seem to be most important for parents in terms of ensuring school quality. What does this mean for teachers? And what does that mean for the students? By individualization I understand the promotion of special needs and gifts as well as the freedom of choice. For one thing, as for the other, you will only find advocates in our party. We have done a lot about this in recent years. In the area of integration, the same has been said in recent years. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his I understand the suggestions of the parent initiative as an impulse to meet the needs of children again and again. In the field of quality management, I would particularly like to highlight the initiative for the preservation of small and medium-sized schools. Especially the children of compulsory school age must not become commuters who spend more time in transport than on the playground. Here too, I can assure you that our Minister of Education Elisabeth Gehrerround, for example, our head of state Dr. Josef Pühringer, will prevent such a hunger of the rural area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Quality does not depend on the size of the school, but above all on the willingness of teachers and parents to be a valuable support for children at all ages. But one thing is clear: Our schools do excellent work!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10201	The next speaker was Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10222	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would think of something in your place if so many parents and parent associations reached one of the last means, namely to set up a citizens' initiative to show that in our school system everything is not the way some coalition speakers wanted it to be today all morning. [[Abg. Sheermair: This is not a “last resort ”!]] I understand the fear of the parent associations. I don't want to strain PISA anymore, but it's still the fact that for more and more children only one teacher is available. It is the fact that more and more additional offers are being saved. It is the fact that, if funding lessons are also offered, they can only be offered to a lesser extent. It is the fact that the musical offers are going back. It is the fact that sports offers are going back, and it is the fact that foreign language intensities are going back. If the parent associations call for the reduction of schooling numbers, I have to say: Such a reduction is absolutely necessary! Even though there has already been so much talk about individualization today, how should we look after the children in the primary school as much as they need? There are children who come to school and can already read and write perfectly. And we have others who have special needs and can't do all of this. Therefore, we can solve this only in smaller groups and not in classes with maximum numbers of 30 and more students. Mrs. Federal Minister, you are putting out the pilot project Niederösterreich with the educational region as excellent. I'm already telling you what's in this paper if you don't know it: The basic level one will remain in the places – that is the first and second class folk school – the third and fourth classes will be transported through the area. So if you say that the small schools are going to be preserved, that's just wrong. In conclusion: If we are talking about the quality of the school, we must also seriously break our heads about whether it makes sense for the people to continue to maintain this somewhat worrying model of repetition.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10260	As the next speaker, Mrs Schiesermair is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10281	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I think it is worth noting how many of the things the parents want have already been implemented or are currently in implementation. I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for this. I also like the fact that there are so many dedicated parents, groups, even so many people who are thinking about many areas of our education. If I look closely at the citizens' initiative, I have to say: There are many points in it, such as the individual promotion of interests, of children with gifts and weaknesses that have already been put in place. Today we have heard of the reading promotion programs, of the 7,700 teachers who are working to promote students. We've heard of these 1.5 million hours of funding. As regards securing small school locations: Many previous speakers have already mentioned the €12 million involved in the financial compensation. And with regard to the reduction of the maximum number of students, we have taken the necessary steps with today's motion for a resolution. I think there are still a lot of points, but I might want to address one more point. Education is now in motion. The new school package meets the many requirements that have been set. What claims? – The claim of various review mechanisms, the demands of the new working situations in families through the 5-day week, the right of choice and decision-making, the right of networking in rural areas, the claim that meets our independent and responsible educators, and the right to exercise the right to communicate values and to set up hearts. I would like to thank all those who have been constructively involved in and involved in this development process. I now wish the students, teachers and teachers a relaxing and deserved holiday. And one thing I wish to do is to deal responsibly with these measures, which have already already been implemented and partly implemented, because this positive development must not be a loser because of the party glasses.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10318	As the next speaker, Mr Ddr. Decliner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10340	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As soon as possible, the citizens' initiative on the one hand and the motion for a resolution on the other. There is, of course, still much to be done, because the motion for a resolution on which we are talking only includes the establishment of a working group, with the task of reviewing the proposal of the Committee on the Future, Autonomy Reduction, central rules for class and group sizes, so not even implementing it, but only reviewing it once. This is, as it were, the direct response to the citizens' initiative, and of course that would not be much. But that's what everybody here is aware of. Therefore, a piece of work must be done. The Federal Minister has announced a number of such packages, and we expect them to become more difficult packages in the future. If we discuss education policy and criticize something, then we do not criticize the work of teachers or the work of children – not at all – but very specifically the education policy. These are different things that keep confusing you. Of all the points, Mrs Bundesminister, which are included in the citizens' initiative, one is particularly important to me, and I would like to conclude by saying that: To enable integration in accordance with requirements. As one of the next steps, you will have the common education of children with and without disabilities over the 8. To continue in the school level. We discussed at the time: Should it only be at polytechnic schools, or can it not be the middle-schools? You can decide this alone with your majority in the future. Nevertheless, I appeal that we find a wider solution here very quickly and that you should be in this opening for children with disabilities over the 8th century. School level not only involves polytechnic schools, but also at least middle-schools, so that it becomes an appropriate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10388	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1048 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. (E 129.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, fellow Members, on the submission of a report on the cost of reducing the number of students to 25 in compulsory education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – It is the minority. Rejected. [[14:08:37]] 7. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (995 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Strategic Audit in the Transport Sector (SP-V Act) (1002 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 554/A (E) by Mr Mag. Dr Magda Bleckmann, Fritz Grillitsch, colleagues on the transfer of the B 317 between Scheifling and Klagenfurt to the area of competence of ASFINAG (1003 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 482/A (E) by Mr Heinz Gradwelt, Members of Parliament on the acquisition of the B 317 section of the Perchauer saddle in the area of competence of the ASFINAG and its four-track extension (1004 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10473	On points 7 to 9 of the agenda, the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10501	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State – thank you for your presence! The fact that you once again represent the Minister is already the norm and not the exception. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you are always excited that the State Secretary has nothing to do with it!]] – Yes, this is in the Constitution, but it is also a certain political signal when Mr Gorbach appears at the highest level at the time of Question Time in Parliament, when Vice-Cancectors sit occasionally on the government bank, but otherwise in the committee shines by absence, in the special debates by absence, and probably spends his time abroad or tries to set up the management of the BZÖ – I do not know. [[Abg. Scheibner: You always say the State Secretary is not doing anything!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Lentsch: Where's the Van der Bellen?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Mrs Colleague, do you have something to say on the subject?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The State Secretary is responsible for this area!]] It is phenomenologically easy to understand what I have now presented to you. Let us now go to the individual points: Ladies and gentlemen! Now, at the end of three days of parliamentary debate, we are talking about the transport sector. You all know, Mr Miedl, that you are also of the same opinion, that the transport sector is our biggest safety problem, and together we constantly try to stand up for greater road safety. [[Abg. May. Control: Yes, let's do it!]] Transport is the biggest health problem. I do not need to tell you: the accident damage, the ozone exposure, the fine dust load, the noise pollution et cetera – serious damage occurs there! [[Abg. Neudeck: HIV!]] The transport sector also covers a large part of the environmental problem: Land consumption, biodiversity and these things – I do not repeat here again the fine dust et cetera. And: In the transport sector, we are moving enormous amounts of money: 8 billion in the framework of investment programmes, road and rail combined! – Please consider how much the pension grant in the ASVG area is: less! Remember what you spend on schools: less a year! Remember, too, what you spend on universities: a pickle of what's going on in the transport sector! We have always systematically debated this essential political area, this essential area of action and design, at the end of plenary agendas. I think this is a false weighting of this very, very critically important area, for a completely wrong one! . Today we are thanks to God not so late in time, but it is the last block of agenda items, Mr Cot! [[Abg. May. Control: at 2 p.m.?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Eder: It's always too late!]] [[Abg. May. Controller: Oh that!]] This was an important introduction for me now, because the concrete point we are taking today is the implementation of an EU directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain plans and programmes. We should finally put more emphasis on forward planning in transport policy and place more emphasis on the forward-looking consideration of consequences. What is now to be decided here is implementation, but implementation is far too late, and implementation that does not even include the term “environment”. There is no “environment” in the title – we should implement an environmental directive! I mean, that shows clearly what attitude is often used in the field of transport policy. – This is one of my main criticism points just ahead. The second main criticism: In itself, the implementation of the EU Directive should be uniform throughout the country. What are we doing? – In part, it has to be implemented by national law only again in the countries. The implementation of this EU-level planning environment directive should then be carried out across sectors. What's going to be done with us? – It is implemented in the waste management sector, it is implemented in the water sector and now also in the transport sector. As a Bonmot for the implementation of the transport sector, I can still read to you a question from Mr Pröll. I have addressed to him the question of how the strategic environmental impact assessment in the transport sector now looks. And he could now answer me at the end of June 2005 – the deadline for implementation was 21. July 2004 –: He held several talks after coordination sessions and so on with representatives of BMVIT. ‘Three such meetings took place (...). In addition, two letters were received to the then Secretary-General of BMVIT.’ And: In a further letter to the Secretary-General of the BMVIT in 2004, ‘My Directory’ – that is the environment resort – offered technical support for implementation.... The BMVIT was therefore comprehensive and early” and thus further involved in the process. What's the success? - We're a year late! This is the disinterest in transport in environmental areas, in environmental measures and in the lack of interest in transport, and apparently also in the transport sector, especially under this Vice-Cancellorium, in fact already having plans for an environmental impact assessment – because what we now have in terms of ideas and proposals is again reduced to a small advance of project-related EIAs. I would like to mention once again our general criticisms: First: The legal anchorage of the general transport plan is missing. If we now want to implement the EU directive, which relates to planning, then we need practically an overall plan that can be subjected to this examination. Otherwise, we can save ourselves anyway. Otherwise, as usual, we make the normal project-related EIAs and save us the entire bureaucratic, complex reporting area, because this one has only one sense if there is additional quality. And there would be additional quality if, in advance, a strategic review had already been undertaken in the planning and programmes. But if you do not anchor the general traffic plan as a law, he cannot even be subject to the SUP, so it is not possible to adopt this forward-looking instrument at all. That's the perversion in your approach! Other criticisms: In the environmental impact assessment as you propose, airports are excluded. There is no obligation to take account of the environmental report in planning decisions. - Then what about the whole thing? This is only an additional effort imposed by the EU, which remains without substance! We do not have any transitional provisions for recording the network changes that have occurred after 21. ==References== Implementation has practically not been properly implemented with regard to the deadline. The NGOs are not involved, the environmental prosecutors are not involved – it has not been chosen the way to give them a party position. We also have virtually no involvement of the communities. The mayors are not involved – we are missing that too. Furthermore, the environmental report is practically produced by the project operator – and not by an independent civil service. These are really blatant mistakes, where you make the bock a gardener again! And overall, we have no concrete monitoring measures and additions to the legal remedies. We're missing that too. I am sorry that work as a whole has been used for a matter that does not bring any additional quality gains under the rule of Austrian implementation and unfortunately does not lead to any positive effects of any kind for us in terms of transport policy. Our rejection is therefore clearly argued. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10668	Mr Miedl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10689	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is Friday, 14.15 p.m., an important item on the agenda, and it is not at the end of the plenary session, but in the middle. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: We know the clock – despite PISA!]] Mrs Moser, it seems to me that the Greens would have been excluded from the presidential conference! The agenda has been made together. You know, of course you can always play one against the other. As transport spokesperson of the ÖVP, I am very satisfied with the arrangement of the agenda items. I think we have a very attentive audience, although to the extent it has become a bit shaker. [[Abg. Eder-Schütter!]] But this is in a field, Mr Eder. That's what we have to live with. Mrs Moser, I did not understand your contribution – we have already debated it in committee –: It's exactly the other way round! The strategic review is precisely because we have to implement the EU directive and avoid the second misplanning. We want to avoid misinvestment because that's exactly what you've analyzed. But that's exactly why it's done! And, of course, in the case that alternatives would be more appropriate, we also need to examine whether alternatives are better, while at least ensuring the efficiency and fulfilment of the purpose of transport. So I do not fully understand your criticism here, because strategic planning itself is a bit basic. And we have also agreed in this meeting in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that the countries concerned will be entrusted with this task. We have just said that we do not want to delay this investigation on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day, but we want to know that quickly so that the cost-effectiveness of such projects does not suffer, and we have set a maximum time limit of four weeks for this strategic review. The fact that existing laws, Mrs Moser, cannot be rolled up once again, like the General Traffic Plan, is perfectly clear to me, because we will then start from the beginning. But any network edge extension would be to carry out such a strategic test. I personally welcome the law, because it really has to involve all environmental, social and all transport practices. And I think it's a modern law. I would like to thank Mr Kukacka, who also gave us the necessary information at the Committee meeting. And I am very glad, Mr State Secretary, that you are always available to us in a very competent manner in the committee, but also here in the plenary session, as Minister of State, so to speak, as the Secretary of State. [[Abg. Eder: He's always there, yeah!]] [[Abg. Eder: Right!]] Thank you very much for that! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree more than with this law, which we have to adopt today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10766	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10787	Mr President. Mr. “Fachminister”! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't say this cynically, but I say it very consciously, because I have to hold on to it pretty slowly: If someone doesn't want to be a politician, but he wants to make a private career, he's supposed to do it! In Question Time, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Transport were asked whether it was true that he had already had pre-contracted contracts with a cable car company, Klaus. He didn't even really fight that. He just kind of talked around. – I think this is unbearable that the Minister of Transport is not here in the house! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A politician with expiry date is suboptimal. – This is not from me, but Mr Klubobmann Scheibner has recorded it. And I have a few more things to say here today, because it just belongs: I have never experienced a Federal Minister who has been so little in parliamentary committees, or especially in transport committees! I looked at this once: In this legislative period, we had twelve meetings in the Transport Committee. At seven meetings the Minister for Transport was not present, although I know how long all these dates had been agreed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The last Transport Committee meeting, which the Minister of Transport visited personally, was held on 12 February. March – but not 2005, but 2004! That means he was no longer in the Transport Committee for almost a year and a half. [[Abg. Gaál: This is an insult to Parliament!]] Does he have any interest in transport policy at all? This goes seamlessly with what my previous speaker, Mr Moser, said: We are moving billions – and Members do not even have the opportunity to have proper discussions with their Minister of Transport in Parliament in a committee! This is simply unbearable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: He needs a few more State Secretarys!]] The last time, 22nd. June, everything was agreed: Whoever did not come was the Minister of Transport! Why didn't he come? – Because the mobile mast tax was introduced in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Wheelers: A very good thing!]] That's where he had to make himself important. He just invited all five mobile operators and talked importantly. He just forgot to talk to a bowl. If he had spoken to a bowl, he would have saved the meeting, for he would never have settled with Mr Pröll in Lower Austria. So we don't need to talk about it: The session was unnecessary. The Transport Committee is alone “day food”. No, that's actually wrong: He is not alone in eating, because of course the Minister has his representatives. [[Abg. Oillinger: (in the direction of the Freeman) Submit a few State Secretarys!]] One is sitting here today, and I have to say that Mr Kukacka from ÖVP-Sicht has really put his political opinion in the committee! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] But the Minister was not there, so we did not hear his opinion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is, I am actually very glad that we have at least a competent man here on the government bank, who is still at our disposal at all. [[Abg. Oellinger: (pointing to the ranks of the Freedom Parliament Club) There no one is sitting there at all of the liberals!]] Mr. Federal Minister... – I wanted to say if he had been sitting here. He simply neglects his constitutional obligations to Parliament. It's not even the BZÖ at all at all – that's apparently already in resolution. [[Assured by Mr Puswald.]] But it seems important in his office that you employ beauty queens, misses. Now he's been bragging about how I recently picked up a newspaper that he's set a male model as a press speaker. [[Abg. Rädler: But that's deep now! It's very deep!]] No, that's not very deep, but I hope they're all competent – I don't put anything here either. But what really matters in a ministry? [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes, that would be important!]] Is it only more important for beautiful people – or is it also a matter of competent people? – It is a strange situation that I see here. [[Abg. May. Controls: Beautiful people can be good too!]] The debt explodes in the ASFINAG. There's nothing talking about it at all. The law we're here about today, he knows, I don't think, at all. The Secretary of State has made an effort in the Committee to inform us accordingly. I can only follow the remarks made by my previous speaker, Mrs Moser: It is on and on itself a law that goes absolutely in the wrong direction. That is why we will not agree to this law either. Then I read yesterday in the “Kurier”: “Confusiond drivers. ” In Carinthia, Upper Austria and the Burgenland one does not know at all how to deal with the prefaces. If a child is sitting in the car and the people are on holiday and the child is not adequately secured, the car must be stopped. Can't they go on holiday any more? Are they punished, not punished, presupposed? - No one knows. We asked the authorities: In these three federal states, we do not know how to deal with it at all. So “super” - prepare things here! It is significant how policies are made and worked in this area. [[Abg. Gaál: The Minister has been taken out of traffic!]] We definitely reject such a carefree policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e10978	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11028	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Eder, if your only contribution to transport policy for Austria is to make the Vice-Cancellor and Federal Minister bad, then I must say: [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: It's not bad, it's bad!]] Your contribution to Austrian transport policy is very thin and very thin! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: More and more than the contribution of the Minister of Transport!]] Mrs Moser, you mentioned that the environment is not a transport issue. I would just like to draw your attention to noise protection, which is being financed more than ever before, especially in the case of new road constructions. And also in the current bill, the strategic review will again take more action for the environment and create opportunities to take into account the impact on the environment. There are several points in this strategic review: that, if the transport routes are so appropriate, even cross-border studies of environmental impacts are considered, that an environmental report is drawn up and – I think much more important – that the environmental authorities of the countries and also the public are included. That is why your statement is incorrect if you say that no private or non-NGOs are included, because the environmental report is presented on the homepage, and of course, any comments can be made at any time. Another important point, which I think is very positive for general transport policy, is that when planning new transport networks, alternatives are also examined to consider: Is it necessary or is it correct if there is already a road there to build a rail?, and vice versa. These are strategic considerations that are very important and particularly important for the construction of the infrastructure. And through these strategic tests... – Yes, the general traffic plan is once a decided thing. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser:... General traffic plan!]] But right now, before new plans are made, this strategic review is to be carried out to make misplannings – and expensive misplannings! – to avoid, and in order to be able to identify risks earlier in order to be able to discuss problems from the outset and to address and say any extensions of a road network: No, it doesn't make sense, or you'd rather do track instead of road. Just this tool is possible with this strategic test. As has been said, more emphasis is placed on the environment in particular. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that this strategic review makes it possible for forward-looking solutions and that we also have the opportunity to take greater account of the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11100	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11121	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! I cannot follow at all the euphemistic statements of Mr Achleitner, whom I very much appreciate. It is very difficult to understand this when one of ten objectives to comply with transport plans is dedicated to environmental protection, to the environment. For example, there is no specific mention of the international agreements on the protection of the environment, as required in the Kyoto Protocol or in the Transport Protocol to the often quoted Alpine Convention. There is no reference to this at all. The new general traffic plan you're so happy to quote is obviously a secret document, because we've never seen it before. We don't even know how he looks, because you can only get him through any secret paths. This is not a legal text. Mr Miedl said that this is a legislative text, but that is not true. The general transport plan is not known to us, Mr President. [[Abg. May. Controller: He's not decided either!]] In the light of the late implementation of a directive, this euphoria is not really comprehensible here either. If it is so important to this government, why is it going to carry out this directive late? Apart from this, overall assessment of the transport network in the sense of environmentally relevant solutions is not at all recognizable. I also have to say that this week, in the EU Parliament, it was rejected to carry out a strategic environmental review of all road planning in the European area. In this context, billions are used or partially heated without an overall view of a whole concept! – As said: There's no togetherness. The information obligations of the Federal Ministry are perceived in such a way that the relevant information is sometimes placed on the homepage, which is not really user-friendly and user-friendly. There is also a special obligation to provide information to NGOs. Fortunately, the NGOs work better than the Ministry of Transport and often already have information before the Ministry has it. So they are not really dependent on what is not necessarily a reputation that can be pointed out. The assessment of the compatibility of the transport plan with the regional planning plans of the countries and the technical planning acts of the offices of the state governments does not take place at all. This is also a special manko, because so much work is done side by side and is not coordinated together. Overall, our assessment is very bad, so we cannot accept this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11165	Mr Grillitsch has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11186	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we are voting on two motions today, namely the Member of Mrs Bleckmann and myself – also a special feature for this House! . but also on Mr Gradwelt's request [[Complaints with representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals who seem to refer to the speaker's promise.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] The two applications differ not only with regard to the applicant but also in the way in which one makes policy. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's right, but that doesn't speak for you!]] Our request, so to speak, the government proposal, is the holistic request, the request of Mr Gradwelt, on the other hand, is from the Kirchturm perspective, because he only wants to take up the scaffolding line over the Perchauer saddle, which would lead to unfavorable gaps from Scheifling to Klagenfurt and give rise to additional noise problems, new market could not be bypassed and, and, and. That's a perspective I really can't understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Our request is practically holistic, namely to build up or pass through to Klagenfurt with a huge amount of investment. [[Abg. Marizzi: And until Rome!]] Of course! The link to the south is also a very important one, Mr Marizzi, not only in the east, but also in the south! I am therefore very glad that we are voting on this request, and I believe that it is a matter of course for this House and for those who think in a holistic way that they will agree to the first request, because this region needs that! The Styria – and this region in particular – has had problems recently following socialist destruction work in terms of jobs, but now there is life again in this region! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: But Klasnic belongs to the ÖVP and not to the SPÖ! Klasnic is the destroyer of jobs!]] „Spielberg-Neu“, Semmeringstraßentunnel, Semmeringtunnel-Bahn, Therme in Fohnsdorf: Waltraud Klasnic and Hermann Schützenhofer made the request in the Styrian state government yesterday. I would add now: in agreement with Mr Voves, we also need to promote the thermal spa in Fohnsdorf. In Pöls there was a €250 million investment, and now this important infrastructure is being implemented thanks to an ÖVP-led state government in Styria. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Not long, thank God!]] Mr Puswald, I tell you: Becoming as Long as You don't drive to Vienna, how the Styria will be black, I guarantee you! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pepper: I believed the Styria is green!]] They change too often, not just the Perchauer saddle! That is why we will see who will sit here next time and who will continue to work in Styria as the head of state! In this sense, I would ask you to agree to our first request, because it is both the more holistic and the more sustainable to ensure that the Oberes Murtal economic location is properly secured.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11302	Mr Gradwelt has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11338	Mr President. Mr Minister of State with the profession of State Secretary! High house! Mr Grillitsch, it is funny, but your statement of how long the Styria will be black is definitely not sustainable because you have become red in this statement! That's why I think she wasn't very serious! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Bleckmann is actually my witness: We have already negotiated a joint request last year. However, from February last year until November last year, it was not possible to achieve this with the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] ==References====External links== In November of the previous year, a request covering exactly what is necessary. I can explain this a little more: Based on the decision-making of the general traffic plan – not of the new, but of the predecessor – ASFINAG has taken over the route from Jüdenburg to Scheifling as a high-quality federal road and plans the extension of Jüdenburg to Scheifling at the beginning of 2007, and this road is expected to be finished in 2009. [[Abg. May. Controller: Thank God!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Thank you!]] Mr President, I should like to thank After Scheifling in the direction South, however, there is only one state road B, and this is still the case with a coniferous tube over the Perchauer saddle. After that, it goes a little better in Carinthia Dürnstein and Friesach continue until Klagenfurt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner, the Styrian Landtag decided unanimously last year: The Federal Government is asked to take this item into the general transport plan and thus into the high-level road network. Mr Grillitsch, you know very well: Two of your country colleagues from Murau or Jüdenburg have released a canonade of broadcasts in recent years, with which they bombarded the Transport Councillor Leopold Schöggl on one hand, may he at last become active once, and on the other hand also have sent letters of prayer to all Members, also to you. – Alone: It was not possible until last year or this year in May... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Yes, but you have made a request and you have not taken into account that the road from Friesach to Klagenfurt is not yet the decision of the Carinthian Landtag. We will therefore have to wait even longer until the Carinthian Landtag has agreed to transfer this roadway to the high-level federal road network. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You have influence, Heinz!]] That means in the clear text: The more extensive proposal is similar to transport policy, dear Fritz Grillitsch, as it has been operated by the Styrian ÖVP for the Upper Styria for decades. ‘V’ stands for preventing, emboldening and, in particular, extending for deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of this request by Mr Bleckmann and Mr Grillitsch, because it is really about achieving something for the people. Only: With a little... [[Abg. Scheibner: The Family Merge!]] That too, Mr Scheibner! We are really open because in this area, my colleague Grillitsch, we no longer bear that we have a needle tube in Scheifling and that this route is used as an escape route for toll refugees in heavy traffic. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Heinz, you're great!]] Dear Fritz Grillitsch, now I don't understand the world at all! In the Transport Committee, your spokesperson Miedl accused me that noise protection measures are not what we should discuss here. You're gonna get that back into conversation! Agree on this! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Then the ÖVP is really so disputed! How can such a party still rule?]] Until you agree, the ASFINAG is hopefully so far that it can start planning! If it goes after you, after the ÖVP transport policy and after the support for the Obersteiermark by Mrs. Klasnic, we will soon be able to ride the wheel, but on no road.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11474	As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11496	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear colleague Gradwelt, welcome to the family or to the family proposal! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I'm glad you're going there, because I think that's a good common thing we want for the Upper Steermark. We would have liked to have you there from the very beginning, but there were certain “pasts. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Here too, however, the following applies: All right, all right! It is important that we now have a joint proposal to improve the Upper Styria, especially in the area of B 317 on the Perchauer saddle. I think that if this is taken over by the ASFINAG and will then be in federal competence, we do not need colleagues Schöggl in the family anymore. Then we don't depend on the country, but then you can take it actively on the part of the federal government and then we have to do it together. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That is why Mr Vice-Chancellor Gorbach is to submit an application to the Council of Ministers!]] I mean, we don't even have to make a request there. We will together see that we are coming to this improvement for the Upper Steermark and that your address will also be taken into account. I believe that we can do this together after we have also achieved this together. – I wish the Styria a “good luck”!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11542	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11564	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now returning to the strategic review in the transport sector, which, as has already been said, serves to implement an EU directive. The concept of this Directive is very reasonable: At the earliest possible stage, it is tried to check whether environmental compatibility and social compatibility have been achieved and whether the interests of neighbouring people have been taken into account, so that a confrontation with appropriate problems can be avoided at a time when it is too late. Unfortunately, however, the law is too short: It is not appropriate to really implement these thoughts, because too small-sized is thought. It would be necessary to look at entire corridors and check what has failed: Rail or road. So it would be necessary to really think in alternatives and large-scale. I am right to Mr Rest-Hinterseer that it would have been useful if it had been decided in the European Union that the European networks could be reviewed in these respects at all. A problem has already been raised here, namely that of the general transport plan: It would be useful if there were at last a legally binding general transport plan, which is also really adapted and realistic and could then be used as a basis for the reviews. So there are too many shortcomings here, and that is why we cannot accept this law, because it is not a real implementation of the directive.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11606	Mr Glaser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11627	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I believe that the Greens have confused or misinterpreted the word ‘strategic’: “Strategic examination” means that it is about how to deal with one thing, and not how this matter is then assessed in detail. I personally believe that this strategic review in the transport sector is a major improvement in transport planning because, on the one hand, it includes public opinion on the environmental report and allows the environmental lawyer of the countries to give an opinion, and on the other, there is also a cross-carriage examination of these projects, which has not yet been done. I believe that this cooperation between different modes of transport is a major improvement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to point out that the environmental report cannot be a substitute for environmental impact assessment, and that is why this environmental report is also prepared by the planning firm, the initiators, and not independent of the country. It is also essential, as I believe, that we really involve the public in this strategic review. By including the public, we inform the public, and I believe that only an informed citizen is ultimately also a citizen who can choose competently. A competent citizen will decide correctly because he is not uninformed and is therefore suspicious. That is why I believe that this strategic review is a major step forward in transport planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11661	The next speaker was Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11682	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing the strategic audit in the transport sector, with which Austria implements EU standards, in concrete terms the guidelines for the line 2001/42/EC on the assessment of environmental impacts of certain plans and programmes. The main aim of this law is to create a strategic planning instrument for the federal transport network. In concrete terms, the effects of planned changes will be examined and alternatives examined. - That's the good intention. However, the closer consideration of the law shows that the Federal Law on the Strategic Examination of Transport in the present form does not meet the requirements of the EU Directive. Why, is it explained relatively quickly: Also, the best strategy would not occur if one disregards important principles and does not communicate with partners. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the main requirements of the Directive is to take into account aspects of plans and programmes as early as possible, i.e. already in the pre-arranged planning phase. The Directive covers all plans and programmes drawn up by authorities at national, regional and local level. The advantage of this broad approach is that, with consistent implementation of necessary infrastructure projects, there are significantly better start-up conditions and higher acceptance in the population, in concrete terms through a holistic view, through cross-carriage testing of alternatives, by taking environmental and economic aspects into account and in the last consequence also through transparent planning. - So far, so good. How has the directive been designed in Austria? – The strategic audit law only limits the audit to network changes in the nationally high-level transport network, i.e. high-performance routes, federal roads and waterways. However, there is no examination of the general transport plan, which some previous speakers have already criticized. Furthermore, the bill has rigid weaknesses in the overarching strategic review of the so-called cross-road planning, as all experts have noted. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, it seems to us more than questionable whether the strategic examination will also be able to fulfil the expectations set in it. Therefore, we note: The path chosen by the government to the implementation of EU targets is half-hearted and impotent. Therefore, we will not agree to this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11727	Mr Haubner has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11749	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! The concept is reasonable and means progress in transport planning; we have already heard that. My colleagues have already stated that the approach chosen to include environmental aspects not in isolation in the consideration, but to look at them integrated into a strategic review, has our full support. This bill ensures that, in the framework of the strategic review, a balanced balance must be made between the consideration of environmental aspects and the importance of infrastructure projects for the population, economic development and locational needs. As a result of this law, I expect above all to have positive effects. By showing alternatives, misconceptions are eliminated in good time. In summary, I would like to say: The strategic review gives positive impetus to efficient resolution and optimization of approval procedures also with a view to planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11781	The next speaker was Mrs Fleckl. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11802	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! – As usual, Mr Vice-Chancellor is not present, he may not be so interested in transport issues. - High house! The two requests made by Mr Bleckmann and Mr Gradwelt reflect the current transport policy not only in Styria and the Federal Government. It is unfortunate and embarrassing, because at the moment the transport policy of the Federal Government, like the responsible in the Styrian state government, is called: no own ideas, copy, prevent, and ultimately adorn themselves with foreign feathers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Heinz's application cannot be embarrassing!]] Mr Gradwelt's request describes the situation of the border region, and this proves that Mr Gradwelt knows this region very well. To call a detailed request such as this as “Church Tower” as Mr Grillitsch has done is certainly very unfortunate, since this region wants nothing more for its economic situation than finally to get a reasonable transport link and a corresponding transport solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I myself also come from a district that has been waiting for a long-standing road project. But all Mr. Vice-Chancellor does is propose PPP models to create countless studies that cost hundreds of thousands of euros – but nothing happens! The human beings are scattered sand into the eyes, and hopes are awakened that are ultimately not fulfilled. It was unfortunate that you could not agree to the SPÖ's request in the committee, because I think he would be the more sensible one of the two proposals in place. The only mistake he seems to have from your point of view is that he comes from the SPÖ. I would like to see a better transport policy for Styria, but it is likely that this will only happen if a head of state Voves is at the forefront and implements the Power Plan in Styria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11849	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11870	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to interfere in the regional policy of Styria, but from the point of view of the Carinthians, it is very important that we develop this section from Dürnstein to Jüdenburg as a preferred highway. I can tell you, Mr Heinz Gradwelt, that it is also in the interest of the federal government to make a highway. It is tourism policy, it is important for the transport policy and it is right that this gap is finally implemented, since This is a historically important transport link, a connection between the Alpine-Adria region and the Danube region. I myself drive this route almost weekly and know that it is currently a death route. In January of this year I lost a highly valued host-college, which unfortunately failed on this route. That is why I am personally concerned that this gap will be closed as soon as possible. We in Carinthia have fulfilled the conditions for this: It is built from Friesach to Klagenfurt a highway or a motorway from St. Veit to Klagenfurt. Thus, this route from Vienna to Italy can be used as a freeway and a real alternative to the current North-South connection via Graz.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11910	Mr Winkler spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11931	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too can refer to a route which we, Mr Klaus Auer, and also colleagues from the Carinthian Oberland, must repeatedly use. Over the years, we have had to find that this route is becoming increasingly frequent, not least because of the fact that Semmering is detonating and this route has become a corresponding distance. This North-South connection, however, also means an economic impulse for the Carinthian and the Styrian part of this area. For me as a Member of the Carinthian, therefore, our motion for a resolution, with which a further transfer will take place in the near future, is of particular importance and can therefore be expected to force the necessary extension between Scheifling and Klagenfurt. I am pleased that you, Mr Heinz Gradwelt, will agree to our motion for a resolution, because I too – without wishing to criticize it – am convinced that your motion for a resolution goes a little too far. The route between Klagenfurt and Scheifling must be seen as a whole. And if the Carinthian Landtag has not yet created the conditions, I may, from here on, address the appeal to the Carinthian Members and to the Carinthian Government to make this possible as soon as possible. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] In any case, this is a more frequent route, where accidents occur over and over again, which is why a corresponding extension is a command of the hour. But I must not mention that this route is a reference model. This means that the experience gained for the first time with this eco-strategic transport test will have an impact on the further application of the strategic transport test. In this way I hope that in the future, special attention will be paid to this route so that we can travel on a safer route than those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e11977	The next speaker was Mr Schweisgut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12001	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Very briefly: It has already been said a lot, but I certainly make the opposition a joy when I say that this strategic test in the transport sector is a qualitative quantum leap. All alternatives will be examined. So far, net strategic decisions have actually been made out of the belly. Now it is mandatory and necessary in a balanced way to take account of economic, environmental and social aspects. Strategic planning is therefore a law that is to be welcomed, which is not aligned with individual projects that are not regionally specific, a law that does not fall back on existing, not already approved, but is important for the future. This is an optimization in the sense of the environment, in the sense of economics. For this reason, this bill should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12034	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12052	Mr President. High house! I would like to take a very brief look at the criticism of the opposition to the prevention of Mr Vice-Chancellor and point out that this criticism is unjustified, because, ladies and gentlemen, you know as well as I do that the State Secretary has been appointed a parliamentary representative of the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Gradwelt: But too late! Too late, Secretary of State!]] And if Mr Vice-Chancellor takes advantage of this constitutional possibility, I would of course like to do so. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] I really do not understand what to criticise about this procedure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] In short, on the objections of the opposition to the law on a strategic audit in the transport sector: Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to point out that this law not only provides for an examination of the environmental impacts of new plans, but also provides for a fundamental, cross-border alternative assessment. What plans and programmes are there to review, ladies and gentlemen? – All that is legally developed by the authorities in transport plans and programmes, i.e. draft regulations on planned or existing railway routes, draft legislation on the declaration of water to waterways, draft legislation on the declaration or termination of road trains to federal roads. That is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen. The purpose of these tests is not to examine individual projects, but to present the whole network or network changes accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore really a correct and politically reasonable implementation of this EU directive, and there is no useful and sensible alternative to that! Finally, I would like to say to the two requests for the transfer of the B 317 between Scheifling and Klagenfurt that the inclusion of this B 317 road line in the Federal Road Law also requires a strategic review. However, we assume that the review can be concluded in such a timely manner that the inclusion of the B 317 into the federal road network is expected to take place in 2005. [[Abg. Grill: (in the direction of Abg. Now, did you hear that? That was the holistic request! Yours... not...!]] There is also a corresponding expansion concept, namely the creation of a suitable highway, which can be expanded in sub-sections and for which appropriate funding is ensured. The request is therefore strongly supported by the Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12130	Mr Zweytick is now speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12151	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This strategic audit in the transport sector – the Secretary of State has just explained it and I gather it together again – concerns the essential networks in our federal state: these are the high-performance routes, these are the waterways and these are the federal roads. And perhaps to remind you again: This strategic review is about avoiding misplanning and misfinancing as well as avoiding alternatives. This four-week period is about economic efficiency, but it is also about involving interest in people. We are also implementing an EU directive, and it benefits the country, the population and transport safety. In Austria, road and rail are going a lot further, both with regard to the road safety of the participants as well as in the environment, as for example the many noise protection walls that are being built. Efforts are bigger than ever. I am therefore grateful to our Federal Government, Transport Minister and State Secretary Helmut Kukacka. [[Call the SPÖ – towards ÖVP –:Applause!]] On the example of Styria alone: There Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic was able to prepare and move great things. The Semmering base tunnel-new, the coral railway including tunnels or the two-track extension Graz-Spielfeld with the merger Koper/Adria are only three of several highlights. This is Styrian Power made by Klasnic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Demonstrative applause and calls at the SPÖ – Members who donate to the applause –:Bravo!]] It's about implementation. It is not just about any plans that are always being announced here, but about facts, it is about implementation. Mrs Fleckl! Leave the church in the village and agree to the request on the Perchauer saddle. It would be a great service to the population in the south of Austria. A free ticket to Scheiflinger Kirtag would be safe for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12212	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on SP-V legislation, including title and receipt in 1002 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this bill at third reading, I ask for a sign. . At the third reading, approval will also be given by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1003 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this resolution, I ask for a sign. . The resolution welcomes the unanimous approval of the House. (E 130.) Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its 1004 report of the supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[15:05:52]] 10. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 649/A by Mr Klaus Wittauer, Mr Werner Miedl, Members of Parliament on a Federal Act establishing the German Federal Law of 6 June 1990. It was amended on 1 July 1960, with the adoption of rules on the police (Street Traffic Regulations 1960 – StVO 1960) (1005 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12297	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. [[Deputies Mag. Prammer, Mag. Molterer, Öllinger and other Members of Parliament are in front of the first row of seats and talk to each other.]] Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I ask Members to open up the view of the House. This also concerns second presidents, club members, deputy club members. [[Abg. May. Prammer goes to her seat.]] Mr Oellinger! [[Abg. Oillinger also goes to his place.]] – Can we create a room climate? [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, but a pleasant one!]] Ask the rulers to take place – and Lord stupidly not to turn our backs on us! - No, I'll wait until it's quiet in plenary. [[Abg. Scheibner: (behind his place) Can you no longer stand?]] [[Call the Freeman: Sit!]] Mrs Mag. Hakl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12379	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I should like to make the following request at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] After reading this amendment, I should like to focus briefly on what we are changing here in the road transport regulations. We all know from Germany the overhead road traffic impact systems, which have already been built in our federal territory, for example in Tyrol. However, in the past, the legal basis for making such a traffic impact really possible when it is not known in advance or at local level. With this new provision, it is now possible to provide speed limits for a higher flow of traffic in the case of congestion, which is very important for road safety. The amendment, on the other hand, allows only those measures which are actually appropriate for transport fluids and thus for road safety, while the original proposal provided for measures which appear appropriate to achieve the objectives. It seemed too vague to us. We really want such a traffic impact to be achieved only if it is necessary, and I am very glad that the legal basis has been created.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12446	Mrs Mag. Amendment tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner, Miedl, Fauland, Mag. Mr Hakl, colleagues on the request of Mr Wittauer, Mr Miedl on a federal law with which the Federal Law of 6 December 1989 was adopted. July 1960, with the provisions on: the police are being issued (road transport regulations 1960), is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Binder. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12475	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Transport impact systems provide more information for all road users, above all. Due to the dynamic traffic information, traffic events are regulated in particular at traffic-loaded, accident-related or stagnant sections: for example, by speed harmonisation, wide-range accident and congestion warnings, dynamic traffic management on rerouting routes, warning of fog, smoothness or by blocking individual roadways, such as with ghost drivers, or the possibility of signaling lanes that there are construction sites or an accident has occurred. In Austria about 800 of these information bridges are built across motorways. This expansion is expected to be completed by 2008. The objective of these systems is above all to increase road safety, to reduce accidents by up to 35 percent and to increase the efficiency of the traffic flow by up to 15 percent. I think it is a sensible measure, because with these flexible ads it is possible to influence the entire transport situation specifically. The start of the so-called intelligent road is in Tyrol, as Mr Hakl has already mentioned, and full commissioning is expected by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen! From the perspective that road traffic will increase by 40 percent by 2015 and on the high-level network by 30 percent, I think this type of traffic management and steering is absolutely necessary. But these figures and data are most urgent to point out how important and urgent the shift from road to rail is. The Minister has been asked to make intensive arrangements in this regard. The last point relating to transport telecommunication on Austria's roads: Some sections of the line on Austria's motorways have been built so-called section control facilities. The aim is to ensure absolute compliance with and control of speed limits. It is not satisfactory for me and for us that only about 20 percent of the violations recorded by the hundred percent can be persecuted. 80 percent cannot be punished for legal reasons, and I think that does not correspond to our sense of justice. Mr Minister, Secretary of State! I think there's a need for action. Coming to the end: My group will vote in favour of this proposal, in the sense of greater efficiency on the road, but above all with a view to improving road safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12516	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12537	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am very glad that, in the sense of road safety, the opposition is also included in this case, because I think, especially the traffic-related data, which are being collected, and the measures that then take place on the ground and ad hoc Another and a good contribution to road safety is possible. Another point is that capacity on the roads can also be increased by these transport facilities, which will lead to less congestion and more time, which will also result in a certain amount of money savings. We have already heard that traffic accidents can be drastically reduced: If these traffic impacts can reduce the number of seriously injured by up to 30 percent and can generally be avoided by more than 35 percent of road accidents, I think this is a very good measure to increase road safety. Therefore, the present bill is important, but it creates the legal basis for these transport facilities. Transport impact systems will surely bring us closer to the goal of halving the total number of road fatalities on the Austrian road network by the year 2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12576	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. Four minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12598	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have agreed in the Committee on this measure to the establishment of transport safety-enhancing installations, namely, installations for the control of traffic, in a kind of advance performance of confidence. I now receive an amendment which contains the wording that, taking account of road safety, these measures are being adopted. In the Committee, we had a text in which it stated quite clearly: Increase transport safety. – Several previous speakers have talked about increasing road safety, but the current text of the vote says “regard”. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the context: Mr Vice-Chancellor – I am not saying any more transport ministers – has a dream. This bubbling dream means: Release of Tempo 160. By means of such traffic-influenced systems, permission may be signalled that speed 160 may be driven. This space of Mr Vice-Chancellor has been exposed as very risky and as a result of various studies. And now there's a change in the StVO. I wonder at all why we did not decide this at the last meeting in which we discussed a general reform of the StMOs. Why do we need to improve now? There aren't two or three months gone by. And this change is now beginning to lead to a drop in the increase in road safety to take account of the same. Of course, lawyers can develop different meaning horizons, only: I believe that “enhancement” is a fixed definition expression, and “respection” is a relatively soft formulation. That is why, contrary to my approval of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I cannot give my assent to this amendment in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12643	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12666	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we very much regret this if you cannot agree. I believe that it is, and in itself, a very important legislative matter, which we decide here today, even if it is a minor change in the road traffic regulations. In the future, it will in any event be possible to establish transport arrangements for certain road and transport conditions. This will give road users more safety, greater legal certainty and, above all, more protection and more safety against road transport risks. Today's traffic impact systems are technically mature and are able to react automatically to the various transport conditions. Of course, it will be necessary to quickly install these facilities, especially on highways and motorways. They have fulfilled their meaning when only a human life can be saved with it. As legislators, we thus fulfil the most important of all our duties. Transport impact systems are capable of reacting automatically and dynamically to different transport conditions in order to keep traffic liquid, to prevent or delay congestion and, in addition to road safety, a very important contribution to reducing environmental pollution. We know very well that congestion is a significant environmental burden – with the transport impact system it is possible to reduce this environmental burden very significantly. The establishment of transport-influenced facilities is very well placed in all other transport safety measures put in place by the Federal Government to prevent road fatalities or to lift road safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12704	Next speaker: Mr Marizzi. He wants to talk for 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12725	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Binder has already talked about the accidents, so I want to focus on the traffic jam. According to VCÖ, we have about 1 billion traffic hours in Austria, which are 100 hours per driver. Total costs are enormous: $6.4 billion. The currently very high fuel prices represent a large proportion of them. This matter is a consensual matter – we like to agree with it, but a little more differentiated. It is important to be careful that the car driver does not pay twice for all the traffic control systems – and at least in the next time the €300 million will be invested in these traffic control systems. Of course, our Austrian companies such as Siemens and Kapsch will be happy if they can build these systems, but the driver has already very intelligent systems in the car today, and there he pays twice. That's why we should be careful here. In addition, the ASFINAG, I believe, has very high debts, and that is why we have to deal very carefully with this matter. We like to talk about the “intelligent road” – we also agree with this important project – but how does it actually look on the “intelligent road”? You just need to look at the South motorway. Mr. State Secretary, you must have the article on Thursday, 23. June, read: ‘Defected concrete road producing high waves’. - It's almost like a test track. 1.4 billion were invested in the South motorway, and everyone who travels from Carinthia or Styria to Vienna has to cross a toboggan run! I can't imagine – it's about Austria's biggest knot – that you're going back to the agenda! One speaks of an “intelligent road” and knows that around Vienna the largest unintelligent traffic jam is created! And now the whole thing has to be repaired. Mr State Secretary, I would ask you to seek consequences. Because when the “Kronen Zeitung” writes: A week before the opening of Push discovered – the new South motorway breaks again!, then it cannot be a reputation for an “intelligent road”. – But we still agree with today’s law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12764	Next speaker: Mr Fauland. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12786	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! With the introduction of traffic control systems, we are also taking a step towards the future, one step towards the regulation of mobility requirements that will follow us in future. In the future, we may be able to fly freight from road to rail, but in times of European enlargement, in times of the increased mobility needs of the population, we will not succeed in reducing individual road transport. And that is why it is all the more necessary to ensure a smooth and smooth process. The first step has been to send a positive signal here, but also to increase road safety. Just think of the problem of a traffic jam: An accident has occurred somewhere, but people are driving at the same speeds to this accident site – a traffic jam is created that is 10, 20 kilometres long. With such a traffic influence system you can reduce the pace in advance and thus achieve a better flow. And – that is said in the direction of the Greens – there is also the possibility of reducing the environmental impact. We have a emission regulation in Salzburg, which provides for a continuous 100 km/h limitation on the Tauern motorway, but which, in itself, would only be necessary on a single day on the basis of individual limit values. With a transport influence system, you can individually control the speed depending on the air load and thus contribute to the maintenance of mobility, but also to the discharge of our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12816	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12837	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marizzi has already strengthened the word 'intelligence'. The subject could really be subtitled with “Street With Growing Intelligence. ” It is already possible to warn against dangers with a transport influence system and thus the risk of contingency. to minimise cases effectively. Now it is possible to react adequately to automatically recorded traffic-damaging situations, i.e. to traffic conditions whose occurrence is not foreseeable in time or locality. The importance and need for intelligent and efficient traffic control will increase, as road transport will grow by around 30 percent throughout the network by 2015. Transport management does not end at Austrian borders, because the intersections of important European transport corridors are located in our country. The traffic management and information centre also balances the control strategies internationally and thus ensures a large-scale optimized transport process. It will be associated with other European transport centres, including transport centres in Bavaria, South Tyrol, Slovenia and Hungary. By 2010, some €300 million will be invested in the development of a comprehensive transport management and information system in the high-level road network to make Austria's motorways and highways the most modern and safest in Europe. Thank you very much to the Minister of Transport and also to Secretary of State Kukacka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12877	Next speaker: Mr Preineder. He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12898	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! Our Federal Government and all those responsible, including the Transport Committee, have repeatedly tried to constantly improve transport conditions and clearly also road safety – from cargo security to the warning vests, from the premise system to the alcovor test device. These are some examples of recent times that show in this direction. Increasing mobility means simply increasing traffic levels, which can not only be met by more roads, but also by targeted traffic avoidance. Because congestion means – we all know from our own experience – time loss, that is stress, and when we have stress, we like to increase the risk when driving. What is extremely happening – Mr Marizzi has already pointed out – is a national economic damage. There are calculations that one hour of congestion on the southeast tangent costs about €600 000. ÖAMTC estimates the total traffic jam costs in Austria at €19 billion per year – an eerie sum! The change in the road transport system, which will enable this traffic control system, is designed to counteract this change in time to respond to changed traffic situations in order to meet and control predefined situations. This is a measure that is being implemented today. I may be able to invite you to consider further measures. One of these would be to create more parking spaces on motorways so that one can make driving communities there. Mr Kainz, Mr Rädler and I have once again taken part in this House today in order not only to relieve the parking situation around Parliament, but also to avoid congestion in order to avoid stress and to relieve the environment. [[Congratulations and Bravorufe at the ÖVP]] I think there are constant improvements. I'll invite you to take her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12943	The last speaker is Mr Schweisgut. His speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e12965	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I am of course pleased about these driving communities in the early days. Unfortunately, I can't report anything positive in this respect because I've been here for three days because I'm from Tyrol, and I can't travel every day. Therefore, my topic is also the Tyrolean transport influence system, which has already started its pilot operation since the end of April. I live near Kufstein, am of course a lot on the road between Kufstein and Innsbruck and have already seen this facility in personal experience. I have found that it is certainly suitable for working very positively in Innsbruck. However, some very positive findings have also been shown in other areas: The video observation has allowed danger situations to be elucidated in time. Road tracks have been blocked due to an accident and have been alerted in good time by security forces sent to cover accident sites. In one case there was also a ghost driver, with a warning about these over-head systems displayed in time. Special indications are also possible on these plants. We have used them very often on the Inntal motorway, for example on certain holidays, when truck bans exist either in Italy, Germany or Austria, and therefore of course also the truck traffic has to be influenced quite differently. Overall, I have to say, this is a very, very positive measure. I am pleased that this law now allows the trial operation to go into a real operation that has not been possible so far. The improved safety and traffic flow, which is certainly worth an investment; not only in the quality of motorways, but also in the quality in the technical field, is to be invested. That is also what this government stands for, and I thank you for these possibilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13002	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1005 of the Supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Every Achleitner, Werner Miedl, colleagues, tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Elke Achleitner, Werner Miedl, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning the promulgation clause and § 44c(1). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. [[15:34:15]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 653/A (E) by Mr Franz-Joseph Huainigg, Mr Klaus Wittauer, Members, on the accessibility of public transport for older, disabled and small people (1006 p.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13090	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mrs. Dr. Moser. Your welcome time is 5 minutes. [[Abg.: (on the way to the speaker's desk) It takes 2 minutes!]] You only want two minutes. We hear this with joy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13125	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On Wednesday we discussed the law on equal treatment for men and women. My colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, was already concerned about what was going to be done with concrete improvements and concrete steps. We are also, of course, in principle pleased with the fact that the needs of the disabled, the people with disabilities, have finally been raised and become. However, we are not entirely satisfied that it remains in this survey and only in the preparation of a concept and that the concrete individual transposition measures under this law will not again be the will and expression of the approach in this Parliament. After five years of discussion, we have actually taken only a small step towards the survey and not a larger step towards implementation. My colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, has repeatedly referred to you her personal difficulties in using public transport and has given you very good examples. It's really humiliating – really humiliating! – how people with disabilities often do not meet their needs in public institutions financed by tax funds and are often transported in trains between two wagons on platforms. In this proposal, which you are now submitting, we are now not going back to the path of concrete improvement, but only the path of the general accumulation of individual abuses, general surveys, general conceptions. We do not want to delay time, we want to go into concrete action immediately. That's why it's too little for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13161	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13183	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This motion for a resolution refers to a concept in which we ask the Minister for Transport to contribute, in particular, to ensuring accessibility and also to safety measures for disabled people in road transport. It is often the case, for example, that blind people go and suddenly head on a street sign. Or they carry gross injuries if they suddenly do not touch the letterbox with the button and run against it. Also construction sites are only secured with tapes and therefore not tangible, which is also life-threatening. From my own experience, I have to say that some sidewalks are not sloped off and then you have to drive another way with the wheelchair, but that leads to dangerous transport areas and often leads to very critical situations in road transport. I therefore believe that a comprehensive approach should be drawn up with the countries and with the municipalities. I believe that this is such an important issue that I also hope that the opposition will vote in favour. I would like to express a special thanks to my parliamentary colleague at the end of the Parliamentary year. I think I can do this in return for all the Members of the House and say that we are very grateful for the help in the background and that this help also ensures the quality of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13216	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13237	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Skill You remember yesterday? That's where you celebrated the disability equal treatment law. They have tried to make us know that this is a great law with clear rights for disabled people who can also sue them. And today this resolution is coming. You know, discover even better than you did now, nobody could. If it were true, as you have said – and I told you that it is not – that there are indictable rights for disabled people in the field of public transport, then we do not need this resolution today, but then we would not need it at the latest on 1 January. January 2006 will be able to sue exactly what is in here. [[The speaker raised a motion for a resolution.]] But now you've delivered the evidence yourself. So that's a shot in the knee. They are not credible: Even better than with this paper you can't prove it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This paper is really a hit and has already gone to the public and to the Austrian disability movement, namely as an area description of what you claimed yesterday that all this was not true, which has been explained. But it's just like that. On this motion for a resolution itself, we must say: It is already a strong piece – I say again now – when the government parties always bring the right of self-determination and the right of self-representation of disabled people in such a way and claim how important it is to them and without it nothing at all goes. They say: Of course, you are involved in all decisions, for you are the experts. And then in this motion for a resolution, I read it to you, Mr Molterer: “The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology is invited to carry out, together with the countries, cities and communities, a survey of the needs of older, disabled and small people in public transport”, and so on. The disabled people as experts are not there. We, ladies and gentlemen, must and will present to you what is not barrier-free. You don't know. They understand it exactly as much as I do from mountain climbing, nothing! Once again, you can see clearly where your rights are for disabled people, where your expert knowledge of disabled people you always want to acquire remains if they are not even allowed to participate in the surveys on accessibility. Only the countries, cities, municipalities and the Federal Ministers should do this. – Yes, they understand the story! That's what we've got. There you can see how good they are, what they don't understand from matter. For if they understood something, they would not need it all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. With this request you are really ridiculous. [[Abg. Miedl: That is unheard of, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right! It's not unheard of!]] But that's your business and not mine. That the law on equal treatment for disabled persons does not keep what you have promised, you have proved it. We told you. However, I also want to tell you that the barriers in public space can at last be identified and must also be changed, because this is not about the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. We, ladies and gentlemen, want these expertise to be done together with the representatives of the disabled and not without them. The foreign determination is out! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Mag. Lap and Mag. Grossmann.]] Nor do we, ladies and gentlemen, want this to be a resolution until the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day, which will eventually be realized. There's no inside at all until when it's supposed to be implemented. That can also be in 2070. Who says that? - There's nothing in there! And that's not what's going on with us either. We want a clear time horizon. We want this result to be achieved by the representatives of the countries, towns and communities and the representatives of the disabled movement, of those affected – and with this I am now submitting my motion for a resolution, Mr President – no later than 31. It is necessary to present until 30 December 2005 and, as a result of these results, to present until 30. In June 2006, a government proposal on the substance of the fact that the elements of discrimination in public transport listed were properly removed within a period of two years is to be submitted. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This has strength and not what you have presented to us by the government parties – without time horizons, without involving people with disabilities. That's not what we're supposed to have for. We can't do that! That's why I'm asking you: Think about it! Take back your motion for a resolution and agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13324	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr has essentially explained the request. She has not read it literally, but I assume, Mrs Colleague, that what you have given us in writing and what we have distributed to all the political groups is the resolution you have tabled. [[Abg. Haidlmayr nodds.]] – He is involved, sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13401	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Your speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13422	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The movement in road traffic is affected by many barriers to older, disabled and small people. That is why we honour the initiative on the part of the government groups that they want to think about it once. The criticisms on our part also go in this direction, that unfortunately the people concerned are missing, so that the representation of the people concerned is not involved. We have tabled a request in the last Transport Committees, which we have prepared with the blind. They have then changed the rules for road signs a little in the road traffic regulations, but unfortunately they are still at a height that they represent a barrier for blind people. You see, you're gonna have to go a very long way. The problem is that disabled people don't let themselves go for a long time and that they want to come to their right. It is essential and important that disabled people are seen as experts and that people are treated with these people. This is a very serious accident, which is also a fatal one. As far as public transport is concerned, which you are addressing in this request, I would say that there is still a great deal of need for accessibility in the case of various trains. But otherwise, when I think of the Vienna metro network and the underground trains in Vienna, for example, this public transport in Vienna is barrier-free. However, we still want to support your efforts and support your request, but find that it is essential that you set yourself a deadline for efficient and successful work for disabled people and work for these people. That is why we also support the initiative of the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13473	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. She wants to talk 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13495	Mr President. I'll decide if I can use those 5 minutes or just talk for 3 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Haidlmayr, I think you are misunderstanding of this request. He's not a shot at the knee either, but it's about the famous sensitization. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I know you once told me at a panel discussion that you can't hear the word "sensitisation" anymore. But the people and our politicians need a great deal of awareness! It must be aware in all planning that there are older people, disabled people and parents with children's weights who also want to participate in the traffic. Not only do the standards need to be met, but they must also be applied in a meaningful way! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Mrs Haidlmayr, please be careful once I tell you something! Hardly say a word, shout! Watch out! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mostly entitled!]] For example, I got a catalogue, I think it was from an initiative in Graz. In this, the initiators have boasted that they have taken a great urban measure: Urban renewal and so on. What I saw was for me as a wheelchair driver, as a real driver, a disaster, because only loud hollow patch was present. It looked beautiful, but it was clumsy. While the standards have been fulfilled, no one has thought that disabled people are driving in the wheelchair. That's just one of the points! I then wrote to those responsible for this initiative, they then justified all of this and so on. Another example is the metro in Vienna. Mrs Lapp! They have just celebrated the subway in Vienna and said it would be barrier-free. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: It is not barrier-free!]] They have said that the disabled are not fooled. Mrs Lapp, take a wheelchair on the Vienna subway! There are so large columns between the train and the perron that you get panicic fear that you will fall in when you get in. The law is fulfilled, the subway is barrier-free, but there are these columns! – No, there is no ramp! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's right!]] [[Abg. May. Lap: There's a ramp!]] Mrs Lapp, I invite you, as Mrs Mandak did yesterday: Go with me on the subway, then you'll see! – Ms Haidlmayr nodds. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's our opinion!]] [[Call the SPÖ:You do dramatize!]] It runs almost daily by metro and is also in front of these columns. There are, for example, also very steep ramps in Vienna, where not even a stroller can be performed. Again, Mrs Haidlmayr: The standard is fulfilled, but no human can benefit from this ramp, and there are many more examples. I therefore believe that this request should also work on this awareness-raising. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, disability associations should be included. I think that leaves this request completely open, because it says that negotiations should be conducted with countries. But there are people behind it, and it is of course that the disabled associations and the affected are included. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] So this request is not ridiculous at all, but it makes sense. I would be in favour of making such requests in other departments, because there are many other areas, not only in public transport, where disabled, old, small and even smaller people, namely children, are disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13619	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13640	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr, I would like to address a few words to you. Because of the way you deal with our colleague, Mr Huainigg, I now feel that you already have almost a problem with the fact that here is a second disabled person, who is himself affected and highly competent in the affairs of disability policy, who works constructively and does not make everything bad as you do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] [[Abg. Sburny: This is really the last!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My warm thanks to Franz-Joseph Huainigg, who, despite his strong personal concern, shows a political commitment and a commitment that are simply admirable. Thank you, Franz-Joseph! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to tell you, Mrs Haidlmayr, that this request is not at all a contradiction to the law on equal treatment for the disabled, because it is a federal matter. You seem to have overlooked in the application you have clearly read that the countries and communities are to be involved and joint measures on increased road safety and on the public sector for small people, people with disabilities and people with disabilities are to be developed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] Therefore, this application has an absolute right. I very much welcome him and very much agree with him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13702	Mr Broukal: Laptop and phone... – That's too much! [[Abg. Broukal: Is too much!]] That's what you're saying. Thank you. [[General hustle and bustle.]] The next speaker is Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13742	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Most of the time, the planning and implementation of public transport is strongly oriented to average users. It is overlooked that different users have different needs. Meanwhile, there are good standards and directives that must be taken into account in public transport in order to ensure the safe and equal use of transport and transport areas by all users. But, obviously, there are still shortcomings in this area that need to be resolved. Older, disabled and small people in public transport are still facing major problems, making it difficult or even impossible for them to use public transport and thus they are severely restricted in their mobility. High levels, missing ramps, non-sloped sidewalks, close lift cabins, difficult-to-read signposts are just some of the obstacles with which people with disabilities have to fight. But mothers and fathers with children's weights are also affected and therefore often depend on foreign help. Similarly, the current traffic policy regulation for small people, including children, poses many dangers and should therefore be adapted. Even for blind and visually impaired people, structural barriers can become too great a danger. It is about too low mounted road signs or missing tangible floor markings. Bad and safe construction sites can also lead to serious injuries. All of this could be avoided by custom planning and changes. Blind people and wheelchairs want to participate independently and especially safely in public transport. Unfortunately, they are often denied this very thing. Mobility barriers must be reduced. I am therefore glad that there is today this proposal to take a further step towards accessibility in public transport in order to ensure the mobility of all road users.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13786	The next speaker is Mr Preineder. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13807	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Mr State Secretary! It is the second request of our Franz-Joseph Huainigg, according to the law on equal treatment for disabled persons, to whom I am quite able to congratulate for his attitude in life and for his political implementation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is a matter of achieving greater consideration for the disabled, the elderly and the smaller, especially children, in public transport. As a father of two little children, from Twins, I know how difficult it is often to get along with a large stroller when you get to a walkway edge And don't know how to deal with it, or if you're on a walkway that's getting narrower, and you've got to get out of the street. Obstacles such as bushes or flower twigs often stand in the way and pose a problem. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If that was a problem for me as a father, then it certainly applies to older or disabled people. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It's about to take a break. I can wish you all a pleasant holiday, but I can also ask you, consciously and with open eyes, to walk through the world with the eyes of the elderly and the disabled and perhaps to move as these people move, and to see some obstacles that we otherwise do not see in order to reach a certain understanding here. Sometimes it is not about high costs, but it is about recognizing and considering the problems of these people accordingly. Let's get these stones out of the way! Let's build bridges with it! Each long path begins with the first step. In particular, I invite the Greens to accept this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13864	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13886	Mr President. High house! Mrs Partik-Pablé! They are right, it takes a great deal of awareness to take steps and implement them. I think in the ideal case, each and every one of us should always think: What are the decisions we take here, in the countryside and in the community, for people with disabilities, for older people and for small people? [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I am glad that Mr Huainigg has chosen this wording because it is very often based on the needs of people with disabilities, which is, of course, quite rightly and very important. But also people who have small children, and especially people of old age have exactly the same problems, are facing the same problems. That is to say, it concerns a very large group of people when we talk about the barriers to everyday life and especially about the barriers to public transport. In principle, however, I also believe that your request, Franz-Joseph, needs clarification. Unfortunately, it is. Unfortunately, we need deadlines, otherwise little or nothing happens. But of course we also need the participation of those affected. It is too often planned and decided on across the parties concerned. What comes out, we see every day. I am not driving in a transport community to Parliament, but by public transport. For example, at the South Railway Station, which has just been rebuilt, I noticed that there have been new billboards that are not legible for anyone who has to wear even a weak eyeglasses – not to talk of people who see very badly – at all. Old people can't read these plates at all. It is therefore not only about the whole question of lifts in railway stations, the painful climbs everywhere and the access to transport, but also about: move in the buildings and get to the information. Unfortunately, this is still not the case. I personally think you don't have to wait until anything has been raised to take action. I know dozens of railway stations in Austria, where there are no barriers to access the platform. I don't need a lift. I need a lift. I also know fifty platforms, where I get out of the train only over three steps. I don't need a survey, I need a different track and proper trains! There are a number of measures that we know are urgent. I know it's not all in federal competence, but at least the ÖBB could make an exemplary progress here. I wish it were. Unfortunately, it is not that way to date, and also in the case of measures that have just been taken. Too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e13946	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on the 1006 committee report of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 131.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr, colleagues, on concrete measures with a clear horizon on the accessibility of public transport for disabled, elderly and small people and their safety in public transport. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[16:04:17]] 12. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 651/A by Mr Klaus Wittauer, Mr Werner Miedl, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Tasks and Organisation of the Federal Water Road Administration (Waswärtstraßengesetzinnovelle 2005) (1007 p.b.) 13. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 650/A by Mr Klaus Wittauer, Mr Werner Miedl, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Aviation Act (1008, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14028	We now come to points 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. You don't have to take time off. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14067	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I will certainly not take advantage of the five minutes and would like to stress first that SPÖ has always stood for the establishment of an accident investigation centre of the federal government. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] At present, however, such an institution exists only for aviation, and it should now be extended to ships and railways in accordance with a government template. However, as constitutional provisions are also necessary, the SPÖ was involved in parliamentary negotiations. We have expressed a number of concerns, and these concerns have been largely taken into account in several rounds of negotiations. On the other hand, there are some open points that we still want to negotiate, which will be the case by the beginning of September at the latest, to present the draft on 22 September. September 2005 – so I hope – to be able to adopt in the Transport Committee together with the government groups. The SPÖ has succeeded in avoiding judicial parallel investigations in the negotiations and in providing adequate legal protection for the parties involved. Close cooperation will be established between the investigating prosecutors and the accident investigation agency. It is only in this way that the actual purpose of the accident investigation body, namely the accident analysis and proposals for the prevention of further accidents, can be sufficiently separated from the debt and liability issues of the parties involved. As far as today's aviation legislation is concerned, it is a sort of emergency solution, an emergency request from the government parties, because they are already in arrears compared to an EU date with the implementation deadlines. But the whole thing is closely related to what I said earlier. So we regard this as an overall package and today do not agree with this part of the package, but will be happy to give our consent to the entire package in September, as far as everything is done.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14112	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14133	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We have two templates today, one of which is a novel to the waterway law. In the previous year, we distributed the water road management from the transport resort and determined that within three months the allocation of the persons active in the transport resort to the corresponding company must be made so that the control of locks and the waterway system can be carried out there. However, it has been found that three months are not sufficient because it has not been considered that an opposition can also be objected against such decisions and that in such a case the allocation is not possible during this three-month period. However, we absolutely need the specialists on the spot, because the economy that is operating on the Danube needs a good regulation, because locks always have to be kept waiting. The experts must therefore actually make this optimal regulation. For this reason, we now delete the passus that the allocation has to be made within three months, so that this can be implemented safely and legally even in cases where an objection has been made. The second novel, which we decide today, is the novel to the Aviation Act. It is true that a whole series of important things are in preparation for aviation. There will also be another novel to the Aviation Act in autumn. Furthermore, the investigative body that Kurt Ederer mentioned will be set up. However, it is about that we are almost in arrears with the implementation of two EU rules. ==References== The EU Directive on the reporting of ‘events’ in civil aviation is to be transposed on July 2005. At present, there is the rule that only accidents and disturbances of the Austro control should be reported. Now so-called events are also to be reported. These are defects, malfunctions, interruptions and so on. The circle of reporting agents will also be increased, i.e. not only the airfielders, air carriers and pilots, but also all persons who develop, manufacture, review, wait, load, derail, drag and so on have to make such reports. In other words, all incidents that will occur and will occur in the future will be cataloged, they will now be known and examined, and this will increase aviation safety. We also need to adapt to the EU regulation on slot allocation at airports. We have had the flight plan coordinator in the aviation law as in the EU so far, and now there is another function, the flight plan intermediary, which we also need to record and which will serve to better allocate the slots. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] So we have made a total of two major improvements: Security is increased, and slot allocation is more just. Yet, surprisingly, there is still someone who does not agree. I urge everyone to adopt both laws unanimously.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14194	Next word: Mrs Bayr. She too wishes 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14215	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the Court of Auditors, the distribution of the Federal Water Roads Directorate was one of the most unsuccessful distributions at all. It has entailed considerable additional costs for the federal government. Due to the establishment of the public waterways-GesmbH in December 2004, huge federal assets have been transferred to this society. This is almost family silver: Family silver, which includes 30 ships, 4 quarries, various excavators, nearly 200 plots and is of course very interesting for the private sector. The current novel provides for a specific extension of the period of privatisation for the control of locks. We of the SPÖ believe that the question of sluice supervision is one that is really a public task. We also have the criticism that this will further make the control of social and technical regulations more difficult. Personally, I very much hope that the privatisation trends in the transport resort will now come to an end quite slowly that they will end above all in front of Lake Constance shipping. Although this would of course be very lucrative and exciting for the future employer of the Minister of Transport, I must say one thing: In his capacity as Minister of Transport, Mr Vice-Chancellor is really not to discuss a certain consequence. He has weakened all the meetings of the Transport Committee with unshakable consequence – I believe, until one meeting – and he has not attended most of the debates on transport issues here in plenary. There may be many reasons for this. It may be that in the FPÖ was the permanent crisis or that now in the marginalising BZÖ the hat burns and it has to be permanently erased; that is possible. It may be that he is not interested in transport policy. But it may also be that he has no respect for the House and for parliamentarianism. We don't know. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But what we know in any case and what is sun-clear is that this unfortunate period of life, which he is now leading, will soon end for him, that he will soon have brought it up and that for him something new, certainly much more appropriate and better in the private sector is close to grasping. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you have anything on the subject?]] I would have liked to have used the last day of this session, the last item on the agenda to say adieu to the Minister for Transport. Unfortunately, he himself said adieu a few weeks ago, and he's not here again. I hope very much and wish him that he will have more success and more skill in his new role in the private sector than he has as Vice-Cancellor and Minister of Transport. [[Abg. Neudeck: You could have written that to him!]] However, to bring its new service provider the Lake Constance shipping through a further privatisation almost as a morning gift, I really think this is very tasteless and hope it doesn't come to pass. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In any case, we reject the 2005 Wasserstraßengesetznovelle from SPÖ. However, we do not give up the hope that a future transport minister will be a little more motivated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14277	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14298	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Statements have already been made on the waterways legislation – on the part of the government parties – and on what is the reason for this novelle and why it is necessary. [[Abg. Neudeck: But not from the previous speaker!]] The fact is that due to the opposition of the trade union due to the remuneration status and the place of service which are not fixed in the contract, there is a risk that the allocation period will be exceeded and that the officials will have to remain in the BMVIT. This is not supposed to be the case, and this innovation will allow these things to be regulated accordingly. On the novels to the Aviation Act, I can say that, with regard to the events that are now to be reported in accordance with the EU Directive – and it has already been mentioned in detail what is under it – it is quite welcome, if it is to improve aviation safety, if the relevant safety lessons are drawn from them and thereby improve. We shall also vote in favour of the second point, but he will nevertheless raise a little scepticism with regard to the allocation of slots at airports. [[Abg. Eder: Exactly!]] Experience shows that, for example, flight planning coordination by the European Union through EUROCONTROL does not cause satisfaction everywhere. So there are experiences that make the criticism seem quite appropriate, namely, if it is no longer possible for Austrian controllers, in cooperation with the pilots, to fly from Germany's airport to France, because some airways are blocked and the controller himself is no longer able to do so. It is therefore important to be very careful that this coordination does not lead to over-coordination and a brake. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also have these concerns in connection with the slots, i.e. slots allocated for airports. Nevertheless, we will agree, but throw a critical eye on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14354	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 4 minutes welcome. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14387	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It was a slight understatement of Mr Regler when he said that we were almost too late. It should have been implemented on 4.7. We have also put a small comment on this in committee. The fact that the administrative infringement procedure is intended only if there is a reasonable suspicion of intentional and grossly negligent cause of accidents is a somewhat user-friendly one, that is, if the unparticipant does not receive a procedure because it was only a normal negligence. We have therefore criticized this, but in principle we agree. It is also with the Federal Law on the Federal Water Road Administration, and it should be noted here that the "Speed kills" problem has occurred. We have recently criticized the fact that we will have to change it here very quickly. That's the way it came. Ladies and gentlemen! This leads me to add a few fundamental comments on sustainability at the end of this year, before the summer break. Today, a colleague from the ÖVP has said on the subject of strategy: The Greens obviously don't have much knowledge of strategy. This may be true when it comes to the actual concept of the art of warfare. But he has changed a lot in the last centuries and has become a term for long-term thinking in greater goals and contexts, and there we have, I think, a lot of the nose ahead. That's exactly what we miss: We miss the long-term planning, sustainable implementation and also the preparation and cooperation here in the House. If amendments are always tabled at the last second, which we will not be able to agree to again, this does not exactly refer to the quality of your work. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In such cases, Mr Kogler always says: Go inside! – You can do that now during the summer break. Come on. Please rest again, and finally commit yourself to the sustainability that you always lead in your mouth! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14445	Last speaker: Mr Böhm. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14466	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can assure you, I've just checked the list, I've got 19 minutes leftover, but I promise you not to take advantage of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is life-longer, colleague!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about air transport laws, we should also look at the current situation in Austria in particular, namely the current figures that have occurred in recent months, namely the Vienna airport and the Salzburg airport, which are the two largest airports in Austria. The development in Salzburg: plus 25 percent; in the first half of 2005 almost 900 000 passengers, so arriving and leaving guests. Vienna Airport: 7 million passengers. The Austrian Airlines are negotiating with Slovakia Airlines to take over them and expand the Standbein Prussia and Slovakia. – I think that is very important information. The new law itself, which is under negotiation, has already been said a lot; there is nothing more to add to that. Finally, I would like to talk about air traffic weather advice. This point, unfortunately, has been lost in the debate, but I would like to allow myself to inform the Secretary of State. The flight weather advice was privatized, it was changed there. As the media service of the Salzburg Chamber of Commerce has told me, there are some inconsistencies. Mr. State Secretary, maybe we can go on 22nd. September to look at this again. It is always necessary to make improvements there. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker before the summer break, I would like to make a request to our President. Since in the last two years I have been able to choose the holiday in such a way that I have had to interrupt it because of a special meeting, I can inform the President of the following: I'm on vacation for ten days now – and that's why: You might be able to attend the special meeting after the 20th century. Do it on July. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] A wonderful holiday for everyone wherever you go or will be! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14519	Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that this election does not depend on me, but on those political groups who have a right to request special meetings. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] They can, however, calculate about when an appointment for a special meeting is politically “lukrative”. That's a question of intelligence you certainly have. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – I am convinced that you can spend your vacation indefinitely, because the opposition itself knows when a good appointment for is a special meeting. I'd say by the 15th. August is pretty safe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word is not wanted on the part of the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the 2005 draft law on waterways, including the title and receipt in 1007 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is done by a majority, is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign. – In third reading, the majority has increased. The draft was also adopted by a majority in third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the aviation law, including the title and receipt in 1008 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – The agreement shall also be given by a majority of the third reading. The draft law is adopted. The agenda is exhausted. However, I would ask you to give me your attention because we still have an assignment meeting – and I would like to address a few words to you at the end of the day. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00117_d7e14621	I am still announcing that in today's session, autonomous requests were made for 676/A (E) to 688/A (E). Questions 3264/J to 3334/J were also raised. Finally, a request from Members of Parliament has been made to the President of the National Council by Dr Kräub, colleagues and colleagues. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, as well as the decision to end the meeting, will be convened at 16.26 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
