ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3912	The 109. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen in the House. The Official Protocols of 107 and 108. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: In April 2005, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Mr Wimmer has been reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3946	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein will be the Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grass Server Stepping. [[09:05:44]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3976	We are now getting to the current one. Hour with the theme: ‘Future security of the welfare state of Austria’ As First of all, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The honourable Member, your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4003	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The social system in Austria is one of the main pillars of the Second Republic for social peace and progress in our country. We have recently taken note of the poverty report of the Republic of Austria, where we have seen that, due to the successes of this Federal Government, we are in the top of the European 15 and beyond. We have seen, ladies and gentlemen, that despite too high unemployment, unemployment among disabled people has fallen significantly from over 40 000 in 1999 under the socialist government to just under 30 000. It turns out, therefore, that the efforts made by the Federal Government in recent years have particularly affected the most socially in need in this country in a particularly positive way. The fact that the employment rate of women with disabilities has also improved significantly – in 1999, under Mrs Prammer, 38 per cent more employment, today by 10 per cent – is quite clear that the number of people with disabilities and all these measures in this area have been successful in recent years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a constant discussion in Austria, in which social and social quotas are called into question. I can show you here a short statistics on the development of the social rate in Austria. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] The social rate in Austria has been significantly increased from 28.4 percent in 2000 to 28.7% in 2001 and 29.1% in 2002. Ladies and gentlemen! If one looks at the share of investment for families in the overall budget, it is clear from this curve that under the Social Democratic Government the share of investment for families was 6.5 percent, 1999 also 6.5 percent, and with the government Schüssel I and II increased to 8.3 percent in 2004 and 8.5 percent in 2005. [[the speaker shows another graphic]] I believe that one can make it clear with these curves that not only has there been a family-friendly social policy in Austria been mentioned under this federal government, but there has actually been a clear upturn of 6.5 percent that you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, have been responsible for today at 8.5 percent. – This is a beautiful success of this federal government in the social field for families. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the differences in income between men and women – the income of men is shown here with 100 – you can also see that this federal government was successful: [[the speaker shows a graphic the other day]] In 1990, under socialist chancellorship, we had 71.2 percent, 2000, at the end of the Social Democratic governments, 81.2 percent, and in 2002 we had 82.2 percent and in 2004 almost 83 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! So you see, here too, the Federal Government has been successfully involved in the social upturn in recent years in the interest of women in this country. We have decided in recent years a number of social measures, and it is therefore of interest, Mrs Federal Minister, how and in what form the social system in Austria will be secured in future. With the pension reform and the harmonisation of pensions, we have redesigned the pension system for older generations, but also for young people in this country. I can add that if there are now again debates about the introduction of unemployment support for entrepreneurs, for farmers, the current 17.5% contribution benefits in the pension harmonisation system are also due to the fact that there is no insurance for unemployed entrepreneurs. So if you make a change in this area, the contribution rates will also be re-examined, because it will not be a question of taking the status quo on the one hand among workers and farmers, and, on the other hand, of disregarding changes in the fields of self-employment, of how these rates have been drawn up at the time. Therefore, I think it is interesting how these ideas will be implemented in the future and whether the corresponding contribution rates will be adequately increased to 22.8 percent if the public hand is to a decisive extent in the case of an unemployment insurance scheme for self-employed persons. Both, ladies and gentlemen, should not go, according to my own understanding: to continue to achieve lower contributions and to receive additional benefits from the public sector, which other professional groups receive. I therefore believe that there are a number of questions to discuss here, issues that are important for long-term security in Austria and which we also have to discuss in good time and comprehensively. Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, we have been able to raise the care allowance again, and I also think it is important to point out here that the care allowance represents a crucial part of social security in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the care allowance, however, it should not be forgotten that the idea of an additive, i.e. an additional care check, is a long-term pursued idea not only by the Free Minister of Social Affairs, but also by parts of disabled organisations. And the introduction at that time of a general care contribution in health insurance in 2002 is also an important sign that the Austrian Parliament is largely opposed to such an additive form of care insurance in the then legislative period. I therefore believe that the excitement of the last 24 hours should be seen against the background of the facts. An improvement in these areas should be sought, an improvement in these areas is desirable. One should not have a discussion with When and But, but rather hold that in discussion, which was always the stock of the considerations of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs, namely to seek an additive solution with the care check, rather than to present the current services as being always at risk in the public debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that, as a result of the demographic development in Austria, we will need such a development. In this area, we have achieved, for the first time, with the Article 15a agreements we have reached with the federal states, that the care and accompanying professions are recognised beyond the federal borders and therefore that young people also have new career opportunities and prospects. I do not think it is the right way to tolerate illegal employees in Austria in the long term, but it is in the long term the only right way to create employment in Austria through legality and through training Austrians in nursing and accompanying professions. Just as we, together with the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, managed to convert more than 2,500 people who were unemployed into care professions, it must succeed to meet the needs of Austria, namely, 10 000 caregivers, from their own areas by 2010. I don't like to tolerate illegality. But I think it is all to convert unemployed people into new, better-dominated occupations and to give them work and employment, and to make older people take care of people who understand them who have the same cultural background. It is about the elderly being cared for by people who are also close to them because of their cultural nature, and not by persons who also have language barriers to overcome and therefore only partially or not understand those who have been sent to care for them. We have a lot to do in this area, and it is therefore important for me to discuss this area comprehensively and forward-lookingly. – I wish the welfare state of Austria a good development.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4128	Mrs Haubner spoke for an introductory opinion on the subject. 10 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4149	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the current hour, we have chosen the topic of ‘Future security of the social state of Austria’, and I would like to begin by saying that effective and fair social policy must be taken into account and implemented at many levels. But one thing is always important: The individual person must be at the centre of all efforts. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have done a lot and the right thing in this government in the past. While in other countries, economically difficult times have begun to save on social benefits, we have reversed and expanded. We have a balanced balance of social security for all. Despite difficult fiscal consolidation, the Social Report 2003 states that social benefits and the social rate in Austria account for 29.1 percent of GDP. This brings us, ladies and gentlemen, to the fifth place among the European states. The second joint report by the Council and the European Commission on social inclusion also highlights some positive points for Austria: because of our social benefits, we have a reduction in the poverty risk rate, that the rate of long-term unemployed is among the lowest in Europe, that the female employment rate has increased, that we have, above all, set very specific measures in the pension and pension sectors, and that we are taking more than ever more measures for people with disabilities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In Austria, of course, we know those groups that are particularly vulnerable to poverty, and I just want to take two out: There are those families where there is a single earner who has several children, and there are those families where a parent alone is raised. And here we have been dealing with the tax reform in recent months, which will relieve exactly this group of persons of €250 million. I think that this will be very positive in the next Social Report. That we have done the right thing, I am glad, and in this context there is also praise from the opposition. In the newspaper of the Pensionist Association, you can read that Mr. Matznetter and the boss of pensioners, Mr. Blecha, clearly say that pensioners are among the winners of this tax reform because they remain a lot more each year and every month. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Social country Austria has made sure that in the future pensions are guaranteed for all, including the young generation. We have the same system from 1 January through the harmonisation and merger of pension systems. January 2005 for all under 50-year-olds, with the same benefits and with the same contributions. We have greatly improved the pension scheme for women. There, where 15 years of work were required in the past, are now only seven years needed. However, we have also taken account of individual situations of life and have successfully balanced hardships, especially for those who work for a long time, especially for those who work hardest, for people with disabilities, for people who need special care at the age of. I'm just remembering that with 1. This year, the Home Residence Act enters into force, which is also a great achievement for better care or for better support of older people in senior homes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also specifically taken into account – it is just a package of work – the merits of those who have suffered in the past under a criminal system of National Socialism and who are also worthy of the celebrations we celebrate in this year. We have acted correctly by taking into account sufferings suffered by prisoners of war, and we will also take into account the achievements of those women who have raised children and rebuilt the Republic in the first post-war years under particularly severe conditions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These are merits that must also be recognized in the social field, and we will have to send clear signals to those who have suffered from systems or a terrible war in the past. The most important question, ladies and gentlemen, of a future-proof social state is also the issue of generations. The creation of a social balance between generations is a major challenge. The investment in the families is an investment in the future of our country. Families stand for social security, for value-oriented education of young people and, above all, for the care and care of older citizens and family members. Therefore, the financial services provided in the family must also be paid in financial terms, and this is what we have done with the introduction of the childcare allowance. The child care allowance includes both elements: an efficient contribution to ensuring family income, but also the ability to earn by working and the possibility to devote itself more to his child during the first years. In 2005, we paid around €905 million for the childcare allowance. At the end of March 2005, a total of 168,272 persons received childcare allowance. Ladies and gentlemen! That's three times as much as the karenz money. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, 2 600 persons receive the increased child care allowance due to multiple births; not yet included are family allowances and family benefits. The partnership incentive for fathers could also be strengthened. In 2000, 1 400 fathers took advantage of child care. Now, in March 2005, there are already 5 316 fathers. [[Abg. Oils: You know exactly what the reason is!]] You see, ladies and gentlemen, appropriate parenting arrangements, family-friendly working conditions and childcare benefits help make things work well in families, but also maintain contact with the labour market. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, it will be more important to make social conditions available to people in the sense of an active social policy. This means that we need a social policy that dispels the hardships and makes transfer payments, but above all it also creates framework conditions so that people can help themselves better. That means: We need to invest more in labour, to invest where jobs can be created and secured. In particular, I would like to draw out three topics from our area: This is the phase of family work in which the work opportunities for parents and mothers are to be given. It is currently true that 80 000 women are more above the poverty limit due to the increased ability to earn child care. As you know, in the last few weeks, we have decided to improve the application of the weekly allowance by means of a novel, while at the same time working and receiving the childcare allowance, so that both are counted so that mothers who are active do not have a disadvantage. We will continue in this direction to the compatibility of work and family. That means: In cooperation with the economy, we will be increasingly looking for an alliance for the families. We will enter into new partnerships. We will further develop the audit family and profession as an efficient tool on the employers' side, and I also expect the additional funds in the field of broadband initiative to create so-called teleworking jobs, especially in rural regions, in order to improve the compatibility of work and family. Ladies and gentlemen! The second area for the future is that we continue the targeted employment plan for people with disabilities. We have started well, and we will still need many jobs for people with disabilities, because for these people in particular, meaningful work with a comprehensive income is absolutely necessary. The third area – our social spokesperson has already tailored it – is the care sector. The nursing sector is one of the biggest challenges we have to face. Growing old at home is the wish of most people in Austria. If you watch the newspapers today, you will read that a survey has been conducted: The Austrians want to grow old at home. We must also give the right answers to this request. Therefore, on the one hand, care money is one of the most important foundations that we have created in recent years, which has been raised by 2% for the first time this year, but we must also think further. That is why I am also saying that a project that we have carried out under the title “old going home” in Carinthia will bring us some results. We have introduced a so-called care check in addition to the care allowance, which offers services for relatives, for caregivers, caregivers. The results of this evaluation will also make clear to us what we still have to do at federal policy level. Ladies and gentlemen! The path we are taking in social policy is heading forward. In recent years, we have laid a good foundation, a good basis for responding to the demographic development that we must give in the coming years, because we are orienting ourselves in our social policy on the life cycle of people. This means: the best opportunities for young people, the family does not see as an obstacle when it comes to reconciling work and family, and above all the safety, care and care in the third phase of life. [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government has committed itself to this. People can rely on us and trust us. People know where the journey is going: into a good future with strong families in Austria and with a strong, secure social network. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4246	In the next debate, each speaker has a speaking time of 5 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4270	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The question of the Social State of Austria is the subject of today's hour. The social state of Austria is successful and can be seen. He is certainly one of the most successful social states in the world. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thanks 30 years of social democracy!]] 99 percent of the population live in social health insurance. We have a family support, which in the meantime has been modelled in ageing Europe. Nevertheless, I do not want to start with the change in policy, but I would like to thank those 3.9 million people in Austria who report to us social statistics for the year 2004, who are aware that every day the social state needs to be reintroduced, not in order to be able to redistribut as much as possible, but in order to promote and demand specifically. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] Ladies and gentlemen! I see it as a lucky case for the welfare state of Austria that five years ago there was a turning point in social policy and in government policy. Where else would we be with the Austrian social systems if they were still under socialist leadership? Were we already there where the old national lights or the “consumer ” landed? Or would they be destroyed like the credit institution? [[Abg. Riepl: Please, stop!]] Was it not time to rely on reform and change in good time? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The one who is not ready for change and reform is the right social degradation. We have always distanced ourselves from that. We receive our social systems and re-design them every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You know just as well as I do that it had already been done in pension insurance and health insurance there and there. You know that the balance between generations has completely come out of balance through an ever earlier early retirement system. That is why it was absolutely right, ladies and gentlemen, that, with the 2003 pension reform and the harmonisation of pensions with the introduction of family benefits at the same time, we have set a turnaround in the pension system to a very high degree and at the same time massive consideration of child rearing, which is now gradually being implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In parallel to this pension reform, it was decided to introduce the provision of staff, which does not apply to the rich, such as you are telling here and there, but to over 1.2 million Austrian workers. In the meantime, the prospect of the future has also been used by half a million people. However, we have also been dealing with the fight against poverty in the care of old age. With an increase in the compensation allowance by a multiple of the other pension increases, we have effectively combated poverty in old age and at the same time kept the payer's circle lower. There is actually no better indicator of successful poverty reduction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In conclusion, however, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this social state consists not only of the people to be promoted, but also of those who, for example, have an acquisition in their lives, have to pay and be demanded. And there too, balance and balance are important. No one who pays decently is supposed to feel like being pulled over the table. I therefore also think that the tax reform has an essential social-state aspect, not only because it will secure jobs and provide for workplace-friendly corporate taxation – as Bert Rürup has repeatedly mentioned – which Austria has started to fight and compete, but also because, with 2.5 million non-counters, a huge social benefit is provided. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We leave people the money so that they can make their own social life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4366	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4388	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said the following in other places, and it also applies here: When you use international comparisons, you have to say that you can be very happy that you live in Austria. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] But to those concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this does not help at all. We must take action! Let's stick to the international comparisons: We currently have the highest unemployment in Austria to combat. The reference to international figures is not the solution, but the concrete work we have already proposed on several occasions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] They have addressed women's employment. Let's be honest: What employment is it? – It is part-time work, it is minor employment, it is not enough full-time employment, because it lacks childcare facilities, the They still do not create enough, ladies and gentlemen, to a large extent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Not just! Many just want to work part-time!]] Let us talk about the tax reform! What about those who no longer pay taxes, but who need the money most urgently? Why don't we increase the negative tax of 110 € to 220 €? – This would increase purchasing power, and this would, above all, also promote domestic consumption. These are measures that help and also help to combat poverty, because unfortunately it is not the way we are trying to agree here that it is actually being stopped or reduced. Unfortunately, it is increasing again, and that must be the challenge for us. Mr Tancsits, I remember your letters to the air traffic controllers you recommended they should become sailing instructors. This is not a labour market policy that we need. We need training for the boys, and we should do much more than what the Federal Government is currently thinking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you let the last five years of Revue happen, you have to ask yourself: Is it really such a lucky case that co-insurance has been abolished? Is this a lucky case for social security in our country? Is it a coincidence that the prescription fee has been increased? – It is a lucky case that the top courts have withdrawn measures from your government coalition when I think of accident pension taxation or your actions in the main association, ladies and gentlemen! – This has nothing to do with social security, as you think. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let's talk about the pension reform! Is it really a successful reform if the elderly are still driven out of the labour market and – because they do not reside in unemployment and therefore employability in the law – are pushed into the pension with cuts? Is this the pension reform we want? – To this end, the Socialists have proposed other plans that must be implemented, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Or: I am thinking in particular of the pension area that women are not actually expected to replace child care periods for the pension in such a way that there is also a fair pension. You can now lean back and say: This will only become effective in 20 or 30 years. – The stakeholders expect sustainable policies from us and therefore also a corresponding accounting of child rearing times, not to the extent that they are now, but to the extent of the median income of men and women. That would be a fair pension bill – and not what we have today. Ladies and gentlemen! Where is the solution to heavy work? . In the law, we have a formula that allows the Minister of the Interior to find such a regulation by 2007. In the meantime, however, we have more and more people who find themselves in real difficulties due to the lack of such a regulation. I think it would be much more sensible to act now and not to do so within an hour as if we had the healing world. We need measures in training, we need measures in continuing training, because social security can only be realized if we fight unemployment, promote economic growth and support infrastructure measures accordingly. So let's not pretend to have the healing world. Don't do this as an opposition talk. These are very specific examples that we can prove. Think of infrastructure measures, different transport situations. Think about playing on the promotion of thermal insulation in the households! This would create employment and thus guarantee the financing of social security. Not to mention that we should finally have the courage to think more about the financialability of the social system than we are now – not exclusively on the basis of wages, but on a broader basis. Final sentence: The Black Entrepreneurship – let us take note of this! – must be combated. It is not the KIAB, but we would need a real criminal record so that black entrepreneurship does not remain a cavalier crime. In my opinion, this is a challenge for all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4460	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4482	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We want a good future for a social Austria. That means we want to create equal opportunities for young and old. [[Abg. Eder: Who is “we”?]] We want equal opportunities for men and women, and we want equal opportunities for the healthy and the sick – in a system that is social and fair for all generations. The government, ladies and gentlemen, has already done a lot in this regard. I don't dispute: It's still a lot to do. – But why do we still have so much to do? [[Call the SPÖ: Who is “we”?]] If Mr Vergestnich, who spoke before me, wants to have sustainable policy, I say to you, colleagues from Social Democracy: They had the opportunity and the opportunity to make sustainable policies until five years ago. If you had made sustainable policies in the social field, for pensioners and for women, we would not have the problems we face today, namely, high unemployment, Mr Vergestnich! Take note of this! You have failed, that's why we have problems today. That's the point. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's absurd what you give of yourself! A special class grief game!]] Take note that you did not act socially, otherwise the numbers would not be the same as they are today. You know for yourself that you have to work longer term in the social field in order to make a real change. We'll do it! There have already been many concrete measures. Do you require new childcare facilities? - Yes! The Federal Minister has already launched a new project. There are now €700 000 annually available for childcare facilities, child care facilities to measure, exactly what parents want and what children need: flexible opening hours and age-mixed groups. This is a project in which €700 000 have been made available annually for childcare facilities. [[Abg. Oils: This is a...!]] Take note of this! Take part in the fact that there are additional childcare facilities! We've done a lot more. We have given families a new priority in Austria. In the meantime, child rearing as a value is also recognised as a benefit. If women under socialist government have 15 years of employment to be insured at age, our Federal Government has now managed to make seven years of work as a contribution. This has been enforced by the current German Government through retirement-based child rearing times that we have negotiated, not you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They have promised pensionable child rearing periods from SPÖ for decades, but have not been enforced. - We've put this through! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Who are you talking to?]] If there is a ban on the work of caregivers in your government, we have achieved with the child care allowance that women also have the opportunity to earn that they can also work during the childcare period, so that the profession and family are no longer one against each other, but one another. At the time of the socialist government, women were banned from working. Profession and family are now a co-operation, that is, not a socialist defiance/or, but a liberal both/as well. [[Abg. Silhavy: You have no idea what you're talking about!]] That's what women need and want in the future. That's what we allow them to do. [[Call the SPÖ: Who is “we”?]] Childcare is a milestone in social security for all women, regardless of their professional activity. Take note of this! The figures, the increasing rates of those taking advantage of it, show it. We've achieved a lot. We have achieved a great deal, especially in the area of tax reform. For the families, a lot was done at €250 million. And I think it's very interesting that you, just as you do in child care money, are at first defying everything, but now you already realize and realize that it's good. Even in the tax reform, you have only finished everything here, but now your socialist colleague, Blecha, writes a letter to it. Mr Ververtnich has probably not read this letter from your group's pensioner, Blecha. In this letter, Blecha writes: This is a success that has taken place during pension harmonisation for pensioners. President Karl Blecha is pleased to pay pensioners with small and medium-sized pensions less taxes. Yes, I do! We are also pleased with Mr Blecha, because we have implemented this in the government. Read this letter, read what your own pensioner association writes: This is a success of the Federal Government that has taken place here! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are pleased when the opposition or representatives of you finally acknowledge that good work is being done. Because with this, with our federal government, we secure a social Austria for a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4616	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4637	Ladies and gentlemen! They're wondering what we're talking about. [[Abg. Steibl: About the Social State of Austria!]] The Chairman of the FPÖ social spokesperson said: The success of the FPÖ, the social rate is increasing! – The social spokesperson of the ÖVP states: Thank God, the ÖVP came to the government in 2000 together with the FPÖ – which one no longer knows exactly who it really is – and has reduced the social rate – the social benefits, you have rightly said. - You said that. So what's going on? Has it gone up or down? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Upstairs, of course!]] - Up! Upstairs, Mrs Fekter, has only gone with the social ratio; not much, just a little. You want me to tell you why? [[Abg. Scheibner: Please don't!]] Do you really want me to explain that to you? Do I have to tell you that? The Members of the Economic and Social Committee know this because, of course, you always want to tell us this on every occasion. The social rate in Austria has increased because unemployment has so rapidly increased. That is the reality, Mrs Fekter! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: In Vienna!]] We have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic. We have more than 50 000 to 100 000 unemployed people if we count the trainees, the pension pensioners, than we did a few years ago. That's the reality! Of course, that costs something. And then the Minister of Social Affairs and Social Spokesman of the FPÖ and still claim: Let us be glad that the social rate is rising! – Unemployment has risen! This is not at all a proof of success in the Federal Government, but it is exactly the opposite of it! That's simple and very wrong. It's a disaster when you ask me that you just take note of unemployment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Even if you are back in the afternoon with a urgent request with the results of your summit of 1. In May, even if the ÖVP believes we have to prove that it is doing something – we are talking about employment! How does it look? Tragic enough! [[State Secretary Dolinschek: Better than in the Federal Republic!]] Mr Dolinschek, please do not always ask the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Steibl: Because you don't want to hear it!]] I would also like to say something about the Federal Republic of Germany. Employment in Austria has stagnated since 2000. We have no employees, no more employees in this country! The Federal Chancellor can still go here so often and say that there are 100,000 more, 200 000 more. It's just not right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] This is also demonstrated by the statistics if you only read them quite carefully. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Unemployment has risen, employment is stagnating in Austria, and the Federal Government is pulling its shoulders and saying: We have increased the social rate. – We all know – not the Members – that people know exactly what you have done over the past five years. It is only to be remembered what this Federal Government started in 2000 with packages on social security, in which it has taxed accident pensions, with a pension reform in 2000, with a pension reform in 2003, with a pension reform in 2004, with the result, Mr Tancsits: not that pensions are stabilised, but that pensions will be dropped by 2010 alone in the ASVG! [[Abg. Rossmann: We have corrected the mistakes!]] [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Get up!]] You know that, you can also read it. And do you know what's depressing? – That we have a Social Minister who doesn’t lose a word to all that is happening! The success is obviously that the BZÖ or the FPÖ is still in the government. For you, it may be a success that you still sit on this chair for a few months, perhaps a year or so, Mrs. Minister, but I already expect other statements from a social minister. [[pointing to the Intergovernmental Bank]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I expect her to say something about what the Social Report says, namely that the risk of poverty has increased, has not remained the same or has been reduced, but has increased! This is your responsibility as a Minister of Social Affairs. And please don't come and tell me that's not in my place. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] You have a responsibility as a Minister of Social Affairs! You'd have to say: That's not how it goes, something has to happen! – This is your responsibility, we expect from a Social Minister – also at an hour that is obviously about swerving the incense boiler.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4837	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4858	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the comments of Mr Oellinger and Mr SPÖ, I would like to refer to the book at the outset: “Social State of Austria”, published by the Chamber of Workers and Employees, ÖGB-Verlag – I believe, not ÖVP-near –, “overview of family benefits in Austria”: I quote: Austria has a very well-developed family support system in international comparison. Austria is at the forefront of all Western industrial nations with regard to its family support. – ÖGB publisher, my rulers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 2.5 million people are exempt from tax in Austria. Since 2000, family benefits have increased. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - I seem to have met you. Or haven't you read the book yet? [[Abg. Silhavy: You just don't understand!]] Since 2000, family benefits have increased by 5 percent annually. That is, 2005 – please listen! – spent 5.4 billion on family benefits, and only 4.1 billion in 1999. [[Abg. Gaál: After 30 years of SPÖ government!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And there are currently five times more full-day care places than at times of SPÖ government responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! Childcare is by the way country matter. The countries have – listen here too! – no additional funding is required in the financial compensation negotiations. So if you say that there are too many childcare places, I have to ask you: Yes, why has the red Burgenland, has Mrs Burgstaller in Salzburg, did not mayor Häupl demand more money in this direction in Vienna? - Apparently, it has to be done. Of course, there is a lot to be improved, for example the opening hours of kindergartens during the holidays. I do not fully understand why in some federal states the working time of kindergartens is adapted to the teacher system. We need to adapt kindergarten opening times to the needs of parents, especially since we have managed to do so in this government, I want to repeat that – wait a minute! – to raise the female employment rate to 63 percent. [[Demonstratetive applause with the greens and congratulations of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Oils: Nothing done!]] The EU average is 46 percent. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the great work of the mother-in-laws who are now caring for two, three or four children at home in the family association. It would be important – and there are also the countries invited to cooperate with the federal government – to create a federal framework to ensure that there is an equal payment and social security for day-mothers throughout Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of child care: In 1999, there were 80 000 karenz money recipients with an expenditure of € 580 million, and in 2005, there are 170 000 women in employment – the Minister said it – with € 1.4 billion. I am still asking you from SPÖ, in particular the Second President of the National Council Barbara Prammer, who seems to be not interested in the subject now, whether she believes that the childcare allowance is still unfair. I ask you: Is that still unfair? In the end, don't you still give the whole housewives the babysitting allowance? It is likely that the SPÖ will also call for an immediate programme for the reform of child benefits, which I do not understand, because this is a zigzag course. One cannot say on the one hand, we push the women back to the stove, and on the other hand, however, demand the extension of the termination protection to 30 plus 6 months. So something doesn't fit in there. Finally, I would like to say: Think about what you're asking, whether this can be implemented and if your own words are credible! We of the ÖVP would like to do more for the families anyway. We want to relieve mothers. We want the recognition of paternality, and we want a social mix with an initiative of our own.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4957	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4979	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! If you talk of the government parties about the future security of the welfare state of Austria, this sounds dangerous to many people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since you've been in government, there's been rising unemployment. They are responsible for record unemployment in Austria. More than 50,000 people have been affected by unemployment since 2000. The competent minister Bartenstein expects over 800 000 people affected by unemployment in 2005. They know that unemployment is a highly disseminating instrument. Unemployment is being used to put pressure on wages. Unemployment is used to push people into atypical – like minor – jobs and part-time jobs. But unemployment is also applied to how to hear from the ÖVP in order to re-think how to extend working time and shop opening times. And then Mrs Steibl dares to make herself here and say: We must have a better compatibility of work and family, the kindergartens must be open longer. Think about it! Perhaps companies should also have an obligation to the families. If you are interested in working time, you will not be able to do so after an extension of working time at the expense of workers and after wage dumping. I'll ask you to do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The fact of this policy is – I believe you, Mrs Fekter, that you are not bothering as an entrepreneur – that the people who work and who work with her work have a little bit for the economy as a whole less and less involved in this work. [[Abg. Steibl: That's a premise!]] They're distributing, but in the wrong direction, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if you're always talking about the fact that there's more jobs: A total of 30 000 full-time jobs have been reduced since 2000. Don't be so proud of the increase in women's employment rate! You know that this is related to child care. These are numbers with which you present to people an X for a U, just: [[Abg. Steibl: You're a U for an X!]] The people concerned do not believe this because they feel unemployment in their own bodies. You can also see the few opportunities or the odds they have through your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Pension reform keyword. This is an increase in what you do with the pensioners! Over 200 000 pensioners, Mr Tancsits, have a compensation allowance below the poverty line. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: No! Wrong!]] And then you're gonna make yourself up here and say, We have a distribution policy in favour of the poor. - Not at all! 662,99 €, Mr Tancsits! [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Wrong!]] You have made pension cuts by not raising pensions accordingly and the inflation rate has always eaten the money away. That's what you have to answer! In reality, pensioners today have lost income, but inflation has been particularly strained by low-priced rents and energy costs, which every person has to pay structurally. This is the policy you have to answer! And here in this house you have rejected a heating grant. This is scandalous, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The calculation period is also something where you always make yourself here and don't tell people the truth. They say very well that the provision of child care periods for the pensions of women has now been reached. You know very well that in the third year of the part-time, this bill has been eaten up and women are getting more and more part-time jobs. So don't mind the people! With this pension reform you have already decided on the next poverty trap for women. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] Since you know that too, you are mercilessly making such hardy compensation funds, a hardy compensation fund for pensions! 5.6 percent have been paid out of it, because people do not have a claim to it, but that is a grace from you when they get it. There is a family-hardening fund, a family hospice compensation fund. It is, in part, a bit grotesque, which word wonders and creations you perform there. But essentially everything goes on the following: People have no rights but depend on a policy of alms! You're doing exactly the same with this care check now. The Kärntner head of state and sometimes also Ms. Scheucher move through the country and distribute alms instead of creating legal claims and developing existing rights. Ladies and gentlemen! The child care money you praise so much – you yourself have said that in five years we will have 2 billion € deficit in the family compensation fund – is a performance on pump, although you are not supposed to do business on pump. That's another eye-retardant. At some point the money will have to be repaid, the question is who will pay it then. In conclusion: The enthusiasm for what your achievements are about is limited. According to your own social report, more than a million people are at risk of poverty in this rich Austria. That's a shame for this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5109	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5146	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Oellinger, Mr Vergestnich and Mr Silhavy, it is difficult for you, I understand, because opposition work is hard work, but that you keep trying to make things bad here, although you are primarily responsible for such a negative development in Austria, is remarkable. [[Abg. Silhavy: Doubling unemployment rates!]] You have led the Austrian state to the poverty line. You left 174 billion € in debt. It's supposed to be known to the people once. Where did you bring this money? 7 billion € is paid annually by the taxpayer in Austria. Chiefly responsible: socialist Federal Chancellor, Socialist Minister of Social Affairs or Socialist Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Vergestnich, who you speak about the poverty line or criticise the pensions! Where have you been in the last 30 years? Why did the social partners not increase wages accordingly? You are primarily responsible for this generation, which is now in retirement. Low wages – low pensions! You're in the glass house and you're throwing stones. Not with us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Vergestnich, you criticise our Minister of Social Affairs for the heavy work regulations. Where are the proposals from the ÖGB? - Silence in the forest! On and on, you'd be there to work. [[Abg. Who's in government?]] – Mr. Schopf, don't get upset, otherwise you'll get a heart attack! – 174 billion € leave behind debts! Mrs. Steibl showed you the book of the ÖGB – there are also people who write the truth in the publishing house of the ÖGB –: Please, get the book, you will also receive a special prize if you are ÖGB members! Read – think – talk! The book shows how the social state of Austria looks out, and that has not been written by the Max Walch, but it has been published by the ÖGB publisher. It is a question of unemployment, and that is where the SPÖ would be required. ==References== In May there was an employment summit. I have looked at the SPÖ programme – I will have the opportunity to speak on this topic this afternoon – and I have to say to you: Your proposals are 70 percent complete! You don't have any new ones, there's nothing there. In the last 30 years, you have shown how to make inadequate economic policies, and have left us a huge debt. Or: the situation of black workers, anti-fraud law. Why did you not agree when we passed a anti-fraud law here in this House? Where were you all? You're always yelling, but you're not doing anything! You may not even want the companies that deserve it to be punished that the application period at the local health insurance fund is reduced, that out of the way, prison sentences for fraudulent companies are also possible. Next topic: the apprenticeship situation. Also the SPÖ, the ÖGB, the AK would be required to do something for the youth on and on. In those professional groups where there is a shortage of skilled workers, particularly in the craft sector, the ÖGB could also start an advertising campaign and say: It must be no shame whether I am now an electrician or a mechanic or a constructionist! Make a promotion, you are supposed to be the extra-partial ÖGB! I don't notice anything; except for SPÖ advertising and negative advertising, nothing can be seen. You've been far away when it comes to pension harmonisation. If the SPÖ had the last word, it would look bad for the Austrians. We secured the system: It has not changed anything in the Night and Heavy Workers Act, it has not changed anything in the ease of access to disability pension. We have extended the “Hackler regulation”, long-term regulation, until 2010; until 2007 zero deductions; those who have already retired in 2004 and paid more than 5 percent tax have even recovered. Child money, finishing new and much more. It's still a lot to do. Therefore, to the address of the opposition: Consent to positive things and not always polemize!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5234	The last speaker is Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5256	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Future security in the social state Austria in five minutes, this is not without a challenge for a topic. I have been thinking yesterday about how this debate is going to take place today, and unfortunately I have not been deceived in the assessment. It has run the way debates in here unfortunately run very often, because the representatives of the government parties explain with more or less strong results of the incense boiler why everything is good, what is happening in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Say the ÖGB!]] I'm not one of those who say nothing happens in Austria. The book on social benefits at a glance, already shown by Mr Steibl, has been taken with me today. There are a number of social benefits in Austria – thank God they exist – but if you limit your political task to saying: That's all we have, that's all very great, we're the best!, then we won't go on in Austria. If everyone before you thought the same, then we would not have these social benefits that we have today, then the situation would be like 200 years ago. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What always affects me – today relatively few averages have come, usually here in the house very often argues with averages –: You're in some numbers at home, but you haven't seen the problems and difficulties of the people in Austria for a long time. Mrs Haubner said that the risk of poverty had fallen. I do not know, Mrs Minister, what you have recognized in the Social Report. In fact, today, for example, a third of the single parents are at risk of poverty; 31 percent are exactly. In the 2001/2002 Social Report, the figure was 16.7%. Mrs Minister, the risk of poverty in Austria has increased dramatically – please take note! I don't know how you can work politically if you close your eyes to these problems we have. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They are always very proud of it and have also mentioned today that the care money has been raised. – By 2 per cent, Ms. Minister, by 22 per cent after eight years! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Nothing at all for eight years! Why don't you talk about it?]] Do you know what that means when you want to buy care? The cost of care has increased to a very different extent. Those who need care don't get the same as they did eight years ago. That means that this is not an improvement, but a step back – unfortunately! – which you reach by non-adjustment of the care allowance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Research and education, an essential prerequisite for this social state of Austria. - What's going on? Education expenditure is falling. In the field of research, a lot has been done, but we are sparse. On Monday evening, your former Commissioner, Fischler, spoke in Vorarlberg, clearly clarifying: Research expenditure in Austria would have to be twice as high to make us almost competitive. That's what your ex-Commissioner Fischler says. Please, listen to such voices too! Unemployment rates are increasing. In part, there are developments that are not in our hands, but they are also in our hands if, in the field of training, more investment would be invested if labour were to be taxed off, such as through our model of an environmental-social tax reform, or even if work would be redistributed. I do not know if you are aware that 6.3 percent of male self-employed people in Austria have a regular working time of over 60 hours per week. That is 117 000 people, and that is when you divide the number by two, almost 60 000 full-time jobs. It would be possible to distribute work differently, but you don't. No measures will be taken in this direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last point that seems to me to be very important; it was also the point: Tax reform as key. - I'll give you all the right. The workers pay huge shares by wage tax, we all pay by VAT. However, as far as property tax is concerned, Austria has fallen from 17.4 percent to 13.4 percent of government revenue in the final light – only 2.7 percent of revenue – and the income tax has fallen over the last 30 years. In the same period, wage taxes have almost doubled from 18 to 30 percent. The money's here, pick it up! Our social state can be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5332	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[10:12:13]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5356	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text:
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5534	The debate on points 7 to 10, 11 to 21, 22 to 25, 26 to 33 and 34 and 35 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5555	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure before the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed motion for a resolution 600/A (E) tabled at the same time by Mrs Neugebauer, colleagues on the German Federal Government's employment offensive. Under the Rules of Procedure, this urgent request will be discussed at 3 p.m. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5577	In addition, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigation committee on the procurement of fighter aircraft. The debate on this has not been called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be taken after completion of the agenda. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5607	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free Parliament Club 96 minutes, as well as Green 104 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debate from 10.05 a.m. to 1 p.m., transmitted by the ORF: First of all, one speech per group of 12 minutes, then one word by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany at 15 minutes, then one word per group of 7 minutes, then another one by 7 minutes, then one by 7 minutes by a member of the government, then one word by 5 minutes by each of the political groups, and another by one word by 5 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office's speaking time will be equally distributed to the political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak. Furthermore, there is agreement that actual corrections will only be called after the television broadcast. The House shall decide on this time-limit. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to be a sign of approval. – The consent shall be given unanimously. That is why we are doing so. [[10:15:25]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (851 d. B._Other Organiser Treaty on a Constitution for Europe, including Protocols, Annexes and Final Act (919, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5656	We now reach 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. His speaking time is 12 minutes. – Mr Magister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5684	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr President. We now advise and adopt the new European Constitution in the House with broad approval. This is an important one, like some of my historical step for Europe, for the political future of our continent, for the social future of our continent, for the economic future of our continent and for the social perspective of the citizens – but not only of the continent of Europe, but also of our country, our home country Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In these days Austria also commemorates the history of Europe. 60 years ago, the regime of atrocities of the Nazi dictatorship and the Second World War had ended. But at the time, many people in Europe, including our homeland, asked themselves the question: How will it continue? What's the matter with you? the perspective for us and for our children after these horrors of World War II? On this question, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a clear answer from the responsible politicians of the continent, the countries of Europe. You said: The answer to the war in the sense of “Never again war!” lies in the strategy of the united Europe, of the united Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The answer therefore means: Europe when we talk about peace and want a peaceful development of our continent. ==References== May, just a few days ago, the day of Europe was celebrated. ==References====External links== May outline the perspective of the united Europe in a big speech, and we can be proud that an Austrian has also stood by the cradle of this thought. The Austrian Coudenhove-Calergi developed the perspective of the united Europe as a vision at the beginning of the last century. But with the united Europe, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, then EC, not all questions were answered. After the Second World War, a separation, a border, a grave passed through Europe. Not all people were lucky to be able to live in the free united Europe. No, part of our continent is under the dictatorship of Communism, people have suffered. Also on this question, ladies and gentlemen: How do we get to the united Europe, how do we overcome the separation?, there is and there was a clear answer, and it also said: Europe. It is gratifying – and at times I do not think that this is at all appropriate to the dimension of the subject with which Europe is being discussed – that in our responsibility we have the past 1. May of the year 2004 where Europe has been able to overcome borders, so that today a truly united Europe is the perspective, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Europe was thus the answer to the question of people after crossing borders. But what is the question of citizens, who are often asked to us, especially in a small country? – What is the challenge of the competitive situation that global globalisation poses? Yes, we must not shut our eyes to the fact that globalisation leads to new competitive situations. But also the answer to this question, to this legitimate question of citizens, is clear and clear. The answer to the fears of globalisation is: Europe. Why? – Because we are only able to compete with the giants of the world through the continence of the continent as a small country. Consider, for example, the development in China or India or in the United States. The answer to the fears of the people in relation to globalisation is: Europe. Europe is therefore also the perspective that we ourselves must pursue offensively and must live offensively. That does not mean, however, that we can speak out in Europe when it comes to the country's own position. The competitive position of Austria also depends on our own ability and on our will to make positive changes, to implement reforms that we have a strong Austrian position in the concert of strong Europe – and that is our goal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] But the people, the citizens, are also concerned, and one should also address them, such as when it comes to security. Especially in recent years, there have been developments in Europe that concern people, such as the question of organised crime and drug crime, the question of the cross-country dimension. Let's open this up. Here too, the question of citizens is right: How can we create more security? – The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is quite clear: Europe. We are no longer able to deal with everything ourselves when it comes to organised crime, we need European cooperation on security issues. But, of course, it also needs to be seen in terms of the prospects of a medium-term-oriented asylum policy in Europe. Europe also needs it in everyday life – think of consumer protection, food safety, animal welfare – I could list a lot now, up to environmental policy. Austria and Europe need this perspective of agreement. We need a strong Europe! Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is quite clear: A strong Europe needs a constitution! In the long term, and in the long run, we can only deal with the challenges that exist in the world – I have already said it – if you think of the USA, China, India – if we strengthen Europe's agreement. And the new European Constitution is one of the key contributions that Europe can actually fulfil the task that citizens expect from Europe. That is why we say about the Austrian People's Party out of firm conviction, out of responsibility for Austria and as a glowing European, yes to the European Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But we must not be content with this, but we must also take criticism of the citizens seriously here and ask ourselves the question: Is this new European Constitution also the answer to the existing criticism of people? It is criticised, in my opinion quite rightly, that Europe is there or there too civil. It is precisely the new European Constitution that gives answers. In the future, 95 percent of the legislative acts will be decided with the European Parliament and the European Parliament. There is the European Citizens' Initiative, and there is of course also in the new Constitution – very interesting! – the eligibility of individual rights from fundamental rights at the European Court of Justice. The European Constitution is closer to the citizen and brings Europe closer to the citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A second criticism is that Europe is impenetrable – and the European Constitution is also the right answer: The institutions are clearer, we have a European foreign minister, so that Europe speaks with one voice, and we have also regulated the institutions very clearly and transparently with regard to decision-making, the European Council and the Commission. Europe is being criticized for being too centralistic. To this end, the new Constitution says: The principle of subsidiarity is the first time ever enshrined in this Constitution. What does that mean? – Europe should only do what Europe can, and the regions and the Member States should be given responsibility for what can be done better there. And I think that is right, ladies and gentlemen: a federalist Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is criticised that, for example, the involvement of national parliaments has so far been too low. Yes, the new constitution gives us more opportunities to participate, here in the National Council, for example, through the subsidiarity action. I think it is right that this perspective is given, a perspective that treats the big and the small states alike. There is no difference between large and small in the European Constitution, but a scale: the same right for all! It is strengthening the social dimension. And it is also important that the new fundamental rights become directly effective, ladies and gentlemen. The social clause, called for by Austria, affects all political dimensions, including the role of social partners. And we have maintained – I thank both the members of the Convention and the Federal Government – that Austrian concerns, such as the safeguarding of water, the provision of services in the communities, are well regulated for Austrian citizens, ladies and gentlemen. On the criticism that is appropriate, for example, that neutrality would be abolished. I can only say that is simple and simply wrong. That the State Treaty is abolished is simply and simply wrong. In the case of critics of the European Constitution, I often feel that they do not criticise the Constitution, but actually mean something quite different, but then they should say what they mean. We want Europe, we want a strong Europe, ladies and gentlemen, with this new constitution! Finally, I would like to bring you a quote from Alois Mock, who wrote: A new era begins with the implementation of the Constitution for Europe. It strengthens our ability to act inside and outside. The regulatory framework defines much more clearly than previously the competences of the regions, the states and the Union. It will make Europe more accessible to its citizens, more capable of decision-making as a political Union, and more indisputable as a voice in the people's concert. - Quote. That is nothing to add, ladies and gentlemen, this is our Europe we want! We therefore agree with our responsibility of this Constitution and, of course, we also have the prospect of creating European rules on the game for European referendums on European issues in the future. That unites us, and that's our goal!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5866	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Gusenbauer. His speaking time is also 12 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5887	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you see the pictures of the Second World War and the end of the Second World War, in view of the commemorations that have taken place in the last few days and will still take place, you can of course ask yourself the question: What happened in these 60 years? And: What's different? I agree with Mr Molterer: The European Union was the answer to the Second World War, and fortunately it is a very successful answer. [[We welcome SPÖ and ÖVP as well as representatives of the Greens and the Liberals.]] It is a successful answer because it has led to peace and security in that part of Europe, which belongs to the European Union or has previously been part of the EC. We have experienced over the past 15 years that in parts of Europe, which were not part of the European Union, there has been no peace and no security, but rather war, persecution, genocide and incredible human rights violations. If one compares the Europe of security with stability and that of Europe, which has also been shaken in recent decades, such as the countries in the Balkans, then I believe that the most successful peace project ever in the history of our continent is the European agreement and the European Union. We can be proud of this, and we can be glad that we have this European agreement. [[We welcome SPÖ and ÖVP as well as representatives of the Greens and the Liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many will wonder why, despite these undisputed successes of the European Union, as well as the full enlargement and the introduction of the euro, there is such a sustainable scepticism about Europe. If the European Union has been so successful, why are more and more people increasingly skeptical, especially in Austria? – I think we as the responsible person have to deal with the causes of this scepticism. I believe that one of the main reasons is that people in Austria, Mr Molterer, do not feel that Europe is the answer to globalisation, but that many people have the impression that the effects of globalisation in Europe will be intensified. This impression insecures many people because many have had the hope that Europe is an instrument for making globalisation more humane and social. But their experience is different. The question must be asked whether everything that is formulated at the level of absolute truths also by the EU Commission, particularly concerning deregulations and liberalisations, does not sometimes lead to people in Europe becoming more insecure in terms of the project as a whole, especially when the hopes of success do not arise. I don't think we should be surprised that people, even if we say: The euro is a very essential instrument for European economic policy!, with the right impression that the employment issue does not really go on, that income does not really rise, but rather sink there and there, and that then there are contexts made, given that many have the impression that Europe is moving away from its own goals and also from the promises there and there. I believe that this increasing scepticism has nothing to do with too much Europe, but actually with too little Europe, because Europe has not yet been able to fulfill those promises that many people have associated with this project. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] By the way, I believe that this also applies to European democracy. Because what's the main problem? – If you are satisfied with a government in Austria, you can confirm it at the next election. If one is dissatisfied with one government, one can elect one government at the next election and replace it with another. The European problem, however, is that people do not know how, if they are dissatisfied with European policy, they will get rid of a European government that does not exist and replace it with another. They can participate in the elections to the European Parliament – this is important, but everyone knows it is not decisive about a European government. The European institutional system – there are good reasons why it is so – divides responsibility so widely that the normal interplay of democracy at European level is not possible. I believe that if one wants to see a stronger identification of the individual and the individual with the European project at European level, then we must eventually come to a European democracy that works in such a way as at national level that the individual citizen has the opportunity to elect or confirm a government. [[Abg. Scheibner: But it can always only be Parliament!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] I know that this is not a simple matter, but if you want to take up this dissatisfaction, you have to get there. We must ask ourselves the following question: If a person in Austria is not in agreement with or dissatisfied with politics or criticises the government, he will still not come to the idea of questioning Austria. If, on the other hand, there is criticism of Europe, there is criticism of European policy and if people are dissatisfied with European policy, then it is strange that Europe and the European Union are always called into question. And if you do not want to have that, because you think the European Union is important and indispensable, you must also create at European level a mechanism by which people can express their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with their policies. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Sburny.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that this EU Constitution represents an important step forward, but many of Europe's basic problems are not answered by the European Constitution. Of course, there are many who say that the European Constitution could have been better. I am of this opinion, too. I also believe that the proposal that the Convention has drawn up at European level was better than the draft before us today. Only: The alternative we have to decide on today is not this Constitution or a better constitution, but the alternative that lies ahead of us: either this Constitution or the continuation of the so-called Treaty Europe with an even greater uncertainty. Therefore, I believe, not the question between the good and the better, but the question arises between what you can get now and what else you would have. And if I am put before this alternative, I must say that this European Constitution is all better than the so-called “Contract Europe” so we should agree to this European Constitution together today. [[We welcome SPÖ and ÖVP as well as representatives of the Greens and the Liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is also the discussion about why this Constitution is not a Christian democratic, not a social democratic, not a liberal, not a green constitution. This is the debate which is being held very strongly in France. I believe that the Austrian federal constitution is also unconstitutional. And a European Constitution cannot meet a particular political current in Europe, but must provide a framework for political shaping. That is why we must not arouse the illusion that the decision of this Constitution will already have better policies in Europe. But the EU Constitution provides the opportunity and presupposes that there will be better policies in Europe in the future. That is why this Constitution is not a guarantee but a chance. The last question you have to ask yourself is probably the: How does Europe look, should the Constitution not be adopted? Let us imagine the situation in Europe: Europe would be entering one of its most difficult phases and likely crises. I believe that in view of the challenges facing us and before Europe today, we should simply not afford to get Europe into a crisis, but we should try to make Europe more effective. Of course, it would be much better if all the people of Europe could have participated in a vote across Europe in order to carry this European Constitution together. I think it was a serious mistake that one cannot agree on such a procedure in the European Union, because that would have been the strongest signal – following the model that an Austrian constitution must have the support of the Austrian people, but that a European Constitution should have the support of all European peoples. That is why, I think, a great opportunity has been lost, because many of these processes, which exist today in individual countries of Europe, have little to do with the European Constitution and more about the individual state of the population in relation to the just rulers. To be honest, it may well be that in one country or another there is a referendum against the Constitution, although people do not actually have such a problem with the constitution, but perhaps with their government. The problem is in the end only: The Constitution is gone, but the government that people do not want remains. That's why I'd say: We in Austria vote on what we have to vote on: on governments and parliaments in elections and on the European Constitution in Parliament today! The Social Democracy will say yes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5978	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He too has a speaking time of 12 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5999	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! When we discuss EU policy here, but also outside Parliament, the question is always asked: Why is the scepticism of the population so high, although this project of European unification is such a good and important one? Perhaps there is not enough communication between this European Union, the institutions of the European Union and the people of Europe, and perhaps there is too little need in the European Union to carry out this communication, to keep more contact, to explain why different projects in Europe and in the European Union are so necessary. And why do you view it as so little necessary to carry out this communication? From my point of view, it is simply because, from the structure of Europe, in the European Union, with the exception of the elections to the European Parliament with a very limited impact on the Union itself, it is hardly necessary for European projects to obtain a majority in the population, in the awareness of the population of Europe. If there were this need – and if we agree that there are directly democratic elements in this European Union as well – then, I believe, the awareness of politicians in Europe, but also the bureaucrats in Europe, would certainly change with regard to the opinion of the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we continue – and will also express this in a request – to support the fact that, for important projects in the European Union and, of course, for constitutional issues, there should be the instrument of a European referendum in all Member States. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately – unfortunately! – has so far not succeeded in implementing this, but you have to realize it with all the emphasis. Mr Gusenbauer, I do not think that your model would help if you say that you should now also have a European government that is directly elected or legitimated with all rights and obligations. That would be the union of the European Union, the European state. This is not my model, nor, as I believe, the model of my group, nor the model that the population in Europe wants. I believe that it is precisely an advantage of this European Constitution, which we are discussing today, that we do not want to have the European state, where everything is decided in Brussels, but, of course, that we have made a commitment to the European Union, with sovereign countries, which can also implement their rights. – This is for us the model of a future Europe: sovereign states that define which tasks are to be carried out in a meaningful manner, but also with the involvement of the population, and no European state based on the model of the United States of America. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that it would be more necessary to highlight this aspect of this European integration much, much more, from all the security policy aspects that have also been discussed. Unfortunately, safety will soon become self-evident, but it is not self-evident! Security, peace and freedom must always be fought again and again. This has, as I believe, been one of these important and necessary projects of European integration. We thought a few days ago of the end of the war 60 years ago. A war – still a world war – is probably one of the most terrible forms of human action. And then, like after every other war, the confession was, one must prevent further wars. At that time there were some important decisions: the establishment of the United Nations in June 1945, but also the beginning of the European unification process, the realization that these centuries-old tensions, enmitys between European nations and nationalities must belong to the past. And one has known that this will be a lengthy, decades-long process. From small beginnings, from purely economic communities, economic links have to date come to this European Union, where we are today for the first time – for the first time! – in the history of Europe, military conflicts have become impossible between at least 25 European countries, not only today but also in the future. [[We welcome the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is the great progress, which is the great thing about this European agreement, that we can say to people: Wars have become impossible for members of the European Union! The United Nations also had this postulate: War as a means of politics is illegal under international law. But how far has the UN, the United Nations, been removed from the European Union's concept of success in security policy, that conflicts between United Nations member states have become impossible! I believe that we should put this much more in the foreground, because the security, freedom and peace are probably the highest good of a human being, a good that must be preserved. This will also be a challenge for the future, and this is also an aspect that will influence an important area in this European Constitution. And it is positive that this European Union is now also committed to working together in the area of disaster aid, to working together in the defence of terrorism, and, of course, to the need for a responsibility of peacekeeping and peacekeeping measures of the European Union outside the territory of the Union itself. We cannot close our eyes to the problem in the Balkans or in other areas! – There has also been a lengthy process of awareness-raising, even in the nineties of the last century, until one has finally come to say in the European Union: Yes, we also need to ensure that in these crisis regions, security, peace and freedom can be guaranteed for the people there. This is a concern for humanitarian reasons, but it is also self-interested, because uncertainty, instability in other regions comes in a changed form – whether in the form of crime, whether in the form of terrorism or in the form of migration movements – also in Europe and thus also in Austria. And this is also a clear commitment to this common responsibility in the Foreign and security policy, which we should continue to support. Of course, there are also deficits in this Constitution, in addition to the successes that we do not euphorically, but certainly do – Austria has also contributed to this, too – parliamentarians: that the principle of unanimity could remain in important matters, that a catalogue of fundamental rights should also be established for freedom and human rights in Europe, so that in a national state a parliamentary group or a party cannot order sanctions against a country, if it does not fit a democratically elected government, as we had in Austria in 2000. That too has become impossible by this constitution. And the institutions too are at least newly regulated. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But we also need to address the deficits. The Commissioner's solution has not gone to 100 percent in our sense. There is a great deal of criticism of how the European Public Prosecutor's Office is regulated. Finally – I have already said it – the democratic deficits have failed to include direct democracy instruments in this European Constitution, such as European referendums. But, in this respect, I am giving Mr Gusenbauer's right, no constitution would be the worst in response to the enlargement of the European Union and also in response to the questions of the future. This Constitution will also be a dynamic process, and we will also have to work from the date of entry into force to ensure that the deficits in this European Constitution can be eliminated. There has been a discussion here in Austria about a referendum on this European Constitution for a few days now – surprisingly late. I am therefore saying “surprisingly late” because constitutional experts are, of course, discussing whether it is an overall change or not and whether it is necessary to hold a referendum. I say: I would have been right – and I would be right in the future too – if the European population could vote on such projects across the EU. And it is not good that there are some countries that vote, and others do not. In any doubt, I could have imagined that in Austria too, we are conducting a national referendum. We must note that there is no majority in Austria for this project of a national referendum. But if you talk about it today, it'll be too late. For one thing the federal constitution clearly tells us: that no referendum can be carried out through a contract of international law itself. That is why, in 1994, we voted not on the accession treaty itself in a referendum, but on an authorisation law. And the empowerment law for this Constitution of Europe has decided Parliament with little – unfortunately with little – media attention in March of this year, ladies and gentlemen. There the reality is another. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Mr Wittmann, if we say here today, yes, but EU law is now breaking national law, then we must point out that this has been the case since the day we became a member of the European Union. [[Abg. Oils: Unfortunately!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen! There's already the question to ask: Why did the people not at that time be informed of all the advantages and disadvantages, of all the consequences of this accession to the European Union? Why, when it was really about making a clear decision – yes or no to this way – in Europe, on various things, including on the impact on neutrality – and this did not have a massive impact on neutrality in the mid-1990s, up to the constitutional novel in 1998, why did it not be fully informed at that time? This question must also be addressed and answered, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr Wittmann and Ollinger.]] We are in favour of discussing all the criticisms publicly and trying to find appropriate solutions, but then, while considering all the advantages and disadvantages, we are clearly committed to Europe, to this peace project of a common, peaceful Europe. And if we take all the strength into account that we can also use these instruments of direct democracy, then this peace union will also be a democratic Europe – and that should be in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6093	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. His speaking time is also 12 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6116	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have long dealt with the advantages and shortcomings of this draft as a European Constitution. And we have come to the conclusion that a thorough consideration of the advantages that are undoubtedly present and some shortcomings which are also contained in the text or what is not contained in the text appears to be a clear yes to this Constitutional Treaty, for the following reasons which I would like to briefly outline. By the way: This Treaty on a Constitution for Europe is quite a black one. It covers printed, I think, almost 500 pages, the actual text part maybe 300. In comparison, the Austrian Constitution seems slender, even more elegant. But we also have 85 years of tradition, the EU not yet. So, from my point of view, what are the main benefits of this Constitution? First: In fact, European democracy is clearly strengthened in its foundations. This is evidenced by the fact that the only European institution directly elected, the European Parliament, is clearly strengthened in its right as a legislator and is much more involved in legislation than before. This was an essential criticism of the Greens in 1995 – but not just the Greens – that the Union's democratic approach was left more than to be desired and that it was really rudimentary at the time. At the same time, of course, violence separation in the European Union will be significantly improved as a basis for a functioning democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, and this is also important in a Europe that currently has 25 Member States and is about to be 27 or 30: The Union's capacity to act will be significantly improved. This shows, for example, that the principle of unanimity between all Member States in order to reach a decision is clearly reduced in favour of a decision by so-called qualified majority. This is a double majority of the Member States on the one hand and a majority of the European population on the other, represented by them. This alone is a progress towards the Treaty of Nice. I believe that there were clear voting weighting rules in the European Council, which did not convince anyone. You can always talk about details, but the principle of the double majority is transparent, understandable and comprehensible. Thirdly, and this is an essential point: Part II of this new European Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, is a truly sensational success once you imagine how few other states in the world, nation-states, simple states or any state alliance have incorporated such a Charter of Fundamental Rights into their constitution. And this Charter of Fundamental Rights not only concerns classical liberal freedom and fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression, freedom of the media, freedom of the art, freedom of science and so on, freedom rights which, in some way, are intended to protect citizens from the state, but also shows substantial progress in the field of social fundamental rights. [[It is a pleasure to the Greens as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] This is also important in so far as it is criticised by various sides that this Constitution has a neoliberal touchpage and the like. I can't understand. In the Austrian Constitution, for example, the fundamental social rights are not as enshrined in the European Constitution. That alone speaks against the argument of the neoliberal impact. There are, of course, points which are not to our satisfaction, and this applies to every political party and every citizen and every citizen of that country who is seriously dealing with them. From our point of view, some formulations in the field of military and security policy are particularly sensitive in Part III of the Constitutional Treaty or in the ecological field, despite some very well formulated targets, the unfortunate question of the Euratom Treaty. Now it can be said that it has already been a huge success that the Euratom Treaty will not, as originally planned, become part of the Constitution – that would have made it very difficult for us to agree to the European Constitution, if it had been possible at all – but will at least be located outside the Treaty, so that it is at least theoretically possible to be a member of the European Union without joining the Euratom Treaty. So, in total, I mean that the foundations for European democracy are actually laid here in an comprehensible, concrete way. And this will make Europe, the European Union and many other countries in the world something different. I don't want to say: The example is because I don't want to be a model for someone, but it's already something very beautiful that comes about without becoming all too euphoric, as Mr Scheibner has said. However, I would also like to remind you that the alternative is not any ideal constitution that we all had written differently, so the Treaty of Nice, that is, the Treaty of Nice, that is, the Treaty of Nice, whose shortcomings in which the debate on this Constitution has only been raised. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There you have to remember: When the Treaty of Nice was adopted four years ago, the frustration over this treaty was so great, across Europe that the European Convention was only set up after that and finally an agreement on this Constitutional Treaty was reached last year. It is precisely this miserable work that Europe would fall back on if the Constitutional Treaty, as it is now present, were not to be adopted. If one remembers briefly how often this was on the tip and how for a time, for example, Poland and Spain blocked the Constitutional Treaty, partly with – how should I say? – an emotional exaggeration, which is very rare for one in politics, namely, the slogan “Nizza or Death!” as a battle call for the Treaty of Nice and against the draft Convention for a European Constitution, and as it has only become possible to talk about the Constitution after new elections have taken place in Spain and that part of the blockade has fallen away, so that our friends in Poland have been able to think of something better, so to speak: In view of all these difficulties, it would be very easy to say no to this Constitution and to think that we would then get a better one. No, no, no, If we do not accept this, we will sink into depression and we will not get a new, let alone better constitution at all in the foreseeable future, but will somehow have to go through with the miserable Treaty of Nice. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ Members and the Agg. Dr. Khol.]] In many discussions with critics of this Constitution, I have found something strange: how much importance is interpreted in such a constitution. Certainly, it is important, it contains rules of play, and, in particular, the European Constitution also contains important targets, but sometimes one has the impression that the decision on a constitutional work would have arrived at its end, and that everything that does not stand in it, so to speak, cannot be a matter of daily and annual policy. I find this performance absurd! The Austrian Constitution is about 85 years old in its core, and since then we have not pursued any policy: in the field of ecology, in the military sector, in all sensitive questions, in the social field et cetera? This applies, of course, to the national level as well as to the European level. A European Constitution cannot be the answer to everything and everyone as much as a national constitution. I do not think it is surprising that this compromise has been reached in the negotiations of 25 Member States, but it is amazing that something has come out at all. May I remember the fate of the Austrian Convention for a second. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: No!]] Just like that, you want to think, within a national unit, so to speak, don't you? However, we have not come to a consensus – “not yet!” Mr. Molterer says – but the 25 member countries with 21 languages and quite different constitutional traditions are very good. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not yet!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Optimizism is announced!]] May I - I look at my watch - only say one about the Federal Government's information policy: Yes, she was miserable! Yes, the Greens have called for the public of the Constitutional Committee, for example when talking to constitutional judges. They were voted down by ÖVP and FPÖ. Very sad! Yesterday I received this interesting brochure by post. [[The speaker will keep a brochure entitled “The Constitution for Europe” up to date.]] It is not made bad at all, I find, relatively neutral, although German Chancellor Schüssel and Dr. Plassnik smile at us at the front, and very informative. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I almost threw them away because it was involved with all kinds of other advertising “glump”. That is something, after all, but it is the day before the vote in Parliament! – the citizens feel clearly planted. But by the way, information policy: I welcome the direct transfer of the ORF on such and other issues. This allows the seers to take a direct picture of the work in this house. Unfortunately, they often have a bad picture of this work. We hear complaints over and over again, like: People are not attentive! You're holding meetings! You're not here at all, and so on. Now I ask all the seers to take into account: You always have a neckline, maybe half an hour, maybe two; I don't know how long you're looking at it. We usually sit here for 12 hours, 16 hours. It is physically impossible to be attentive and present here all the time. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] - So much for it. All 183 Members try to be honest, I think – but a coffee needs to be made in between. [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] Last point: Unfortunately, in recent times the signs have increased that individual leading managers of the ORF, especially in the field of news and information broadcasts, are not oriented to journalistic quality criteria, but to certain, unilateral party political aspects. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My final sentence, Madam President: The Greens – and I hope others too – will not accept the objectivity and thus the credibility of the ORF. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6261	The next item is the speech by Mr Bundeskanzler. Speech time: 15 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6282	High house! Madam President. I should like to thank the Bureau and the Presidential Conference for the fact that the vote on this so important European constitutional work has been taken at a very important time, namely: ==References== April 2005 it was 60 years ago that the Second Republic was founded, and next Sunday it will be celebrated that 50 years ago the Austrian State Treaty was signed – and now we are putting into this very time the decision on this European Constitution. This has a deep sense: The State Treaty has freed us from the occupation, and this European Constitution frees us from being involved in a social, peaceful and economically strong Europe. And this is an important message of the present day! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Europe has not been built in one day, neither has Rome. The European Union was founded in Rome, and this Treaty has also been signed in Rome. It is, therefore, Roman treaties, which describe a process for many decades. We are not at the end of this process, but we are at a preliminary peak, and I believe that, as the previous speakers have stressed, we can say: From Victor Hugo to Coudenhove-Kalergi, to the famous Churchill speech and then the establishment of the European Economic Community, European history has been a history of success, peace and stability for 60 years. And it is very positive that we can also participate in this story. This Constitutional Treaty has not been invented now, but it goes back to December 2001, when we decided in Laeken Giscard D’Estaing as President of the Convention and set up a convention of 105 personalities who then prepared for almost two years of this constitutional work. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website The Constitutional Treaty was completed in July of the following year 2003. As early as October 2003, we founded the Intergovernmental Conference in Rome. At the time, Benita Ferrero-Waldner was on the road with me, who I would like to thank here for her work. Finally, we did on 29 October. October 2004 may sign this Constitutional Treaty: the Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik and myself. We have been granted the authorisation in two stages with a Federal Constitutional Act, unanimously – at this point thanks to the National Council, to all four political groups here in the House – and today we are adopting this Constitutional Treaty. All those who think that more information should have been given have obviously overlooked the fact that we made public events before the beginning of the Convention, especially with the youth. We debated publicly for hours before the start of the Intergovernmental Conference. We held several discussions here in the House all day, before and after each European Council, had public meetings of the main European committee and then discussed this Treaty several times. And I say, I am also proud of this work! Mr Van der Bellen! Ursula Plassnik and I have It smiles very neutrally – as do the 1.2 million households. It is not supposed to be a propaganda brochure, but a pure information about what is in it in the 200 pages of the real contract; we can ignore the attached protocols quietly. In my opinion, it is important that this Treaty really sets the foundations for the citizens of Europe: Every European citizen has a passport, not only an Austrian passport, but also a European passport. With this new constitution, every citizen is given European citizens' rights. It can, for example, encourage its rights in any European country. He can choose. He has the opportunity to use consular assistance in third countries, which can be a very important point especially in the case of a flood wave in Southeast Asia. He's part of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, he can sue them. It can pursue the Union and its institutions up to the European Court of Justice and it can warn that its law will be implemented. I really think this is an essential step that will actually bring us into an open, civil and democratic Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have the opportunity for the first time to launch European citizens' initiatives. Think of topics that can be significant, such as animal welfare, which we have also brought into the Constitution as a target catalogue – a subject that has moved us very much in Austria. There is now the possibility of forcing the institutions of the Union to deal with such issues by means of a European citizens' initiative. Think of transport policy, environmental issues, food safety and many other issues that are pressing on there! Or remember that in the event of procedural defects, discrimination or abuse of the institutions of the European Ombudsman can be called on! Who says that this Constitution contains too little democracy, too few elements of democracy, should also remember that for the first time we are granting the European Parliament powerful rules of co-determination – something that is, of course, for us in Austria, but not yet in all European countries. Almost 100 per cent – I believe 95 or 96 per cent – of all European laws are in the future only if the European Parliament is involved in the legislation. Ministers must, when they meet in councils and pass laws, publicly meet in this case. There is also the possibility of subjecting the European Council to the control of the European Court of Justice. National parliaments are being strengthened. You will be given the opportunity to determine whether you have any right to complain or to pull the brake if, for example, in questions of subsidiarity, the small units are threatened in any way. So I think that these are precisely the elements to be shown for those critics of European reality who say: That's still not perfect enough! – Yes, I think so, but at the same time say: This means that there are elements in this Constitution that have never been valid so far! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We Austrians, like any other Member State, have, of course, also mentioned some national issues which the public should know: the anchoring of minority protection, the explicit statement of the principle of equality between men and women, the anchoring of the principle that all Member States are the same, that, especially in the case of staff, such as the European Council Presidency, the Commission Presidency, the Foreign Minister, there should not be any specific features for large or certain regions, but that all really must be taken into account in terms of balance. Animal welfare, which I have already mentioned, animal welfare, price stability, border regions: Everything from our point of view important issues, which are also included in this Treaty. There are some critics – and I am grateful that Professor Van der Bellen pointed out – who say that the Treaty is neoliberal. If so, why does the European trade union movement support this Treaty unanimously and fully? It really sets out the most important principles for the Social Union, such as that of full employment in Article I-3 rather than the earlier principle of “high employment standards”. It is now no longer just a high level of social security, but full solidarity, the fight against abuse, the fight against discrimination, social justice as a fundamental principle. Another point that is being discussed over and over again in these days is the question of the priority of European law over national law. This question is dealt with in Article I-6 of the European Constitution. Hand at heart: How else should a European Community work? How else should a European economic area work if, for example, national rules on European Community rules are applied? The principle is not really new either, it has already been pointed out: For 40 years this has been true in the Judicature. At that time, an Italian, Flaminio Costa, sued his electricity bill for protesting against the nationalization of the Italian electricity company ENEL. The Luxembourg judges have given him the right – by the way, in the interests of consumer protection. To be honest, when we joined – 30 years after this knowledge – everyone knew that we are joining a European Union in which the priority of European law – but only in those areas in which there are Community competences – applies to national or national or municipal competences. That's good, too, and nothing has changed. The Austrian people also took note of this during the referendum eleven years ago, with an impressive two-thirds majority. I think it is a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen, that these things should be spoken out and stood up to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Allow me also to say something about referendum. . I have already been very surprised that honourable Member Voggenhuber has complained that the Federal Government, I personally or my representative and the government groups did not strongly support a Europe-wide referendum idea. I would just like to remind you, Professor Van der Bellen and honourable Members of the Green Group: There is a common document, a common document from my government representative, my personal representative Hannes Farnleitner of 31. March 2003, which, by the way, John Voggenhuber has signed, as well as 15 other Convention members – at least 15 percent of the entire Convention – in which exactly this idea, which I publicly supported in September 2003, before the start of the Intergovernmental Conference, is inside, namely, a European vote on the same day throughout Europe, in all 25 Member States, so that for the first time such a constitution, a European Constitution, is also approved by the European people. [[Keeping the same in height]] The government parties have supported it, the Green Group has also supported it – others would have been invited, but have not participated, but I expressly welcome the fact that the Social Democrats today are also in favour of this common idea. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I then went to the European Council three more times later. ==References== ==References== November 2004, this idea propagated, but remained all alone. I'm saying it here, too. That's also happening, and I'm not ashamed of it at all. I think we're more here than other nations. I've always warned of a “flicker slug. ” Now nine countries are making their own referendums, and this is spread over almost two years. This has practically resulted in European work in important areas, because no human being now dares to propose various things in the Commission or in Parliament or in the councils, which may be controversial, because some national referendum, which is usually about very different issues, is under discussion. In Austria we have a broad support for this idea of a Europe-wide referendum. 52 percent of Austrian citizens are in favour of such a Europe-wide vote, which means implicitly that it rejects a national vote. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: 40 years ago, on Monday this week, a great Austrian died, a great Austrian celebrates his 40. Date of death: Leopold Figl. I chose his farewell speech as Federal Chancellor and Party President from 1951, which contains a touching vision. Leopold Figl then said: The United States of Europe is the goal to be achieved after all historical ties have been overcome. The path is still set by numerous obstacles. And yet, it seems that this idea of a European agreement is increasingly dedressed from its utopian character by the harsh compulsion of history and is entering the stage of realization. This would create an order in Europe, with an economic potential that would allow the solution of the economic and social problems which could not be solved by the individual national economies so far. - Quote. And today, 2005, we are still not quite, but still, a huge bit closer to this dream. I therefore ask: Let us vote together for this important step, a peaceful one, a social one, an economically strong one and creating democratic Europe for its citizens – with a joint decision on the new Constitution!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6476	The next four speakers each have more than 7 minutes of speaking time. The first is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6501	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! There has already been a lot of talk about Europe today. In fact, everyone today has the word “Europe” in the mouth – quite naturally – because we are voting on a new constitution for Europe. But: What is Europe? – Europe is actually more than the European Union, Europe is a continent with 45 independent states and more than 700 million people. Last Monday, on Europe's day, I was at an event where the question was raised: What is the geographical centre of Europe? No one knew that; understandable. The geographical centre of Europe is Riga. It can therefore be seen that Europe is much bigger and not just the European Union. 25 states have joined forces in this European Union. 400 million people are trying to go a common way, and this is a political vision that is of an immense force. It was only the traumatic experiences of the Second World War that created this strong political force and this long breath, so that a process as difficult as the unification of Europe and the further development of Europe became possible. What is special about the European Union? – This is especially the attempt to preserve diversity while at the same time pursuing common ways and finding common solutions. And it is precisely that very many criticisms are inflamed. Finding a constitution for Europe is not easy. Many different countries are involved, and each country has different ways and different ideas. I therefore believe that the Constitution, as it stands before us today, is a truly successful constitution, that it is a step in the right direction and the best possible thing we have achieved so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What is more special about Europe? – The special thing is that it is based on common values, on values such as freedom, tolerance, pluralism. Last Monday, on Europe's day, I was very touched by the following: A student was asked what Europe is and what is important to her. And this student, born long after the World Wars, replied that the most important thing for her is still peace. This longing for a peace order, for a community, is a task for all of us to pursue this path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to lose a few words on the debate on the referendum. The whole has become inflamed with Article 16, which sets the priority of European law in relation to the law of the Member States. That has been known for a long time. The Federal Chancellor also pointed out that more than 40 years ago, there was a European Court of Justice, in which it clearly stated that European law is a matter of national law, also in view of the fact that the countries of the common legal area cannot simply say goodbye. The European Union would not work if we did not have this link to the common European law and could adopt it on the basis of national individualities and national ideas. It must therefore be that European law is a priority, yes, otherwise it is not at all imaginable. That must be aware of all, and that was also known to all those who participated here and finally voted in it from the beginning. With regard to the referendum, I would like to say that with great amazement I have heard the latest discussion. My astonishment, however, was less about the political area – one can be of the political opinion that a referendum belongs to such an important European document – but rather to the discussion in teaching. Remember the disputers, those who raised the voice: These were some professors, especially those who say in their own comments, for example, “the ground plan of Austrian constitutional law”, that it is not possible to hold a referendum on a state treaty, and which have now come to the conclusion that a referendum might not be bad. I consider the opinions expressed by these professors to be relatively critical on their own because they have a completely different credibility. The fact that a political debate is taking place is something different than when professors are different about their own subject, namely a constitutional issue of different opinions, one day before the corresponding vote. But it was clear: We all unanimously passed the empowerment law, which was adopted on 30 June. ==References== This is not the first time that this path has been chosen. Therefore, I feel a discussion in the teaching, which takes place in mid-May, as some sort of worrying and also as insecure. This is actually not a very useful way to deal with this issue, because this matter is difficult enough anyway. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] The benefits for the European Union have already been listed by my previous speakers. I would just like to point out that it will also bring a lot of changes to the national parliaments. National parliaments are being strengthened. They will receive all the legislative proposals and will be involved in the decision-making processes. As a national Parliament, we will very often have to decide whether to join forces with other parliaments to press a stop button. This brings us a very great responsibility, and I call on everyone to be aware of this responsibility accordingly. If you are opposed to the European Union, there are mostly fears behind it, because many things are not understood. This is only natural because it is a very complex matter. But if the fear of the European Union being “overstepped” over us, this is often unfounded. The overriding cannot take place if we exercise the rights to which we are entitled and make use of what is at stake. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My final sentence, Madam President: Of course, Europe is not perfect, but it is the best we have. Let us all agree to this Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6589	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6612	It has already been pointed out by several previous speakers that there is also a very critical mood in the population vis-à-vis the European Union. Of course, we need to know that a large part of the European Union's policy is made up of the sum of governments and that, of course, criticism of the European Union's policy is also a criticism of the policies of the respective national government – in this case the Austrian Government – which it can realize in the European Union. For example, if it is criticized that more can be done in the field of employment, it is also a criticism of the national government, in this case of the Austrian Federal Government, as well as of the European Union. Or: If it is criticized that one could have done more for growth, then of course this is also a criticism of the Federal Government. Of course, the exaggerated, rapid enlargement process behind which a neoliberal concept is based is also a critical point. Why not get out of nuclear energy? – This question is also a criticism point. I believe that many of these criticisms are justified and that one can only underline this criticism, even today, here too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is actually this EU Constitution or this Constitutional Treaty, as it says more precisely? The task of this Treaty is to create more rules here, more proximity to the citizen, more democracy, a Europe-wide popular desire, and the goal of social rights is ultimately to pave the way for a social union. This European Union is to be deepened in order to become a civil union, and decisions on citizens' minds in the European Union are not to be taken, often by government representatives. I now come to the question of the referendum or the Europe-wide vote. I think Caspar. As a representative of the Social Democrats in the Convention, one called for this establishment to be established in the autumn of 2002. We have called for this earlier when it came to bringing an exit from nuclear power across Europe to the vote, on the basis of the discussion on nuclear power stations close to the border. However, we have also made a request in the main committee that the Federal Government should be committed to anchoring the instrument of an EU-wide referendum at an Intergovernmental Conference in 2003. At that time, this did not find the approval of the FPÖ and the ÖVP, which is still obscene to me today. In Sunday's speeches the importance of a European referendum, but when we made a request two years ago, the government parties did not agree. Well, I don't understand this procedure! [[Abg. Scheibner: We have submitted our own request!]] The next point, a point that is quite, very crucial. ==References== March 2005 was the time when the conditions in this Parliament were created for us today to take the decision on this EU Constitutional Treaty. That was the moment when the requests for national referendums should have come! That was the moment when Jörg Haider and all those who now urge this should have put a national referendum to the discussion! - But that didn't happen. To the question to Jörg Haider, why he did not do that, he replied that it was the old FPÖ at the time that he was now at the BZÖ. That's ridiculous! That's Nestroy: Who is stronger – me or me, the BZÖ-Haider or the FPÖ-Haider, the government-Haider or the opposition-Haider? I'm back – I'm gone again! That's no longer to stand, this position! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I just wonder if this Nestroy theater always finds a new edition: Mr Bundeskanzler, how will your Presidency play if Haider is back and gone and is in favour of the Constitutional Treaty and against the Constitutional Treaty? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Possenhaft!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't worry!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What will it be like if the “West Bag Napoleon” – according to Haider – comes as a guest to Vienna when the guests come, likes or likes sharks, or likes BZÖ, or the FPÖ doesn’t like it at the time, and now the BZÖ likes after it has been refreed and re-frozen, and now suddenly wants to give a new picture? What should this Presidency look like, where Austria is host country, where dozens of television stations focus their attention on you – for example, you from the BZÖ, how you always keep your faith? How is this going to happen, Federal Chancellor? [[Abg. Scheibner: We want to talk to you about the Constitution now!]] It is not always possible to cope with this with sittings and let alone when Jörg Haider stands in front of the congregation with a transparency and protests against it. That is a question which is very well asked. [[Abg. Scheibner: We want to talk about the Constitution!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is your problem that you do not know the Constitution!]] ==References== ==References====External links== May. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I understand that you're excited, but if you're here, you'll make it up to Haider when he's back. But please don't stand with me with calls my short speaking time! [[Abg. Neudeck: Too long!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: An intermediate call is not counted!]] ==References== May, and today this debate on the Constitutional Treaty is taking place. I believe that this is in line with the needs of the people, who are very critical of the EU and the government's policy, insofar as it offers more opportunities, starting from the ground plan Charter, which is indictable up to the objectives of social rights, to the fact that there are more direct democratic institutions. [[Abg. Neudeck: You contradict Gusenbauer!]] Short: The EU is getting closer to citizens, and this Treaty offers more opportunities to influence what is happening in Brussels. And I think that is very crucial. Then it will no longer fall on fertile soil when Jörg Haider says there are politicians in Brussels who have no pale shimmer, any dark bureaucrats and conspiracy theorists who will then welcome the Federal Chancellor, if he is President-in-Office, to Vienna. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They'll all stand there and hold their hands and greet everyone, but I don't know how this will work. In any case, this Constitutional Treaty is a step in the right direction. We therefore support it and will, of course, agree to it in the interests of Austria, which is part of Europe, and in the interests of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6788	The next item is the speech by Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6809	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! – Mr Bundeskanzler, I am just grateful that in your tie there is a little blue inside. I am particularly pleased to say this at the beginning of my debate. [[Call:Orange but also]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The cast farmer has a very blue!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very blue!]] We are debating today the new EU Constitutional Treaty. On many questions, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Austria was able to prevail in the debates in the Convention and thereafter at European level and on many issues not. This is the case at international level, and so it is with this new Constitutional Treaty, which we are going to ratify today. We have not been able to prevail in the design of the Presidency and the Commissioners, when it comes to calling for each country to be a Commissioner. A transitional arrangement had to be found. However, we have been able to ensure that there is subsidiarity control that there will no longer be arbitrary sanctions for Member States, that there is a possibility of withdrawal, that there is a possibility of complaint and that citizens' rights are enshrined in this new constitution. This new EU Constitution is a significant improvement compared to the status quo, and an improvement is also necessary if this European Union is to function by now 25 members. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why I agree with most of my colleagues in the Freedom Club of the ratification of this EU Constitution today. It is also – and this is particularly important to me as a liberal – a few basic principles that are important. It retains unanimity in essential areas, for example in constitutional changes, for example in the decisions on European security and defence policy, which also concerns military operations. Member States will continue to be the basic building blocks of this European Union, and the European Council, the meeting of the Heads of Government of the Member States will continue – and this is particularly important – to be the constituents of this European Union. This is of particular importance to me that, after this new constitution has been established, we will not have the United States of Europe, but the European Union, a very specific political institution, a League of Nations, a Confederation of States, whatever it may be called that which will have its specific characteristics, its diversity, its wealth in its history, its policies and in its further development. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this Constitution will also make it possible for the individual states to continue to represent their interests consistently. There are the various mechanisms to be effective at European level, and that this is necessary, we see every day in everyday politics. Whether it's transit, animal transport, environmental pollution, whatever, it's about: There is a visible need for national countries to take care of their interests at European level. And this is also possible with this new constitution. However, we also see – and this has to be said quite clearly – that, in all these continental problems, a country alone is too weak to meet these challenges, that we need European cooperation in order to achieve all these objectives in order to ensure economic, social and environmental good development for Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union and its mechanisms are also our answer to the negative effects of globalisation. This too has to be recognized: we can only enforce ourselves worldwide at European level and can also bring interests to the fore there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Constitution also gives the Union the opportunity to develop in a reasonable way, to say that it now wants to deepen and not overcrowded enlargement. And I believe that we too, from Austria, have to take this position again and again and insist on it. However, it is all the more important, ladies and gentlemen, that we also take the critical attitude towards the European Union seriously, the more important it is that we recognize that the creation of this new constitution is actually under the heading ‘more citizens’. And: How could we have achieved more closeness to citizens in the debate and in the decision-making process of this Constitution than with a plebiscite? Whether this is a European referendum or a national, we left it open at the beginning of the debate. But it is not true that this debate just broke out yesterday. As a liberal, we have said clearly and clearly, even at the beginning of the Convention, that at the end there must be a plebiscite that a referendum is important to sanction this constitutional work. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also not true that the train has already left with regard to a national referendum. If we wanted to, we could initiate a national referendum on this EU Constitution. That is not a scientific question either, ladies and gentlemen, that is a political question. If we wanted it, we could do it. And we liberals regret that we have not been able to enforce it here in the House, that a national referendum can also be held, that we do not find the majority in favour of bringing this instrument of direct democracy to the fore. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Öllinger and Dr Glawischnig.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A referendum would also not be the opportunity for EU-critical groups to stand in the way. The opposite would be the case! There would be the possibility of bringing this EU Constitution into the population, according to the principle of closer proximity to the citizen. There would be the possibility that the rulers would take the people along this new path to Europe. I therefore very much regret that we are not taking this step here in the House. Ladies and gentlemen! I also regret this because it is not necessary to hide this Constitution. This Constitution can be used for this, because it can also be publicly represented. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6889	Next, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6912	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to make a general comment, namely the question: What do you need a constitution for? What kind of meaning does a constitution have? – That’s something you don’t always know what that means, because it’s so natural. A Constitution restricts the arbitrariness of state action and also has the task of defining, by establishing fundamental rights, freedoms and rights of citizens vis-à-vis the state. And that's something very important. The opposite of a constitutional state is a dictatorship. – Creating a constitution at European level is therefore a very important concern. Historically, the European Union has come into being: with three Treaties, which are based on very different considerations, namely EURATOM, the favour of a single source of energy, the Treaty on the European Coal and Steel Community, and the European Economic Community. And from this economic burden, the so-called four freedoms in the internal market have increasingly developed very economically. The whole other formation, namely the fundamental rights, has failed, and the situation of the European Constitution has so far been that it was a Torso that only one side existed and the other has not. That is why it is so important that this European Constitutional Treaty now sets out for the first time a catalogue of fundamental rights, for the first time setting out the missing second link to these fundamental freedoms. [[As a result of the Commission's proposal, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the common position to the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in ……]] The Austrian Greens responded with criticism and skepticism when it came to the question of whether Austria should join the European Union. And at that time we had a vision to create, together with the EFTA countries, all that was critical of the European Union – at the time: the EC – in an alternative Europe. This vision has not been achieved. The Austrian population has opted for the European Union, then still the European Community, with a very, very large majority. We now see our task of working at all levels to improve the European Union: that it becomes more ecological, that it becomes more sustainable, that it becomes social, that it becomes a peace power in the world – who else is to do so worldwide? – and we work for it. For this purpose, Johannes Voggenhuber is working in the European Parliament and here we are also working in this Parliament. That is why our answer to this discussion is: EU Constitution: yes or no? a very clear one, namely: Yes, we want them, but we want to change them too! We want to further develop them, and we want what is now to be improved. If I hear these critical voices pretending to be an alternative now, as if you could just want the ideal constitution, I think it is a little shortsighted. You always have to fight for the better, and you can't say: I don't want that, but I don't want to see an alternative. At the moment, there is only one alternative to this Constitutional Treaty. And the task of all the critics is to work to ensure that this improves – but not to prevent it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the last two days, I have been sickly beaten, which is also heard from the voice – it is much too cold for May, for this season – and I greet everyone who is in bed sick at home. But I've had it on this one. An opportunity to give me two or three days the many contributions that now take place on all television channels on the occasion of the 60. Anniversarys of the end of the war are running to look in full length. And even as someone who had been politically interested in politics since youth, I was shaken. These reports of the last days of war, of the forced camps, of all the documents of the images, including the Nuremberg process, all that is now happening in pictures in front of us on the occasion of this year of thought, must not be forgotten: The European Union has achieved something that, I believe, is unique in European history, namely that a war between states in Europe has become unthinkable. There were only two decades between World War I and World War II, and there were ten million dead in the First World War and 60 million dead in World War II. Imagine that there would have been a third world war! – And this is the great, great achievement of this European Union, and one can be proud of that at this point too! [[We welcome the Greens, the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] On the criticisms of this Constitutional Treaty: There is criticism – and this is not unlawful – that there are still many neoliberal elements of the founding documents and also of the Treaty of Nice. That's true, but it's only partial. If you look at the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, you can see that there are things that would have been unthinkable in Austria and in the Austrian discussion, in the Austrian Convention on Fundamental Rights, especially the fundamental social rights. It is a right to education – every person has the right to education and access to vocational training and further education – and it is even a positive discrimination against women – that would have been unthinkable in Austria, since there have been many votes against from your side –; there is a right to social participation, independent life, cultural participation for older people, for disabled people, for people with disabilities; and there is also such a thing as collective workers' rights, the right to strike, for example – this too is not yet anchored in our Austrian federal constitution and is not yet in sight. These are achievements at European level, given that everyone and everyone who opposes this Constitution must be aware of the fact that they are also arguing against a European catalogue of fundamental rights, which is a real milestone throughout the fundamental rights discussion and that the positive impetus is not only for European constitutional development but also for the development of the whole world towards peace union, sustainability, environmental and social security. Nevertheless, the Greens will continue to hear these critical voices, we will take them seriously, and we will bring these criticisms into the European Union and change and improve them. A final thought to the liberals – to BZÖ, FPÖ, to me Wurst, as they call themselves: I am very, very angry about how you detest the people – and I say this very consciously in this tone: mock! We have been trying for weeks and months in the Austrian Constitutional Committee to discuss the issue of referendum. There have been requests from citizens' initiatives, there has been a petition to take a serious view of the fact that constitutional lawyers are heard and dealt with this issue. It was not even possible to get your consent to the discussion; even the discussion was voted down! And then, three days before decision-making in the National Council, your alleged chief, party leader – whatever that is in this Party or non-party – Jörg Haider with a demand for popular voting to the public. This is an increase in the population! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Please bring it where it belongs. That's such an ugly policy! In the house, where it belongs, where you can really change something, where you stay with handlifts, sitting and with it to abstain or not to make a voice, politics is done here – and not about newspapers and calls and through, I say again, increase the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7017	Next came Mr. Gorbach. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, seven minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7039	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. Many developments in the area of the European Union, in which one sees not only opportunities but also risks, can also be critically questioned. And I believe that today's debate on the European Constitution is also about such a development. I think it is very positive that it gives many countries the opportunity to discuss again more about the European Union, about positive risks, but also about risks associated with them. I think it is simply good to ask questions about the future of the European Union and to deal with them in connection with this Constitution. For example, the question: Where is the European Union to develop? In what context, say: with what constitution? How will our co-existence in this European Union work in the future? But above all: What Europe will our children and our children find? Ladies and gentlemen! With the Treaty on a Constitution for Europe, we have all accepted the great challenge of giving the European Union a new quality: greater transparency, more democracy – perhaps not enough, I am giving some previous speakers a right, but more democracy, which is easy to read – and also a Europe as a community of values. That this is also a compromise is clear: If you want to make a constitution for 450 or 460 million people, for 25 Member States, that will not be one that fits everyone in every area. I also give right to many previous speakers. Mr Van der Bellen pointed out that it was already difficult enough and that it was still necessary to bring about a constitution for Austria, most of which fit a large majority. But I think it has been very successful in this Convention, and it would also be right to thank all those – including those from this House – who, as I think, have been very vehement in the Convention for this EU Constitution and have represented the Austrian interests – as you can well read – very vehement, very positive, very good, very successful. Thank you all! [[As a result of this, it is not possible to find a solution to this problem. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I recognise, as a whole, that the European Constitution makes this European Union more transparent and closer to citizens. It gives it more scope for action and design, simplifies the founding agreements, secures Member States their sovereignty and at the same time strengthens the Citizens' position. All these are important things, but also that the values I have spoken about can be clearly identified for the first time, for example, in the fact that respect for human dignity is recorded, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights and, most importantly, the rights of persons belonging to minorities. All these are important points, as I mean. It is also important from my point of view that it is also clear how to deal with serious infringements of the Union's values by a Member State, because this new regulation would prevent something that Austrians did wrongfully with the arbitrary and non-contractual sanctions imposed on us in 2000 as I believe. The integration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union into the Constitutional Treaty also makes classic civil and political rights binding, but also social rights and principles. These are all important things that a democrat can only assess positively. I also believe that the improvement of the legal protection of individuals within the EU in relation to Union acts and the verifiability of the European Council's actions is worth mentioning and very positive, also because the Austrian initiatives are, as I know, essential to the strengthening of the Union's legal system. Ladies and gentlemen! They know – I have mentioned it more often – that I am not only a federalist, but also a glowing friend of subsidiarity and I believe that they can be applied as often as possible. That is why I believe that it is also worth mentioning and very, very positive that it includes precisely compliance with subsidiarity, this principle, and also a described review in this Constitution, and that there are opportunities for national parliaments, such as you are one, as we are here, to object to proposals from the European Commission when a violation of this principle of subsidiarity is evident in it. I could mention the citizens' initiatives, which can be made possible – i.e. a means of direct democracy – I could also mention the social clause in which it is written that a high level of employment is written in order to ensure adequate social protection and to stand up for it, I could mention the solidarity clause and much more. However, I would like to mention something particularly positive, namely that it is also a matter of re-establishing a step towards greater security, more peace for Europe and Europe. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not measurable at all, neither with numbers nor with money. This is not materially measurable, but it is a value that is not at all affordable and that we must always mention positively. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, in the given short time on the subject of EURATOM. It has already been critically mentioned that there has been some failure, neither in the Convention nor in the Intergovernmental Conference. I believe that the long-term objective must continue to be the gradual expiry of the EURATOM Treaty. EURATOM funds may be used exclusively for the decommissioning of installations, and in the future an express legal basis for Europe-wide security standards must also be the objective and subject of initiatives of Austrian EU policies. This seems to me to be a point we must continue to follow. It's not as successful as we all imagine it, I think. But in total, Member States gain more opportunities to maintain sovereignty and ownership, more security – skills are defined, procedures are standardised, fundamental rights are declared – i.e. greater legal certainty, more democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this Constitution can be accepted with good conscience. It is a constitution in the Europe of the regions. Of course, we must live this Europe of the regions themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7114	The speakers of the next round each have 5 minutes of speaking time. Mr Lopatka is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7138	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We are really pleased by the People's Party that we will ratify this Constitution in just a few hours, because there will be five winners in this Constitution: The first winner – and this is the most important – are the citizens: the 450 million citizens of the current European Union of the 25th century. They are the main winners of this new constitution, because – it has already been addressed –: Of course, what has been achieved in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and is now being legalised by the decision-making process is a major progress in social rights, civil rights and freedom. "We do not know how Europe will continue. The Charter of Fundamental Rights can be a first step that Europe is consciously seeking its soul again.” – This is what the present Pope Benedict XVI wrote. in January of this year, still as Cardinal Josef Ratzinger, in his book “Values in Times of Wrapping”. For us as Christian Democrats, it is a very crucial question that, in addition to the economy, the question of values is focused on. The present version has also succeeded in giving these basic European values a valid basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: What does Ratzinger have to do with it?]] The second winner is the Parliaments. In particular, our representatives in the European Parliament, but also as Members of the Austrian National Council, have more possibilities through this Constitution in the future and are more involved in the legislative process of the European Union. The third winner – also coming across Austria, based on our federalist principle – is our local authorities and the regions, because they are more involved by the principle of subsidiarity, thus bringing the European Union closer to its citizens again. Today, many speakers have rightly said that it is up to all of us to make our contribution to making the European Union more visible to the citizens. And we will certainly not be able to deal with this by our European Parliamentaries alone, for we only bear in mind the following: There are 18 EU delegates throughout Austria, but even in the smallest federal state in Austria – whether Burgenland or Vorarlberg – there are 36 country members; here we are in the National Council 183. We must therefore also accept the European task as a task of our Members and do something for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Fourth winners are the Member States of the European Union, because this Constitution sets out clear rules for playing and the distribution of competences between the EU and the Member States is clearly regulated. Fifthly, of course, this Constitution also strengthens the European Union itself – and the European Union needs to strengthen it! Especially in times when national national policies on the world stage are certainly not successful, this European Union must prove itself. In a globalised world, it is ultimately about these 450 million people – and if the European Union is expanded again, perhaps even more than 500 million – in a competition with China – with 1.3 billion inhabitants – and India – can now claim more than 1 billion inhabitants. This is certainly an important step forward in the European Constitution. I can also mention that Europe has always been a concern of the Austrian People's Party. The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned the German Chancellor Figl, who was responsible for this. It was President of the National Council Andreas Khol, who, together with colleagues in the High House in 1986, made the request to extend Austrian foreign policy to the EC, as it was said at the time, with the possible objective of accession. Nine years later it was that far: Austria has joined the population of this European Union with an overwhelming vote of approval. Today's decision after accession in 1995 is another important and important step towards a strong Europe, a Europe that secures its citizens prosperity, personal freedom and peace. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Gaál: Speaking time has expired!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7206	The next item is Mr Dr. A. Klepsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7228	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are now eleven speakers in front of me who have said a lot about what this new European Constitution says. I do not want to repeat this, I do not want to double it, but rather to deal with the question of why we are now faced with a not massive but still not to be overlooked critical mood in relation to our present decision here in the House. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we can be both self-critical – allow me! – practice a little criticism of the government. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Surprise!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's new!]] The point is that we have to say: It has not been sufficiently informed by the Government about the Constitution! This has already been said, I would like to put it down with examples. At the time, before Austria's accession to the European Union, it was very massive – not only by the government, but also by the social partners, partly together with church representatives – about what is ahead – and this was not insignificant for 65 percent of the population to have consent. Even before the introduction of the euro, experts from the Austrian National Bank and also from politicians and social partners argued why it is a reasonable step to introduce and accept the euro in Austria. And this led to the fact that the agreement to this measure was relatively high. Ladies and gentlemen! We're missing all this now. – Yes, Mr. Federal Chancellor, there were events, but one, two major events before the Convention began, an event in the Redouten hall during the Convention, a few more events after that, that does not make the herb fat, Mr. Molterer! The point is: The effort you are making to advertise for yourself – for example, if you are making a tax reform that you can really discuss – has not driven you for the Constitution. And now we get the bill: critical votes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is not just my view, however, that this is the case. Let me present at least two quotations to you. Today you will find a comment from Wolfgang Böhm in the “Press” – not exactly the social democratic central body: “Many things have gone wrong in the process of creation. Although a broad public convention of representatives of EU governments, parliaments and EU institutions was allowed to draw up the Constitution. But the last word was kept by the EU Heads of Government, who once again replaced their power interests behind closed doors – and without any public.’ [[Abg. May. Molterer: We have the last word!]] Federal Chancellor, this is the problem! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Here is the last word!]] Here is the last word to say yes or no, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Klubobmann! But that is not what it is all about, but the question is whether a substantial, lasting debate can take place, and it can only take place there – and there it took place behind closed doors. Governments should have been widely informed, says Wolfgang Böhm in the “Press”. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This may not be so sympathetic to you, but your honourable Member Rack, who has worked very intensively, very constructively and very well at the Convention, says in the same newspaper today that there was no content discussion about the European Constitution in Austria, and in this regard there are shortcomings in the Federal Chancellor's Office and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Always come in front of your own door!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all – and you too should maintain the ability to have a reasonable self-criticism: We haven't been good enough here! And those who bear the main responsibility are the ones who govern, so at present you, Federal Chancellor, and your government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Let me say another thing. At 10.53 a.m., the clubman of the Freeman explained here: We are in favour of public discussion of all the advantages and disadvantages of this Constitution! Congratulations, Mr Scheibner! I think it's wonderful that today, two, three hours before this is decided, you make such a statement. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where were you the three years?]] The question is: Where did she come from, this public debate? Yesterday, a brochure of the Federal Government came as a mailcast. What chance has there for the population if you are already so proud of it? Yes, it must be discussed publicly, but it would have been plenty of time to do so earlier – and to do with the effort that the government is able to drive for itself! One last, ladies and gentlemen, We must also consider the quality of the information to be provided. In his speech – I am at the conclusion – the Federal Chancellor said that every person in Austria knew at the time of Austria's accession to the EU that EU law is governed by Austrian national law. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Federal Chancellor, that's nonsense! Of course not everyone knew that! [[Call the ÖVP: No, that's not true!]] And just such claims are annoying the population, so let go of them!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7388	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7435	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Vice Chancellor Gorbach: Good birthday!]] Thank you! If one has heard these contributions to the debate today, it could be believed that, if we vote on this Constitution today – and I send in advance, I will agree – then step out of a dark, undeveloped tunnel and finally come into the light of the EU, where God is finally given rights where one can finally realize thanks to God! So in the case of all the euphoria for the EU and the related institutions, I must say: That's not how it is! – We are always talking about the hour of Austria’s birth and the anniversary we celebrate this year, so I would like to say quite clearly here: Austria is one of the best developed legal and social states. We have all these rights, which have been presented more or less recently today, either now or we could have them – we only need to decide on them if we can afford them. [[Abg. Oils: We could have them!]] So it is really not that we need the EU so that we can develop ourselves on a legal or social-political basis. However, the Federal Chancellor has rightly said: With the help of this Constitution, we can play more part in Europe – it depends on it, and I think we have to separate it in the future. We should be able to further develop Austria, develop it even better, and we want to work better in the EU. We've been denied that so far! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With regard to the debate on an attack on the core of the Austrian Constitution, one really has to look at reality: We joined the EU ten years ago and, if we were interested, we were informed about it and knew what was happening to us. [[Abg. Scheibner: And always said!]] You really have to stress that! Whoever wanted to know, knew. Propaganda was relatively primitive, which is true, but it was also possible to access other information. At any rate, everyone knew that EU law will be governed by Austrian national law. The new Constitution will create a formal act again, but this formal act is not basically new. And that's why there's no legal really reliable reason not to agree – you have to hold on to it once, I think. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the referendum is concerned, it would be – and this is what we all call the liberals – to wish without letup. But you have to admit, the bigger one, the stronger government partner has had no opinion here. We tried, but we did not try brutally; we would have liked it, it was not granted to us. You just have to accept that! However, I would like to add the following: Especially in the last 60 years, the Austrians have always made a right decision on difficult questions. And it would have been reasonable to leave the Austrian people the decision on the issue of the referendum on the EU Constitution to the Austrian people. That would have been reasonable, and I regret, Federal Chancellor, that this could not have happened. As a judicial politician, I have to say critically about the outcome of the negotiations that our representatives have brought home: The government programme states that we do not want the European Public Prosecutorship, and the government programme also says that we do not want unanimity in criminal law – for good reason. Nevertheless, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, brought this home to us in the backpack of your results from Brussels, although we also agreed that a real fight should be fought in favour of Austria. I can only tell you clearly: The European Public Prosecutor's Office has no structures in that country. You don't know which authorities they represent. You don't know who controls her. You don't know in which language is being negotiated. You don't know what skills they will have. One only knows that the background is that, unfortunately, the EU has approved new Member States that do not have a rule of law that do not have a rule of law, as we are used to. That is why, within the framework of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, we must face a loss of sovereignty which Austria has not deserved! And this result must be criticized! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same applies to the issue of majority voting in criminal law. We have always had the principle in the EU that criminal law can only be amended unanimously. We already have the final sentence, we have differences in this area in Europe, which are clearly overlooked: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] In Ireland, the possession of arms by up to 14 years of imprisonment is under threat, and in Austria it is not even an administrative offence. How do we want to deal with this problem with majority voting? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] There is a need for an internal reference to criminal law if you really want to implement it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] I believe that there is still a great deal of information needed here and ask you, Federal Chancellor, to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7544	Ladies and gentlemen, please observe the speaking time. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Böhmdorfer) Good birthday!]] The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7581	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and also in front of the TV screens! Let me begin by mentioning some of the positive things that have moved the Greens and me to do – to do so – and to say yes to this Constitution! My colleague Glavischnig has already mentioned it: The European Union was an economic union from the beginning. What is happening now is that it is also made a political union. There is still a lot to be done, but at least with the anchoring of fundamental rights for all citizens, with the anchoring of even social human rights as fundamental rights, a very important step in this direction is being taken. - That's the one point. The second point, which seems very important to me too, is the Europe peace project. Not about celebrating, we remember in these days also the end of the National Socialist Terror and the Second World War. One of the results of this terror to learn from this war is that this Europe should grow together and that there should never be such a war in this Europe again! [[We welcome the Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP, SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions.]] However, this should not only be so in the current EU countries, but it should also be one for South-East Europe, for example, because it is the responsibility of the EU to work on the fact that there is no war in those countries in this region in which there have been bloody wars about 15 years ago. Another task of this Constitution is for us to see Europe shouldering its international responsibility. It should not only be economically represented in all parts of the world, promote investment et cetera, but all of this must take place within the framework of respect for human rights and democracy, so that the economy does not get upper hand and things like social rights, human rights, democracy in the background. That too is a need for me to anchor the “Never again war!” within the framework of the EU Constitution. The problems there are, and the reasons why this Constitution is facing a lot of criticism in Austria and in many parts of Europe, have already been mentioned by many of the previous speakers. I would like to address one of these criticisms, which also concerns Austria, here again. Federal Chancellor! You mentioned that you were already committed to a Europe-wide referendum in September 2003. You even said that there had been a draft, a text by your representative, Mr Farnleitner, which the colleague of the Greens, Voggenhuber, had also signed. – Mr Bundeskanzler! I just got telephoned with Johannes Voggenhuber and confirmed that this was a proposal by Johannes Voggenhuber, who, fortunately, also supported Mr Farnleitner. It was therefore an initiative by the Greens that took place in March 2003. It is good that ÖVP has also participated, but about your proposal, which you, Federal Chancellor, are today, according to which you had already committed yourself to a referendum on the Constitution in September 2003 is set out in the APA of 23. September 2003 only: “With no ‘population at European level’ on the EU Constitution, Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel (V) has nothing to do with it.” If only that was your commitment in 2003 for a common referendum at EU level, then that was very little, too little, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Let me also note that, according to information – also by Johannes Voggenhuber; finally, there was also a convention representative in the European Council – for a year and a half after this letter of March 2003, namely until autumn 2004, there was no debate in the Council on it and also you, Mr Bundeskanzler, did not contribute to making a European referendum. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He's a silencer!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, what you have said here is demagogy – and does not correspond to the facts! Their commitment to a European referendum was not enough. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This also means that there has been too little information in Austria. To the brochure you have sent out, I can say: Yes, a lot of informative is inside, much interesting, but don't you think it would have been necessary to address those things that interest the Austrian population, namely, what really happens to neutrality, whether it will be abolished, as some say? – I can only say: No, it's not, it's still upright! But there's nothing in this brochure! On the point – also an accusation to you time and again – a military core Europe is being made. – In the Committee last week, you said: Well, core Europe: Maybe you should think about it now! – These points should also have been dealt with in this brochure, and it should have been said: No, according to this Constitution – that is also the interpretation of the Federal Government – it should be it; the interpretation of the Greens is at least – there will be no participation of Austria in a military core Europe! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You should have written that in there – and not just what is positive and good about this Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7665	Mrs Plassnik, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke next. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7686	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me add a few comments from the point of view of the foreign policy on this new European constitutional work. We have no less than the first joint negotiation success of the enlarged European Union before us, the Union of the 25 and that is a novum in the history of Europe. 25 sovereign states have jointly established the rules for their cooperation. They have agreed on the values that will determine their actions, they have agreed on the objectives they wish to pursue together, and they have also laid down the rules of law which will determine the daily balance of interests. This Constitution thus creates a piece of modern European identity – and this in full respect for the cultural, economic and security characteristics of the Member States. This Constitution will be – that was yes already said – for 450 million people, but it will also create a very concrete bond of commonness: In the future, it connects each individual European with each other – whether Hungarian or Latvian, whether Portuguese or Austrian. This Constitution is not only blue with golden stars, it is also red-white-red; it also contains the colours of our partners in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also find it remarkable that this first joint success of the 25 is just the foundation for our future action. The negotiation process itself was a positive experience for Europe, for there has never been such a democratic and transparent process before. For the first time, it was not only the government representatives, but also the representatives of the people, the representatives of all the political groups of each Member State who jointly developed this work in public debates. I expressly thank the Austrian members of the Hannes Farnleitner Convention, Caspar Einm, Reinhard Bösch, Johannes Voggenhuber and their respective alternates. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These negotiations were also a very positive experience for Austria, for the smaller and medium-sized Member States as a whole. We forge alliances with other partners, with partners who naturally had similar interests. However, we have not only worked together for negotiation goals, but also created a permanent network that is still positive today. The debate we are having today is important for Austria, but it is also important in other countries. Five of the European Member States have already ratified the Constitution: Lithuania, Hungary, Italy, Greece and Slovenia. In Spain, it is almost ratified after a referendum. Today, that day, Slovakia’s people’s representatives will discuss this Constitution and make their decision; tomorrow the Bundestag will do so in Berlin. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, we are in agreement, we are also joining the European Community on this point. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, have today's decision as a clear sign of a reunited Europe capable of action and forward-looking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In terms of foreign policy, the new Constitution not only sets out the instruments and functions that will strengthen foreign policy in the future but also the objectives of European Union action in the field of foreign policy. And I would like to quote briefly from Article III-292 (1): "The Union can be guided at international level by the principles relevant to its own development, development and enlargement, and which it also wants to strengthen in the world: Democracy, the rule of law, the universal validity and indivisibleness of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principle of equality, the principle of solidarity and respect for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international law.’ – Quotes. Ladies and gentlemen! This Constitution will therefore also provide the basis for Europe's responsibility in the world to be met tomorrow. However, the Constitution will also strengthen the awareness that Europe together has more weight and enforcement than individual Member States. Today, this continent is safer, more free and rich than ever in our history. What moves people today is to safeguard the specific European model of life, a competitive social market economy, a society characterised by pluralism and tolerance, a high level of environmental protection, social justice and social protection, equality between women and men, solidarity and diversity. I particularly welcome the representatives of the young generation who have come here to the Austrian Parliament today; it is an important day for them: [[towards gallery]] It will also decide on its future; They will have to carry on and develop the European integration work. [[General condolences.]] I would now like to close by commenting on the motto of the European Union: In diversity. – This is the goal, which is also a fundamental principle that carries us. Europe does not arise in one day, and not through a treaty, but through very concrete acts, through a “solidity of the facts”, as this Robert Schuman described. You, ladies and gentlemen, are taking such a step today. It is a step towards confidence, a step of confidence in our common European future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7799	The next four Members, who are now speaking, each have four minutes' speaking time. First of all, Mr Neugebauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7823	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Professor Van der Bellen, the foreword of this brochure has also delivered a news for me, which looks back at the fact that Karl Renner was very remarkablely quoted at the Reichsratssshalle 96 years ago: “The nations will always fight, but the decisive thing is whether they are fighting with locusts, by mutual beating of the windows... or by some sort of a book of foundation.” – Citing. And this basic book is actually available to 450 million European Union citizens today. I do not want to thank all those who have joined the Convention very warmly; the names were called: Farnleitner, Dr. Einm, Dr. Bösch, Voggenhuber. I would just have liked to have, Mr President, if you had been at least a little proud of this achievement in your speech, if you had made a qualified contribution to the becoming of this Constitutional text. The question of more information will certainly continue to be on the agenda. I believe that this is, in any case, a true progress towards the Treaty texts so far, if I think only that the social dimension is enshrined in fundamental rights; if I am in the debate on water or on the Thyroid-in-Joghurt-Discussion thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the provision of existence is part of the national identity – and with such things we really do not need to stop now. We have a culture that we have developed in Austria, as well as good traditions, such as social partnership dialogue, into this debate and into these provisions, namely in the objective formulation of the social market economy. We decide for ourselves how we stand by each other, precisely in connection with the solid walnut, which is the nature and extent of this assistance. For a federalistically structured country like Austria, it is important that regional and local self-government is also subsidiary and appropriately defined. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the past, fear has always been articulated in all discussions: Aren't the big ones going to swallow the little ones? Because of the special quota that has been reached – hand in hand: just a year ago, I would not have expected it to be negotiated – the big ones will not be able to overwhelm the little ones. In reality it is in what has been brought in, so that the little ones are the great ones in the sense of a peaceful development of the European Union. I'm quoting Robert Schuman – 9th. May 1950 – with a sentence that is even more up-to-date than ever: “Europe cannot be made with a blow... It will come about through concrete facts, which initially create solidarity of action." And this Constitution is such proof. We are now celebrating in Austria 10 years of EU membership, 50 years of state treaty and 60 years of Second Republic, and I think that a large majority of Austrians know how to connect with it. I would now like to add a anniversary day, since in history only men are mentioned: It has been 100 years since a great woman, Bertha von Suttner, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, and I would particularly like to point out that this is the point and the real objective of this European agreement: What Europe will we pass on to our children? – A Europe that not only makes wars virtually impossible, but even impossible to think.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7905	The next item is the speech by Mr Arbitrator. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7927	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to deal with some of the concerns of people. It's the worry: What does this Constitution bring? Is she making peace? What about neutrality? At that time, five years after the end of the Second World War, the European Union began as a peace project and remains a peace project. Nor does the European Constitution bring serious changes to security and defence policy. It states, as before, that Member States can gradually establish closer cooperation in the field of defence. The special character of the defence policy of individual Member States must be respected. This means the neutral states which, of course, can maintain their neutrality. Especially my party, the Social Democratic Party of Austria, is neutrality a particular concern; we confess to its positive development. We are committed to the United Nations monopoly of violence, to the need for Security Council decisions and to the possibilities of the created opt-out in the EU Treaty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If there are concerns of people – Mr Molterer has pointed out – then they should be cleared. And there is indeed a lack of information policy. Since the Federal Chancellor is so proud of this brochure: Well, let's take her, let's look at her in detail! In the content, in the technical matters, it is certainly fine, but in a brochure one should have tried to eliminate these issues on questions that arose in the debate about these contents – of course in a preface. That is not the case, however. Two days before the decision, this brochure was sent to the budgets, but the preface did not address this debate, Federal Chancellor. Literally, only the old preface was written off from a one year older brochure. – But please: It is your right to write off of yourself – and also to add a picture of Mrs. Foreign Minister. However, there should already be open questions, mistakes from an old preface should be taken out, for example, when the “common constitution for all European states” is spoken of, although it is only a little more than half of the European states that are in the EU and which are subject to this Constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] Furthermore, this brochure does not say anything about neutrality; it does not address the fact that legitimacy has arisen through the Convention. To the words of thanks you have found here today: You didn't notice this coming in. Foreword would have heard that all Parliaments, including the European Parliament, participated in this Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Social Democrats have also published a brochure...!]] Information is necessary for people, and this is a public debt, because we will only be able to exist at European level if we are informed about this level if we see it as a new level of policy action – and if the people of our country know what is going on at this level.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7997	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8019	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! The heart of democracy is the constitution. Undisputed for everyone here in the House is probably that the European Constitution means progress in Europe. Of course, an agreement on this Constitution was difficult because it affected the interests of the individual national states. It is impossible to bring 100 percent of the national interests into a European constitution. Where national renunciation was necessary, we could start a discussion about Europe, about the Constitution very well, but: Such a discussion is usually for or against Europe – and this has nothing to do with the Constitution. I am therefore not going to participate in such a discussion. It would also have been better if this question had been presented to the Austrians. As a Democrat, I understand that, in the event of significant changes for Austria, our citizens are being questioned in the event of significant changes in Austrian interests. It is already very hypocritical – I have to say that, and this is a criticism of the Social Democrats – if Mr. Deputy comes out here and does not work out the difference compared to Austria’s accession to the EU. [[Abg. May. Worm: “Holy ”?]] Indeed, the Austrian population has been questioned. If you ask the Austrian population, you need to inform a lot more, so there must be a decision-making process with many discussions before. As for the introduction of the euro, it was the same thing: There was a popular desire to do so. – Now vote You here in Parliament agree that Parliament will decide on a Constitution, and you will be putting it at the same level as Mr Schieder said here: there is a great lack of information policy. Please, the whole Parliament was informed. If you would have wanted this information, you should have asked the Austrians: Do you want a European Constitution or do you want none? Please do not go out as the only ‘argument’ and criticize the government that this was a false information policy, because that is not right! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's all so embarrassing what you're saying here!]] – Your appearance is embarrassing, especially the appearance of the Social Democrats! As far as ratification is concerned, I will personally agree. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Unstateman!]] I will vote in favour of this ratification because the Constitution is important for Europe and important for the European people. Europe's survival can only be guaranteed if a European Constitution is adopted. It is important for the peace project. We have heard a lot about fundamental rights today, about animal protection, environmental protection, about essential elements for people, about social security, equality of competition and much more. I think it is important for Austria that we stick together and go the way together. The population belongs to information. Personally, I would also like Austria to continue to fight for a European vote. Should these not take place, it would of course also be important for the Constitutional Court to review this vote here in order to have a guarantee: whether it is constitutional or not it is necessary to consult the Austrians. My support is for this Europe. I think it's important for the next generations. My vote in favour of this Constitution is a personal one, I see it very personally. But I would have preferred that all Austrians would have been able to vote for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8094	Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8127	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the blue and orange liberals! In a very important debate, I would urge you to stop condemning this House with the fact that you are outside the House against the Constitution and for a referendum and are in this House for the Constitution and against a referendum. The It's confusing enough. Let us talk about the Constitution and not your problems! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We are voting with us today, yes, because, out of great conviction, the Austrian people have given us all the task, in a referendum, not only of bringing Austria into the new Europe, but also of fighting for this new Europe to become a democratic Europe. Although many things are missing and the constitutional process has only begun: We have for the first time a foundation of democracy and human rights in a united Europe! This is amazing, and that is something that no one would have expected to be one of the Member States involved ten or fifteen years ago. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is one of the largest and most important political reforms in which representatives of the Austrian National Council were also involved. At the time, we had an order to negotiate; not a task to repeat every ten years the referendum on Austria's accession to the European Union, but to lead a major task for the Austrian people through negotiations to a positive conclusion. If we have reached this positive conclusion, the Austrian National Council has the responsibility to vote on it. The fact that there will be a large majority for it simply means that at least today the common opportunity will be recognized. But we will have to fight again tomorrow about the future of Europe. This will be an important issue. We will argue with the Chancellor whether it is a Europe of a common peace order or a Europe of disarmament and military intervention. We will have to argue about whether there are efforts to maintain peace only with a mandate from the United Nations, or whether Europe is participating in dangerous military missions without international mandates. And we will argue about whether it will be a Europe of chancellors and governments, as the Federal Chancellor has done in the negotiations, or whether it will be a Europe of citizens and parliaments! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And there, Federal Chancellor, as in the past, you will be one of our main opponents. But the last and most important will be the debate on the social future of Europe. For the people who say, “We want to vote! ” ask ourselves something quite different: Should it really be a Europe, as you represent, Mr. Federal Chancellor, in which large corporations threaten the individual states: If you do not go down further in profit taxation and wealth taxation, and if you do not capitulate and ensure that only the workers pay the tax, then will we move to the next country? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Here, Federal Chancellor, it is about creating a European counterweight, a European counterweight to fair taxation, justice, social compensation and security, because – Madam President, that is my final point – the foundation of this peace order of the European welfare and education state. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8211	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller's word. Every 3 minutes speaking time for the next four speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8232	Madam President. High house! In the Bible, we read the parable of the wise and the unreasonable man from the evangelist Matthew and the evangelist Luke. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Who reads the Bible here?]] Jesus tells of two men who have ever built a house. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The wise man lifts the pit deep down to the rock, builds a solid foundation and on it his house. The unreasonable man builds his house on the sand without foundation. When the flood and the floods come, the house of the reasonable man remains standing, while the house of the unreasonable man collapses. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Climate protection problem!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How's it going?]] High house! We have our house Europe, which has been building for 55 years, since Robert Schuman, the great European, expressed this idea. This building was done through many contracts; I mention Rome, Maastricht, Amsterdam, Nice. It grew larger and bigger by a larger number of states. When Austria joined, we were 15, now it is 25, and soon it will be 27. It is urgently necessary that this House should finally get the solid foundation. This foundation, this Constitution, does not contain anything negative. I would just like to mention four points. First: The EU remains a nation of states, a union of sovereign states, and even the withdrawal of the states is regulated. Secondly, The Constitution strengthens the fundamental rights of citizens; to the dignity of people, to the right to life, to non-discrimination, social rights are also equal in addition to economic principles. Thirdly, Europe will not become a cultural stew; “In diversity” it says; it remains the Europe of the regions. Fourth: Nor does neutrality see any change compared to the current constitutional situation. – That would be the focus. In this sense, I can call on all those who vote on this: Today, like the wise man in the Bible, let us lay the solid foundation for our common house Europe, for a Europe of peace, justice and solidarity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8299	Next, Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8321	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the office that my previous speaker celebrated here, I will return to the subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: We are not ashamed of that!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're celebrating this 60 years of war. [[Abg. Ellwall:... with the values a problem!]] The fact that we have been able to live in peace for so long is not least the success of European cooperation. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The EU Constitution, as it is available to us today, is certainly the most intensive form of cooperation, and it is the result of a changing, often difficult approach process of the European national states, an approach process that has lasted decades and is far from complete. Ladies and gentlemen! Considering how hardened the fronts were after the two world wars, it was an incredible human size to overcome the role of victors and victors and to build a peaceful Europe together. The original concept was a simple but effective: Economic links should be linked to each other and competition should be carried out at economic, but not at military level. The European Union should provide a framework for this. However, this also makes it quite clear that priority has been given to economic conditions. The living conditions and interests of the people were, at least, side effects of these developments. This should gradually change, but only very hesitant, and for my taste too hesitant. Too much attention has been paid to those responsible in the European bodies as agents of global activities, and the dynamics of the negative growth of globalisation has been speeded up by this policy rather than by the barriers, as the discussion on the Services Directive now shows quite clearly. Unfortunately, the Austrian Federal Government has put itself in the unmistakable first row here. That is why I do not think it is surprising that in Austria the EU scepticism is particularly large and far greater than it was ten years ago when it was possible to rely on the fact that at least our representatives in the Council have committed themselves to a policy for the benefit of people. [[Abg. Ellmauer: As the transit contract shows!]] Unfortunately, this is different today, and that is why a referendum limited to Austria would undoubtedly have been a settlement with the current Federal Government. But this would not really have deserved the present EU Constitution! As bad as this government is, the draft could not be in the worst case either. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Although the present EU Constitution is not final in many areas, from a social democratic point of view it would certainly have been desirable for a social and less economic-liberal character of the Constitution. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] But you have to say that conservative and neoliberal members have also jumped over their shadows and...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8427	Madam President, you have used the speaking time! Unfortunately, I have to interrupt you, otherwise the remaining two speakers will no longer speak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] [[In the case of the SPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. May. Grossmann.]] Mrs Bleckmann spoke next. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8463	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Pilz doesn't understand plurality. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I don't know who doesn't understand!]] And the Greens have already managed to get all their EU-critical members out of their club, such as Mr Langthaler, who was always EU-critical. [[Calls to the Greens.]] In our view, there are still many different opinions on these issues. I will tell you once again so that it can be made clear to you as well. We liberals say about a European Constitution, but we also say to a European referendum, and we say that to clarify the legal question “Is a referendum absolutely necessary?” by the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must also be possible for this question to be resolved by the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen:... you slept! Three months ago...!]] If you want this to be clarified, then the colleagues from the SPÖ can say to their colleague Ambrozy that he is going there so that this question is finally clarified in Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Yes!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you want to say a yes to a European referendum, you agree with our request for a free motion for a resolution along with the EIA that I have tabled: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to continue and strengthen its support for the holding of EU-wide referendums on future changes to the Treaty of the European Union (European Constitution) concerning the fundamental principles of the national constitutions, as well as for the general European legal anchoring of the possibility of Europe-wide referendums on issues of fundamental importance for Europe, and to work towards the convening of an EURATOM revision conference.” This would be a Europe-wide referendum that we consider important and necessary if we were to talk about civil rights in the EU. There you can agree, if you want to, and not only speak beautifully here, but then, when it comes to consent, refuse. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are also saying a yes to the European Constitution, and there are still two points that are important to me personally. For the first time, the possibility of withdrawal has been laid down, there is finally a reparation against Austria, which will no longer be possible in this form in the way it was adopted against Austria in 2000, and the principle of unanimity on important issues such as security will also remain. All these are important points that we agree with the European Constitution in this form. There are, of course, a few drops of advertising, and a Member of the Greens, Mr Pilz, will not be able to ban us from speaking if we also make public remarks here. We have done so in the past, and we will do so in the future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Fortunately, we live in a democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8573	Mrs Bleckmann's motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8723	Mrs Sburny's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8761	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Bleckmann, I think it is quite courageous what you are doing here to make this request for a European referendum. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The Greens – should you remember – made a request in November 2004, here in plenary, on an EU-wide referendum, on a corresponding government initiative. And what do you have? You made it? – You rejected him! [[Congratulations and Oh-Rufe with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But now, on the day of the decision, do you bring it in and do so, so whether this would be your initiative? – There I can only laugh, your disbelief is really nothing to add! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Similar: Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, you said that you have taken an initiative at EU level for the EU-wide referendum. That's not quite honest either – to express it discreetly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] The initiative for this EU-wide referendum has been introduced in the Convention of Johannes Voggenhuber, which was supported by member of government Farnleitner, but not by the Federal Government at the time. They have failed at the Intergovernmental Conference to provide an initiative to this end. They didn't want that right back then, Mr. Federal Chancellor! That is why the Greens are bringing – the MEPs Van der Bellen, Lunacek, Sburny, friends – this motion for a resolution today, and we will see how the vote is going: ‘The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to set at European level a political initiative to introduce a Europe-wide referendum on European issues of central common interest." I think this is also so necessary to show you how you act, both from the BZÖ – former “F” – and in some way from the Federal Chancellor. I believe that this is one of the reasons why the population – and rightly so – is skeptical of issues that concern the EU, because they are not played with open cards. The members of the government often voice a negative voice and shudder at what was decided in Brussels, without saying that they were involved in these decisions! There is no transparency at all as to where there is the possibility to intervene. We constantly struggle not only to get information in time – which is difficult enough – but also to draw the attention of the members of the government to what they could usefully represent in Brussels in the interests of the population. As a general rule, these applications are rejected. But don't pretend you weren't there!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8839	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Sburny in his key points has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8879	The next item is Mrs Machne's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8901	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! As a truly convinced European, I am of course pleased that we are today preparing this European text. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the Committee of the Regions of the European Parliament, to which I was allowed to be a representative for two years of the Austrian Urban Federation, we have been working in many amendments to federalism, which I would like to speak about today, for the autonomy of the countries and the municipalities, especially from 2001, when the Convention began its work. It is noteworthy that, despite the fact that the European Constitutional Treaty has also worked with highly centralistically organized countries, the future EU constitution of local self-government gives a higher priority than the Austrian federal constitution. For the first time in the history of the EU, the Constitutional Treaty explicitly respects regional and local self-government. This has not always been easy to achieve, as cooperative federalism is further developed with the involvement of the communities in Austria than in most other European countries. I still remember very well the introduction of an amendment by the Heads of State of Tyrol and South Tyrol, which referred to the competence for water so important to us. After a few discussions in the Committee of the Regions, we have tabled our amendment: Water remains in Austrian hands. This is particularly important for the countries in which a lot of water flows. The principle of unanimity is only available in a few areas, but also in terms of water. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Constitutional Treaty also makes it clear that European laws do not affect public health, such as health, transport and waste disposal, and that decisions remain the responsibility of each Member State. The border and mountain regions are particularly taken into account in the new Constitution, which is of great importance to Tyrol, but especially to East Tyrol. In the future, there will be a structural programme for border and mountain regions. Austria has prevailed in many areas, so I would like to thank the negotiators in particular, especially our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8946	Mr. Bundeskanzler, Dr. Schüssel, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8967	High house! Mr President. I would like to address once again the issue of authorship in relation to the European referendum. I have reported myself after the television broadcast, because now things can be carried out more openly in this forum and I also did not want to cut down the television time of the other political groups in any way. The truth is – and I would like to spread it here once again –: In 1996 – there I was Foreign Minister – at the last Intergovernmental Conference, when it came to the Treaty of Amsterdam, there was a joint initiative between Austria and Italy. I think the Italian Foreign Minister was Lamberto Dini at the time. We then proposed three points, three elements: Firstly, the binding anchorage of fundamental rights in the European Constitution. This has now become reality through the Duke's Commission and so on, now also through this Constitutional Treaty. Secondly, the possibility of a European Constitutional referendum to anchor the possibility of a European referendum for the first time. Thirdly, to start a European popular desire, which has now become reality with the Constitutional Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen! So it doesn't make any sense at all if you go around there now and fight who first demanded it. It was an Austrian initiative, which, by the way, was also carried by all the political groups in the House at the time. What's going to do if it's said now, please, I used to be and he doesn't have. This was a joint initiative almost ten years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have always represented this, ladies and gentlemen, and please note that too! It is not only the information of Mr Voggenhuber that is correct, it is also true what is said by the Government Bank. And since you claim that I would not have represented it strongly enough – look at the European Council, Mr Voggenhuber, who obviously said this to you. Do you have the kindness and not just read APA reports, but just read what is reported in the newspapers according to the European Councils. You can read what the Austrian head of government has said. And believe me, this is just as transparent as it is here at a committee meeting. What is discussed inside is reported, criticized, confirmed, praised outside of all sides. So it is in the European Council, so it is in the Council. The idea of a European referendum comes from us, and we should be proud of it together. The idea of a European popular desire came from us and is now realized. The idea of binding the fundamental rights we proposed almost ten years ago, which has now been achieved. So let's not make ourselves smaller than we are! I am proud of the contributions of the opposition as well as the contributions of the government groups, which have always been very constructive. Don't talk about the Austrian government always smaller than we are: We're not going so badly!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9028	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9064	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a little bit smaller to reduce the debate on the EU Constitution on the authorship of the request for a European referendum. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I think that's right! That's right!]] I think it would have been beneficial to have a European referendum on this question. We all agree on this because it would be necessary for this constitution to take place as widely as possible in the population, and it would have been useful to consult the European population on a European constitution. On the debate on a referendum in Austria: I do not know how to speak to the Liberals' Club now, as FPÖ or BZÖ, but honourable Members Bleckmann and honourable Member Wittauer: Since 1995, this two-stage procedure has been in place in European affairs, namely an authorisation law to conclude a contract afterwards. You have agreed to this authorisation law, in which you could have demonstrated whether or not you agree to such an operation. They cannot, after all, refuse to take a course which they themselves have agreed to in the discussion. You have to believe in the credibility of your own statements at some point. This is an inconceivable process, that one agrees to the empowerment law and then criticizes the process resulting from it. So that's really under any criticism. Mr Scheibner, you then explain to us why we should not vote for a referendum is already curious. You should talk to your colleagues instead of having this conversation as a self-evident. Do you practice this in front of the mirror, or do you talk to your colleagues sometimes? You should make it clear to you – and what you said is true – that there was an authorisation law. All of your Members have agreed to this, and afterwards you go out here and say: But I am against the fact that there is no referendum. Would you have said that in the debate on the empowerment law or would you not have agreed to this law? The Constitutional Court, in which we will agree, will certainly not be able to carry out an immediate review of this process today unless everyone else agrees. However, you would have been able to fight for a long time under the empowerment law. That's what you've been guilty of. Here, too, you could have been active! In fact, you have not taken seriously any legal prerequisites, but only polemize, and you do not take the legal consequences of your own actions seriously. And the most terrifying thing is that They first agree with a law that determines this procedure, and then take themselves out of the game and say: What I did at the time is stupid, because I actually wanted a referendum. You could have said that, too, you could have expressed this with your voice behaviour, but you are not even able to do so! It is a pity that this European discussion has fallen at this level. But in the end, I think, this Constitution is a step in the right direction, a further development of the existing Treaties. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your speech is a step in the wrong direction!]] It would be a shame if a referendum in one of the countries went wrong, because then one would fall back on an unsatisfying state of the contract, with which one could probably no longer lead a Union of the 25 efficiently. Just because a newspaper is behind this small discussion, I don't think it's the right way. Believe in your own decisions! Just stand for it, and don't ask the opposite of it in the next decision!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9114	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9136	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! I will not vote for this ratification today, because I believe that the appropriate body to decide on the EU Constitution is not only the Austrian National Council, but the entire Austrian federal people. Of nine European countries, we know that they will be in national referendums on this EU Constitution, and what is cheap for French, English, Danish, must also be right for Austrians. In the discussion that has begun in the last few days – it would at least look like to be avoided – there has also been a very significant legal opinion that this is an overall change in the federal constitution and that therefore a referendum is absolutely necessary in accordance with the Federal Constitutional Act. At any rate, however, it is a partial change in the federal constitution, which can be subject to a referendum by a third of the votes of the National Council. That this is now also possible, Mr Gusenbauer – he is not here yet – is quite clear. If I had already submitted the request for a referendum to the Empowerment Act, I know exactly what one would have said: There is no voting item yet. You want a vote on a zero. You came at the wrong time with your vote. Now is the time when it would be useful and in Parliament to decide on a third of the Members. I therefore propose that the Court should reply as follows: Request by Mr Rosenkranz on the implementation of a referendum on the EU Constitution The National Council wants to decide: The decision of the National Council on the approval of the conclusion of the State Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, including Protocols, Annexes and Final Act (851 d.e. XXII GP) is Article 44(1) in accordance with § 85 NRGO iVm. 3 Federal Constitutional Act after termination of the procedure in accordance with Art. 42 B-VG, but prior to the Federal President's confirmation of the vote of the entire federal people. I would ask the President to ask the question of support for this request. High house! I do not know why you are afraid of the debate on this EU Constitution, why you do not want to bother to argue and convince. And I find in principle that there is a pitiful change in political culture. It is precisely on the basis of this debate that we see it: Once the political class has agreed on a common goal – and that is then about red, about green, about orange to black – then – and I think this is very unfortunate and, if it is a narrowing of the freedom of political debate – it cannot be legitimate, at least it is presented to give more counter-proposal. I think that's a bad development. That is why I believe that not only for legal reasons, but above all for democratic reasons, a referendum is necessary and useful.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9193	Mrs Rosenkranz, you asked me to ask the question of support. This is not for me, as I declare the request inadmissible: That's because it's a people's issue. vote on the State Treaty. For more information, I will give you a copy of the Presidential Decision of all parties. The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9228	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Europe has a varied history. Many wars and devastations have been fought across our continent, it has been built and the next war has followed. It was only after the Second World War that the awareness was raised that Europe certainly has no future. Great personalities – and this is what we should say today and here – have also called for Europe to agree from the policy of our state. Only in this way is it possible to live in peace here. The process from Montanunion to today's EU of the 25 was laborious, but I am convinced that our continent could face such a new, positive future and gain great importance in world policy. Like everything in life, this European Union needs a regulatory, in the clear text a constitution. Living together and working together is based on this. The content of the Constitutional Treaty, which we are in front of us today and which we are about to decide, can expect new and positive developments. I also regret that the proposal by the representative of our country, our Federal Chancellor, has not been approved, namely, that a referendum will be held together in one day throughout Europe. But that is how it is, and we have to deal with this fact. Based on the expectation that Europe could become stronger, that Europe could be a stronger political factor and that Europe would also have to have greater economic importance in the world economy, I believe that the agreement to it in the other countries will be found in whatever way. This is important because it will depend on how we can position ourselves in the future. I believe it is important that, for example, the qualified majority is laid down in this Treaty, so that it will be impossible for small states to be overwhelmed by the larger ones. The dual majority-finding ensures that we too, a small country in the large Europe, can manifest our importance. Mr. Federal Chancellor, that was certainly a great achievement. As so much criticism has already been made today, these positive things must also be made very clear. I think it's important that we talk about it. Furthermore, I am glad that this Treaty will ensure that social rights are indicted accordingly and that, in accordance with the horizontal social clause, we may also be able to expect a new development. For me, important elements are peacekeeping, the preservation of this valuable good and the joint action against any kind of new threat, such as crime and terror. My expectation is that, before the next growth step, Europe will live and practice this Constitution, which we will decide today in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9272	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9295	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union was expanded from 15 to 25 members a year ago. This was a big, important project, but the institutions have to be adapted to it. For this reason, but also for many other reasons, it was necessary to develop a new constitution. A fall back on the Treaty of Nice certainly cannot be the solution. Therefore, there will be almost unanimous agreement today, even if criticism has been expressed, and I think that criticism of the European Union is also justified, because expectations have undoubtedly not been met. Remarkable is the mini-referendum of the Austrian Society for European Policy, in which 5 000 people have been questioned. 37 percent thought that today the National Council should give its approval to the EU Constitution, 21 percent were against it, and 42 percent did not express their opinion. It is very interesting that almost half of the respondents did not express any opinion. That already indicates a lack of information. This information deficit is simple. Of course, the Constitution is a very complicated work; people look at less treaty texts than the effects on their daily lives. That is where we find distrust, but also disappointment with the European Union. I do not think so much rejection as distrust because the European Union is not seen as the Europe of people. People associate bureaucracy, inconsistency, abjectness. However, everyone must also be aware that the policy of the European Union is still the sum of the government's policies and therefore also the governments bear the responsibility, play a key role in criticism of the EU and disappointment over the European Union. It is therefore important that the Constitution provides a framework for policy and that targets are articulated, some of which are quite positive. Thus – and this is very important for us Social Democrats – the social issues of higher importance are given. The objectives include full employment, combating social exclusion and discrimination, promoting social justice and social protection, equality between women and men, solidarity between generations, protection of the rights of the child and also an anchoring of social society. It is also important to include the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Constitution. However, there are also negative things to mention. There are no macroeconomic differences in growth and employment. There is no way to stop down-to-down tax competition, and there is no clear guarantee of public services or general provision of services in the context of EU competition law. That is to say, there is still an overweighting of the economic over the social situation. Nevertheless, as has been said, it is important for the European Union to be further developed. It is important that it develops into a social union, and that requires a good constitution. This Constitution is certainly just a first step, but after all, it is taking a first step.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9338	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9362	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker outlined it a little bit and, of course, we also know that the complexity of matter as a whole is a certainly problematic one and may not be able to find such a broad public understanding, because matter is very difficult. But, on the other hand, I believe, as politicians, as mandates, we are able, in many ways of direct democracy, which, of course, we all leave open – that is not a question – to also bear a certain responsibility and to make certain direction-setting decisions. Let me perhaps mention two or three aspects in the short term, which concern me, as a simple Member, also in a rural region, perhaps a little bit of the heart. On the one hand: The peace policy aspect of this Treaty, which many may underestimate, is very important. We are in a year of thought, Europe stands for peace and, of course, for Community, for freedom and democracy, and that is what this Constitution also expresses accordingly. Mr Schieder has already mentioned this, and I am grateful for this speech: In the final consequence, it is necessary that we, particularly as regards neutrality, seek and perhaps find a further development in the discussion. We have already found peace in Europe, I think, economically, and, in terms of peace for Europe, we still have a corresponding need to catch up and catch up, so that, of course, the small or larger powder barrels around the beautiful Europe will of course be eroded accordingly. A second aspect, which is only very brief today, is that of which I believe as a convinced federalist that he is very important and that we must always be on the hat. As a Member State, we need to know that we are not a simple member of the EU in the “Saxony debates” we are in, as we ultimately have to articulate many issues such as transit, tax competition or public services. Here, in particular, regional but also country competence has a very important and important role to play. I am convinced that the country parliaments and, of course, this House should build a stronger network with the national parliaments and the national parliaments of the Member States in the future. I believe that this is quite, very important, so that perhaps, as is sometimes the case today, we can reduce so many democratic deficits. And as the last aspect – I think no one has said that today, but I may say it alternately for 181 members –: I am proud and really happy to be part of the political generation that this first major treaty, this visionary treaty for Europe, is allowed to take part. Good thing about this Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9405	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9426	Federal Chancellor! The Greens are by no means small or pingy, or as you have said, the Greens will agree to the request of Molterer, Scheibner and colleagues regarding European referendums – thanks for the shy applause! . although we agree with some of the passages in the previous text, although one could right on whether the Federal Government is now really being asked correctly, continue – in any case, you have the right – to continue and strengthen and so on to support the holding of EU-wide referendums. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. May. Molterer]] We're not small. In the case, the application is okay. We support this and, of course, the convening of a EURATOM revision conference. On the other hand, I wonder, of course: We also make a request, or we have put it before you, to promote a resolution by Van der Bellen, Lunacek, Sburny and colleagues, in which it is said that the Federal Government is asked to support these European referendums at European level and so on. Not even in the previous text is there any comment here or even the slightest indication of criticism of the Federal Government or of ÖVP/FPÖ. You can't feel provoked by anything here. Will you also agree to this request, or will you agree as in – when was it? – November 2004? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Wait!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9482	The next speaker to speak was Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9504	We are neither pingy nor childish; we will agree with both requests. We believe that it is particularly important for this proposal, if it is supported by all in plenary, to be given the greatest possible weight in the future when it comes to promoting the establishment of a pan-European referendum at all, and for the second to be able to vote on this Constitutional Treaty when all the states have ratified it. Then it would be good if there really was a pan-European referendum to do so. This facility must first be created. I therefore believe that a closed vote would be correct today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would, however, like to make a small comment. I admit that the Greens' request is an objective, short request without criticism of the government, which is probably difficult for the Greens, however it is always difficult for us to make proposals which do not include criticism of the government. But it shows that you can jump over your own shadow. There's a problem between the two government parties. They often want to agree to their requests, but at the same time there is always self- praise, and they cannot distance themselves from them. For example, this wording in the request, which states that the Federal Government should continue to support the holding of EU-wide referendums, is and remains a historical clatter, since the criticism is justified that much more vehement, much stronger, much earlier – I only refer to the question of the European nuclear energy exit – could have been used for it, but we welcome the fact that the same sentence will then say that it will be more committed to it in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The Truth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The Truth!]] That is, the word “strengthens” actually confirms our criticism, namely the criticism that it has not actually been done so far. So there's a little swinging – how am I supposed to say? – a bad conscience in this formulation with and almost a self-criticism, unlike the usual self- praise of the requests of the two government parties. Therefore, when I evaluate this in the combination, we naturally conclude that we agree, so really everyone in common, and then see that this is really happening in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9573	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee for approval of the conclusion of the State Treaty in 851 of the Supplements. Under the Federal Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty on a Constitution for Europe, the decision on the conclusion of this Treaty may be taken only in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. First of all, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for the conclusion of the State Treaty on a Constitution for Europe to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[General condolences.]] I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that all language versions, except the Germans, must be made known by the fact that they are available for inspection in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Molterer and Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on European referendums. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also accepted by the majority. (E 99.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on an Austrian initiative for the introduction of a Europe-wide referendum on European issues. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. (E 100.) [[13:31:35]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 588/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Mag. Barbara Prammer, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Dr. Josef Cap, Herbert Scheibner, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. (Second reading).............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9689	This means we can reach the 2nd place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker, Mr Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9716	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Now that we have been dealing with Europe's questions, there is also a consistent next step. This consistent next step must be to change the way we work in the Austrian Parliament, especially in the National Council, with regard to the critical votes that exist around the European Constitution, so that more European issues will be discussed publicly in this House in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are aware of the current situation, then one thing is quite clear: I believe that we have a very good starting point as regards Parliament's rights to participate in European decisions. For example, we discuss publicly in the main committee before each European Council, as the Federal Government also has Austrian interests to represent. We have a subcommittee of the main committee, which deals with detail issues and there we discuss with the competent member of the Federal Government, how we Austrians should behave at European level, but we only have the opportunity in plenary to talk about European issues when it comes to such a subject as the European Constitution, that is, if a treaty is to be voted on by yes or no. I think that it is right that we should be more concerned about future issues of the European Union in the future in the National Council. That is the content of this amendment concerning the Rules of Procedure. I think it is very positive to see that in future, in the National Council, we will discuss in our own meetings what a work programme of a Presidency looks like. We can discuss all these future issues that are related to this. And that will also give due attention, more than before. Secondly, at a meeting of the National Council, we will be able to discuss issues proposed by each of the clubs, with a Rules of Procedure similar to those in the case of a urgent question. We will be able to deal with such future issues from the institutions' work programmes, and a club can propose this. We also have the opportunity to discuss matters discussed in the main committee in public in plenary, so to speak. I think these opportunities are a good development, because I expect that when the national Parliament deals with them, a subject will be much more important in the field of education and training. It is the subject of the European future. This is a development after ten years of membership of the European Union, which I believe we all welcome. All the political groups voted in favour of this in committee. I think this is also a major political development, because we will only be able to raise the public awareness of European issues if we are prepared in the National Council to devote more attention to these future issues of Europe in a public debate. That is why I see this as a very good step. I am pleased with the agreement of all the political groups and believe that this first step, even if not everything is still perfect and we probably need to change some of the rules of procedure from the point of view, is a very successful step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9772	As the next speaker, Mr Arbitrator is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate we have had in the Committee, a Member has referred to this request, this amendment as an important step and as a milestone. Even without the word-tlaubery indication that a milestone stands after a mile, which is about 2 500 steps, you have to say: one step – yes, milestone – no. There will, of course, be approval of this law, because the proposal is far better than the current state of affairs. Consent – yes, satisfaction – no, because democracy policy is too little. How did this novelle come to be? – After the low level of participation in the elections to the European Parliament, all political groups agreed that something had to be done. The idea was to give the public a greater insight through its own meetings of the National Council on the exclusive discussion of EU issues and thus to gain them more for the work of the European Union. In terms of content, the participation of the National Council in EU matters should also be strengthened. Of these two tasks, the marketing consideration in EU matters, almost the PR part, as well as the legitimate educational and public work part, has been quite successful. The democratic part, the real strengthening of the National Council in EU matters is not really happening. Let me, if it allows time to fix that to three things. First: Time-limit. A period of time for each club to announce the issues eight weeks before the meeting, that it can then propose another change a week before, but that is where the President-in-Office has to agree, that is not really the current debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, the instruments concern: There is no current hour or Question Time in EU matters, there are no urgent questions and there are no urgent requests in EU matters at these meetings. In normal meetings they may be, and in these meetings they are excluded. Third example of criticism: The amendment strengthens the privileged position of the members of the government. The rule in our Rules of Procedure, that Members of the Government can speak here at any time, can take the floor – it will even speak requires that television time be considered whether the restriction may apply to it – it is believed that it is an analogy to the principle of ministerial responsibility. Don't do that! It comes from a time when there was no ministerial responsibility, because this privileged position was based on the crown's government thinking. It is found for the first time in the so-called octroyed Rules of Procedure of Emperor Franz Joseph of 23. ==References== Although this privileged position of the Austrian members of the government is maintained, the analogy requirement for EU debates, perhaps a Commissioner is coming and speaking and replying here, will not be followed. This will not be possible, it will not come to Parliament! – Strangers, it is mostly foreigners who sow the spirit among us. It is not a real progress if one wants to participate in EU matters, but it does not make it possible in essential new points. That's why: Let us see this as the first step and work on the further steps! Let's expand the instrumentarium! Let's create new opportunities! Let us also look at all the possibilities that exist for normal parliamentary operations for EU meetings, and consider further possibilities: Networking with other parliaments for these meetings, opportunities for EU bodies to speak here, to answer, to question them! Let us be a little more courageous on this question! Then the meetings become more exciting, the transfers are more exciting – it is better for us, for the public, and it is better for the European idea too.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9860	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9882	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Arbitrator! It's right, that's a compromise. We did not discuss it for weeks in both the Presidential and the political groups, but rather for months... – To which group would [[Abg. Arbitrators: I think everyone already sees themselves as a government! One is, the other sees itself, and no one is thinking about Parliament!]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] You count, Mr. Arbitrator? [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Glavischnig) you too! You too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: No! ...!]] Mr Schieder, which group do you belong to? - He doesn't listen, he doesn't do anything. In any event, we have been discussing these questions for a long time, and the need is obvious. There have been different variants and models of how the Austrian Parliament, the National Council, can be dealt with more closely with EU issues. There was a discussion of whether to include parts specific to the normal debates in the EU or whether – and on this we have now agreed – you can hold your own national Council meetings on EU issues. Of course, the legitimate question came, as it is at present, but on the other hand, Mr Schieder, the question arises as to how far the debates and the content are foreseeable, especially when it comes to finding competent contacts on the government bank. That is why there was a request from the government to have a certain lead time for these debates. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The normal National Council is the case, and in EU matters...? You don't want to take a chance!]] – What risk? Excuse me, but that's really not a risk! [[Abg. Arbitrator: That a minister may not know something!]] You have not answered me yet to the question of which group you are now part: of those who still cry after the government, or of those who already hope that they will soon come to the government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I think Parliament should have more rights on these issues!]] Yes, it is wonderful, but see that now as a good first step! It will be up to us and also to you that we will benefit from the possibility of these debates, which we now decide, in the sense of how today's debate was held at an early stage, namely at a high level, quite controversial and towards the further development and participation of Austria in the European Union and the institutions of the European Union. But, Mr Schieder, there are, of course, different models. At the beginning of these debates, I could also imagine making an hour's notice on EU issues. That was a point of discussion, because we did not agree that this could be a next step. But I don't think it's right now either that you say that's a compromise, and you add up everything that's bad and it's like it's nothing at all. With this first step, let us create the opportunity to take further steps by truly fulfilling these debates. It is also interesting that it is the first time we have structured debates here in the Austrian National Council, predictable debates, as is the case in the Council of Europe, where we have time limits, where we know what opportunities there are and which are not. So I think that can be quite exciting, and it will be up to us how we use this opportunity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Greens, as I have just seen, have tabled an additional request for the setting up of committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as I can remember, we have agreed that in this proposal we will focus solely on the participation of the National Council in EU issues and will not set any further regulatory initiatives. That is why I am surprised that this request is now being tabled in a way that is overwhelming. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This has already been discussed in the committee!]] Yes, but we have reached an agreement in the Presidential. You know that we have nothing against it, quite the contrary, that the Committee of Inquiry should be set up as a minority law, but – we have discussed it very intensively in the Convention – there must also be framework conditions to ensure that this instrument can be used in a manner that is efficient and not misused. We are always ready for this discussion, and I hope that the Special Committee will have the opportunity to do so. But now we are tabling additional proposals, which is not the serious treatment that we are imagining for this important question.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10015	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10036	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Rules of Procedure are usually very good if they are well prepared and can be adopted in consensus. I give Mr Schieder the right, we have been discussing this for a very long time, and it has continued to go downward. The original draft of President Khol was very, much better than what we now decide. That's not a question at all. The fact is that the government groups were not very interested in making this European day very exciting. I am also somewhat concerned that these debates will become a series of very long-term issues, which have been announced for a very long time, and that the interest of the people in very pointed and keen discussions about what is actually happening in the European Union cannot be covered. The deadline was also a thorn in our eye: eight weeks, that's very long. Nor do I really see why we can bring ministers to the house for a current hour, Question Time, and also for urgent questions in the short term, but not for such a European day. However, the situation of this day of Europe is more important to us than to junctify the fulfilment of our proposals for improvement with an agreement. We would have had nothing against the fact that Members of the European Parliament could speak here on this pult. I do not understand why this should actually be a problem for the political groups. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The amendment of the Rules of Procedure is coming about, and I hope that it will actually contribute to improving the European debate in this House. Through the EU Subcommittee, there is the possibility that the National Council will actually participate in EU decisions through binding opinions. It is unfortunate that this has not been done once since 2000. Austria has this almost unique power of participation in Europe by the Austrian National Council, and it is very a pity that a majority in the House take this power of participation so little seriously and so little. I would also like to refer briefly to other Rules of Procedure, which are actually necessary. We will, as has been said, of course agree with this amendment, and we will continue to support the possibility of extending and improving it, but all the other requirements that a modern Rules of Procedure require are still not from the table. We have therefore tabled an additional proposal which has been in this House for a very long time, which has been reintroduced at the beginning of this year, especially now in the light of the fact that all the parties sitting here in the House do not know who will be the next government, but also all here in this House must be interested in effective control. Effective control increases the quality of decisions and is basically tax money for citizens when they are carried out. I would like to quote briefly from a FPÖ Constitutional Brochure, which has been addressed to me in the context of the Convention, where, in my view, the question of the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law is presented very correctly and decisively. I quote: The establishment of the Committee of Inquiry is an efficient means of parliamentary control. Of course, the control activity relates in particular to the activities of the administration. Since the highest institutions of execution in a parliamentary democracy must always be borne by the confidence of the majority of the legislative bodies, it is almost counterproductive to make consent to the establishment of an important parliamentary control instrument dependent on the consent of this majority. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who wrote this, Mrs. Colleague?]] This writing is called “Freedom of the Constitution”, Klubobmann Scheibner wrote this. There are still some other interesting things inside, such as the parliamentary majority by postponement of committees, by means of collective laws, and so on Parliamentaryism with feet. We will discuss this in another appropriate place. For us this is really a very, very important question. The establishment of a committee of inquiry as a minority law is something that is very important for the people. She wants effective control. And that this can also be carried out in a very responsible form, this shows us the possibilities in the Vienna Landtag, which also shows us other countries, which also shows us Germany. I don't think you need to be afraid of that. So in the light of the background that no one knows who will be the next opposition, who will be the next government, but efficient control is the um and op in a functioning democracy, I propose the following additional request: In addition, Mr Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, to the request made by Mr Dr Andreas Khol, Mr Mag. Barbara Prammer, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Dr. Josef Cap, Herbert Scheibner, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. The National Council wants to decide: The application for a law referred to at the outset is supplemented by the following: The following points 4 and 5 are added after point 3. ‘4. The previous § 33 para. 3 is given the designation ‘(5)’. § 33 para. 3 (new) and 4 read:,(3) On the basis of a request from a third of the Members, the National Council shall set up an investigative committee. This desire has the conditions of the Abs. 1 to be met. If a committee of inquiry has already been set up on the basis of such a request, it shall be prohibited to set up on the basis of another such request. (4) On the basis of a request from all members of a club, the National Council shall set up an investigative committee. This desire has the conditions of the Abs. 1 to be met. If an investigation committee is already set up on the basis of a club’s request, it is not permitted to set up on the basis of a further request of the same club.” 5. In § 57a para. 1 lit. (c) after the word ‘appendix’ the word sequence ‘or the request’ shall be inserted.’ I have justified this request. I think that the Freedom Party may recall its roots, where it once was, in opposition, which may be the case again during the next legislative period, and therefore I hope that it will agree to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10113	The supplementary request of Members Glawischnig, friends and friends, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10202	The next speaker was Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10224	Mr President. High house! Member of the Arbitrator! I take the criticism made by you very seriously, especially today, on which a historic event took place. This Europe, of course, was also marked by contradictions and by co-operation, and it is, I believe, also necessary to bring it into the debate, which benefits further development, and therefore we should also discuss it. However, what I cannot take very seriously is that the Committee debate was actually very short and that, in my opinion, the Committee's own-initiative proposal was not addressed at all, this debate was not held by you there. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I said the same thing there!]] Yes, something has been brought in, but in the short debate that has been held there, it has certainly not been about setting up an investigation committee. I believe that with the introduction of these European days in Parliament four times a year, we are taking an important step towards this House's obligation to provide information, and that is quite simply necessary. If we know that 65 percent of all decisions are taken in Brussels, but only around 42 percent of the population have participated in the last EU election, then we must comply with our duty at all levels, whether at regional, local or domestic level, namely to inform citizens of what is happening in Europe, what is happening in Europe for this country. I think we can be proud of the development in this European Community, for example, Ireland: at that time one of the poorest countries in the European Community, today one of the richest. Austria is the second largest country in this European Community. The export rate of Austria increased by 10 percent: Exports of around 10 billion are made by Austria today to the European Community. We can be proud of this, and people should know it outside. We should bring people closer to the achievements that have been achieved over the last fifty years. It has already been mentioned a lot: from Robert Schuman to the Coal-Gas Agreement. It was originally an economic concept, which actually became a peace concept and contributed to the fact that 60 years ago, especially in the commemorative year, the European nations found it a very important aspect, in order to achieve a peace project that enables our generation to live in peace. We belong to that generation that can live the longest in this Austria in freedom and peace. This is the true idea of Europe, and that criticism that is being brought here should lead us to come together in further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10260	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10282	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If we have been discussing Europe and Europeans' issues for hours, we should also remember our clear commitment and the yes to this four-party request: If we had not had a 42.7 percent vote in the last EU election, we would probably not have had a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and would not have discussed this issue today. Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that all of us here together are really taking this issue as seriously as we have been discussing it for hours now. But, Mr President, I also said this in committee, this can only be a first step, which must be followed by many steps, as Mr Schieder has already done. Because logically it is not that we install a kind of second parliamentaryism – that is now my word – here. If we want to work together on the issues of Europe, which concern people in the Member States in terms of content here for our citizens, I would also like to ask why we cannot discuss this quite normally in the context of our plenary sessions with all the business regulations. I believe that this must also be the final objective of our joint work, and I hope that this is an incentive not only in the field of EU issues but also in addition. There are numerous proposals and requests to do so. Our group has indeed put forward many proposals for the revision of our Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about our Rules of Procedure, and we should all actually be interested in the fact that we may have a modern, well-functioning Rules of Procedure in the remainder of this legislative period. That's my hope. Therefore, the appeal to you, dear Chairman of the Committee: On the basis of this first step on EU issues, let us try to adapt our Rules of Procedure today! I understood, at least as far as the subject area is concerned, where we are concerned, that we are trying more strongly to bring about a gradual introduction to a whole, I say again, normal parliamentaryism. If we want to put all that we have been expressing to all the public for hours now in reality, we will also need a Rules of Procedure which will allow this to happen. I would also like to point out, Mr President, that we should really consider this with this long term. It is really difficult to deal with current issues here during a period of eight weeks. We live in the Internet age! I think many or all who sit here use the Internet. That is, we may be talking here without interruption of an old hat that has long been overcrowded. All professionals in this hall know that. That is why we should start: The issues that the political groups are bringing in must be very topical – otherwise we will not even take seriously what we are going to decide here in a few moments. I also believe that media coverage will be of enormous importance so that our citizens can see that the national Parliament is dealing with so important issues for the people of our home country, but also with the important issues for the whole European Union. We very much agree with this first step, but expect and hope that we can also take up the work in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on other issues and implement these points with all satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10342	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10363	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not quite understand why the question of supplementary request is now causing such great excitement. Let's recapitulate this again: At the beginning of this legislative period, there were applications for the establishment of a committee of inquiry as a minority right – I think these applications were also from the SPÖ, but in any case from the Greens. The question that has arisen was whether there is a junkim that we want to talk about the EU amendments only if other regulatory amendments are linked to them. – Our commitment was: We won't do that. We can imagine agreeing to these EU regulations, not only if there is consensus on the issue of the establishment of a committee of inquiry as a minority right, but also the amendment. That is what we have followed. It was also true that the request was not on the Committee's agenda. The fact that we are not allowed to make an additional request at the time of the vote, or that this would be against the agreement, is simply incorrect. I don't know what you're afraid of. It is known that we have been demanding this for years, is also known that as government parties you do not want it. In any case, the ÖVP has not wanted to do this for a long time, but it has always changed with the FPÖ/BZÖ. Now we've just documented that you're going to reject it. I think it is positive that, in the sense of parliamentarianism, applications for which there is no majority will at least be put to the vote, because it is part of the culture that what the government parties do not want no longer land in this House. – I think it’s very positive that this is a success today. To the content itself: It has been mentioned on several occasions that the deadline is quite in the way of a lively debate at eight weeks. But now something we can come back to when we talk about agreement culture: In fact, the issue can be changed a week before the meeting, but only with consensus in the presidential. . We will look very closely at how the government parties will react when applications come to change the subject in the short term. It will also be up to you to see if this instrument will come to life, because no one in the population will understand when perhaps a few days before a plenary session of the EU will suddenly be up-to-date, but in the National Council it will simply be possible to do so. It is simply not discussed because there is no consensus in the President on changing the subject. – We all won’t last long, I say, because criticism will come. The responsibility lies in this case with those who have said that we need the long term. It will also be seen if you are going to meet the intention that EU issues should be more important to the public. The question, of course, is also how the media will deal with these EU days. What we are discussing here in the house has a well-knownly limited public. I believe in principle that the process, namely four blocks of topics, which are de facto designed like a urgent request, in a manageable time frame, offers an opportunity. These meetings will also not last until night. Whether the media record this in the sense will become a central question, as more courage would have done well. Also the implementation of the suggestion to do something like a current hour, where we would have known that there is a public for this because it is usually transferred by the ORF to provide such an urgent instrument would have made sense. We could also have talked about the things that are now being transferred by the ORF. One should perhaps reflect on whether Question Time, as it is handled, is a super instrument to present this House to the public. There is de facto no possibility of exchange, there is no way to have a meaningful discussion, because each time you start two sentences as a questioner, you start screaming the government parties because it is terrible that the opposition representatives have a few seconds more speaking time, although the ministers can then explain their answers for over 5 minutes. – Whether this is a modern instrument of a sensible parliamentary Rules of Procedure, you should consider it. One could also look at instruments of the German Bundestag, where, for example, the interlocutory speech, i.e. the possibility of entering the debate in the short term, is limited. Perhaps one could also trust in Austria to introduce this without the pillars of this house falling at once. – A little more courage would do the government parties well.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10419	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10440	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! From my own point of view, In principle, there is agreement on this reform of the Rules of Procedure with all the critical points that have already been noted by previous speakers of the Greens and SPÖs. One point that surprises and disturbs me in particular is that neither MEPs of Europe nor Commissioners will have the opportunity to speak. Relatively many of them are not Austrian citizens, but I would have found that very invigorating for such debates. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But if you say that this is just a first step, then I hope that there will be the next one soon. My concern in the context of this speech is also with the Rules of Procedure, namely the EU Subcommittee. Mr Spindelegger mentioned that there is this – we have it. Ladies and gentlemen! We have it, but only virtually, we do not really have this committee, because it almost never takes place a meeting, although we all know how important it is to discuss EU issues more thoroughly in this House. I would like to give you a brief presentation of what has happened recently. ==References== July 2004 all parties agreed that a long-term planning of the meeting calendar of the Subcommittee would be useful and a meeting a month – a meeting a month! – would be useful. – Do you know how many took place in the second half of last year? - One! And this year there was also only one in the first quarter, early January. - That's it! That's all there was! If you ask me why this is so, I have to pass the question on to the empty government bank on the one hand, on the other hand, but on the other hand very well to the Members of ÖVP and FPÖ on the other. Unfortunately, the members of the government have little time for it and are not scheduled for it. [[Abg. Silhavy: Look here!]] Debates of the European Parliament – Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a serious deal with the question of EU issues in this House! Something's wrong, there's no seriousity. – I can only ask the members of the government of ÖVP/FPÖ/BZÖ, whoever they belong to now, to come. A real example: A date is set for the day after tomorrow. To date, we do not know whether a minister or a minister will have time and on which subject, although even the government groups now have the right to propose the content! To date, we do not know whether this committee meeting is at all taking place. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! As I said, It is important to discuss EU issues more widely in this House, including in the plenary session, but it must not be possible for the committee meetings to take place, although there is an agreement in the Presidency that important issues of content can be dealt with intensively with with with by the relevant ministers. Parade is Minister of Finance Grasser. There is, I believe, still no date for a year to finally discuss the Stability Pact with him in this subcommittee. [[Abg. Mandak: Because he's in Capri!]] – Probably he's always on Capri or elsewhere. But it can't be that government work works in such a way that you no longer speak and answer Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! On the occasion of these changes in the Rules of Procedure, which will actually bring more European issues on the agenda for the plenary session, I would like to ask you and ask you to ensure that your ministers observe the dates of the EU Subcommittees.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10496	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore vote on the draft law in 881 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional request. The present draft and the supplementary request concerning the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council referred to above may be submitted in accordance with Article 30. Abs. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act will be adopted only in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I will therefore first vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Glawischnig, colleagues and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The Members of Parliament, Dr Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning §§ 33 and 57a. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this supplementary request. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who speak for it to be a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. This draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at second reading. In accordance with Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of this draft law may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the conclusion of the second reading. It will be on the agenda for tomorrow's meeting. [[14:10:16]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (691, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol pursuant to Article 43(1) of the Convention on the establishment of a European Police Office (Europol Convention) amending this Convention (880 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10572	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Pilz. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10600	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed the agreement in detail in the Committee, so I can keep my remarks here in plenary. I would just like to point out some problems in the matter and a problem in cooperation between the clubs. In the matter, it's clear: Of course, in times when organised crime has long overcome the borders, it is necessary to ensure cross-border control of this crime. A Europe that gives itself a common constitution must also create a functioning cooperation in the police and in the general security field, and it is important to do so. Now there are so-called work facilitations that express themselves in the form of data transfer and interfaces. In the future, police authorities will no longer be able to exchange data from one state to another via a single central interface, but they will be able to do so in direct contact. And Together with the possibility of pursuing a much more efficient security policy, this poses a much larger problem of Austrian and European data protection. I have had the impression that this is being taken seriously in the Committee on the Interior. We need regulation. There is not only a need for regulation in European data protection, but above all in the field of control, in which comprehensive and comprehensible control – including parliamentaryly comprehensible – is available. On this very point, we see that there is a strange problem in the European Union, which I have pointed out in the Committee and which I would like to repeat here. At the time, we could only – the courts did not play there – police officers who were close to the FPÖ at the time, in fact without any difficulty prove the abuse of personal data in the police sector because there is a complete logging of the queries in Austria. Suddenly, we note that this is not planned in the European Union. This is not a technical problem. You can run the logging automatically, and once something happens, you can easily find out who asked and where it came to an abuse. This is a very crucial instrument. People are seeing today, there is a surveillance camera, there I am taken from the fingerprint, there I want my biometric data, there one wants to be able to track genetic traces, also with the structured knowledge of my genome. As a result, more and more citizens demand careful handling and effective control. The European Union either did not understand it, or there are those responsible there who say: We just want an exclusive and sample-like logging. And that's too little. This is not a technical problem, and we have been confirmed by the experts of the Ministry of the Interior. I see here immediately so that the discussion does not go in the wrong direction: The Minister for the Interior not only took note of the problem, but also said that she wanted to work to ensure that it was fully logged. In addition, I say, well, that was a success in the Committee, which was one of these far too rare examples of a very constructive committee work together with the Minister for the Interior. And I assume that there will be this initiative. Now it would have been the simplest thing in the world to make a common proposal, which is also in our interest. I or my staff were contacted by the corresponding club employee of the ÖVP. I said: All that is contained in the request is wonderful, but please also take this sentence on full logging – a matter of course. The answer was: We have already discussed this in our ÖVP bodies, and that is why we cannot change it now because it has been so decided on by us. Mrs Minister, I am not addressing this to you because you are not responsible for the ÖVP club, but for the Members, for the leadership of the Austrian People's Party: If you want us to do something together here, we will also talk about it together, and then do not make your club-internal decisions on the joint work of all the political groups in the Committee on the Interior. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is about maintaining this minimum level of parliamentary culture, and I know, on the basis of cooperation with colleagues Miedl, but also with a number of others, that in many areas this is not only excellent at personal level. Let us, together, try to make it clear to the ÖVP that this must be different, not for objective reasons, But because this way of dealing with the clubs cannot be the kind of parliament, according to the motto of letting the opposition run somewhere. That is why we will not vote for this motion for a resolution today – and only for these reasons. Nevertheless: Do you appreciate my contribution to the debate and also our joint work in the Committee on the Interior as an indication that we can work together more constructively in the matter ourselves, and I assume that we will do the same. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10672	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10693	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I very much regret that the Greens do not agree to this agreement. I believe that we have discussed this amendment to the Europol Convention very thoroughly. For us, data protection also has a very high priority, and it has, of course, been discussed in the Committee that this data protection is to be fully respected. The Data Protection Council has also been advised to decide at a high level on this change of law. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The priority of today's decision-making is, of course, the protection of citizens from international crime. All that the fight against crime is good, we must try to implement it and is positive. International crime can only be combated internationally, and that is why it is very important that there be Europol since 1999 and of course there is also a very close cooperation with Interpol. Today's decision to amend the Europol Convention is an important step towards better combating international crime. We are committed to cooperation between the police authorities at European and international level, because it is only by doing so that we can effectively resist the modern forms of crime. We are committed to this international cooperation because it concerns the security of Austrian citizens. Europol will be better able to play its central role in the fight against crime in the future. That is, in itself, the amendment of this Convention. In concrete terms, Europol is currently responsible for illicit drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, car crime, terrorism and illegal trafficking in nuclear and radioactive substances, and today it is intended to be extended to prevent and combat money laundering. Another and essential point – and this has also been addressed by my previous speaker – is the re-regulation of the data query. The data survey has so far been allowed only to a limited circle of Europol officials. The national authorities will now also be able to raise a general question. Content surveys may only be made by Europol as before. Europol must, at the same time, create an instrument for ensuring the legality of data surveys. This is, I believe, a principle in this amendment to the Europol Convention: The legality of the data surveys must be ensured! Of course, the issues of data protection law are constantly raised in the case of extension of competence in the police sector. As I said, The Austrian The Data Protection Council reviewed the amendment of the Europol Convention and found it to be in order. Let me add another comment: It is not easy to guarantee the greatest possible security on the one hand and at the same time guarantee absolute freedom. If security is to be ensured for citizens, then the legal framework must also be agreed. Today, we are taking an important forward-looking step towards combating international crime. Austria is thus committed to a Europe with greater security. We stand for a modern Europe, which we have already discussed in depth today, which is also able to protect its citizens as best as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10748	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10769	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Europol Convention we are discussing today represents an important step in combating crime. That's not a question. It is quite simply about the safety of people in this country. The Social Democrats have always been committed to international cooperation in many areas, including this. This improved cooperation between the authorities in the fight against serious international crimes, such as drug offences, trafficking in human beings and others, is, as has been said, the content of this Convention. So far, this has already been carried out, Europol has been a kind of analytical station whose results have been used by the other Member States. Now there is a step towards operational activity, which is good. This means, among other things, that the Member States and Europol have the opportunity to access the data necessary for the fight against crime. Mr Pilz has rightly noted that this is very sensitive data. That's not a question. Therefore, the Committee has agreed that we want to make a committee statement, which is about the following: The Minister is invited to intervene in the framework of Europol for a full protocol of the questions. I just asked colleagues about this. He assured that this Committee would now also be present in the plenary session. He shall not take part in the resolution, the law or the agreement. But this agreement is held by all four parties, and I think that is important. It is a measure that hopefully serves to stop any abuse. Mrs Bundesminister, we assume that you will prevail in Europe! We are happy to see you report to Parliament in a very short time that our wishes we have addressed to you will also be fulfilled. The situation is as follows: If one assumes that all of us are committed to seeing the security of the population as something very important, then it is not only about international agreements, but also about the perfect performance of homework. With regard to your opinion on the high rate of crime in Austria, and the extremely low level of information, I am somewhat shaken, Mrs Federal Minister! I have to mention this again in the high house. In a press release, you said the following, I quote you: (...) this high security standard, which it is to be maintained. – If you are talking about a high security standard that you want, this would mean, among other things, that you continue to consider 600 000 crimes and a reconnaissance rate of about 38 percent to be a great story. Mr Kößl referred back to the European situation and said that it was a European phenomenon that crime is rising everywhere. I suggest you compare the Austrian figures with those from Baden-Württemberg. Baden-Württemberg has 580 000 crimes in 10,5 million inhabitants, which remained approximately the same at a 55 percent investigation rate over a ten-year average. However, more than 1,000 executives were employed there in two years. The comparison with Bavaria, which has 12 million inhabitants, shows: In 1999, 680 000 crimes were reported in Bavaria, and in Austria there were 490,000 crimes. The education rate in Bavaria was 65 percent, and in Austria 55 percent. In 2004 in Bavaria there was an increase in crime by 34 000 to 714 000 and an increase in the investigation rate from 65.3 percent to 65.6 percent. In Austria, there has been a massive increase in crime by over 150 000 to 640 000, with the rate of investigation falling from 55 percent to 38 percent. However, there were more jobs in Bavaria in the period of 2 700 officials – but thousands less in Austria. This, Mrs. Minister, is the wrong way you're going! I call on you to do your homework in this regard and not just to conclude international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10833	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10855	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! From the school bank it goes back to the European level. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Ah so? That was the school bench?]] - Yes, that was school bench, your level! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Fourth grade folk school!]] One thing has to be clear to all of us: Crime has no limits! She's never had her before, and she'll never have her. This results in the need for international cooperation. This problem of cross-border organised crime has long been underestimated in Europe and has also led to the current high levels of crime across Europe. The first measure was adopted with the introduction of Europol. This is a further step in the right direction, a step towards a new regulation of the objectives and the expansion of Europol's competences, which will create more security for the European population as a whole. But what is necessary in this cooperation – as I agree with Mr Pilz – is the intensification of the data exchange, because – you should not pretend – everything is now running electronically. It's all about interfaces, online queries. And this is certainly a particular problem that needs to be looked at more closely. What exactly is regulated in this regard? – On the one hand, there are the extended authorizations for the processing of personal data. Personal data should in itself be treated very sensitively. Furthermore, there is an extension of the circle of accessors and a permission for Europol to use and process personal data from external data points. That is another problem. In addition, the extension of the competence of the Director of Europol, which is also something to be considered problematic. That was also the reason why we agreed on a four-party agreement on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which calls on you, Mrs Federal Minister, to insist on a full recording of these data. Only that allows data control to be comprehensible. It must be understandable who asks which data. Thus, it can be made possible for the citizen and the citizen to be sure that the data are not misused. In summary, it must be said that data exchange is a problem, but it is a problem that has been recognized and deposited and that I am convinced that it will be implemented by the Federal Minister in the interests of Parliament. Despite all these problems, I believe that the intensification of data exchange is an absolute necessity in order to be able to combat international organised crime more successfully in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10908	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10929	Mr President. My dear Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to a study by university professor Dr. Schneider of the University of Linz, 1.4 trillion US dollars of money laundering went to the University of Linz in 2004. You have to imagine what sum of money these are! It is only too understandable for people in Austria and across Europe to say: We need new strategies. We need to reorientate. It is precisely this form of crime that we must be very vehemently opposed! Above all, this is understandable when one knows that these summaries can in fact achieve our democratic system through the destabilisation of the economy. What does that include? – It has already been said a lot. As the next speaker, it is very difficult to get things to the point. – It is essentially that money counterfeiting and money laundering must be subject to precise police control. It goes on to say that, of course, we take data protection very seriously. We have requested full protocoling in the Committee and it is taking place. I think that we are doing quite well for parliamentarians. The major problem is basic crime in this area, ladies and gentlemen. We know that the money comes from drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, the many frauds and also organised crime. This basic crime must also be countered by all means! A lot of things have already been said about this. Finally, I would like to say one thing – I don't want to spread there any further –: Austria is a truly safe country! The comparison makes us sure! [[Abg. May. Worm: Baden-Württemberg!]] Mrs Bundesminister, for which I am very grateful personally, is the following: For the first time in the security sector We have created a monitoring system in Austria, which enables the security to be precisely controlled from month to month and from year to year. There has been no such thing so far. That means: We can say from month to month how safety develops in which areas. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes! Negative! That's the problem!]] One can say which types of crime develop in which districts. That means you can control this for the first time. [[Abg. May. Worm: We used to be unable to say it exactly, but we had less crime!]] There is transparency. There is transparency for us politicians. We know where to put the lever. And, Mrs Colleague, there is, of course, also transparency for the safety professionals themselves. It's new! There has been no such thing so far. I am personally very grateful for this because we, Mrs Federal Minister, have nothing to hide in the security field. The figures that are there belong to the table, and it must be worked against crime at all levels! We cordially invite you to join us! – In this sense: thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10995	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11016	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Miedl, the right signal would, of course, be to stop the reduction of personnel in the field of safety and executives and to get rid of this saving rate. Then we would have more police on the street, and security would be better guaranteed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! We are in favour of extending Europol's area of competence. Europol – we know – is a very important pillar in the fight against crime in the European area and is becoming increasingly important and important. It is therefore necessary to grant Europol more rights. But, of course, more rights also require more control, especially parliamentary control! It seems important to us that control is given at national level. These legal guarantees must be secured. In the past, Europol has, above all, collected, developed and analysed data across Europe. That's what has already been said. Europol is now more active in the operational field. Therefore, in the future, there will be a need for increased control in this area, with data protection regulations having to be strengthened, as they are not yet available to the desired extent. There is still a need for action in this area, Mrs Federal Minister. We've already talked about it: Full logging for queries is required. There was an initiative in this regard, and I really wish you every success that you are going through with the Europol Board of Directors. Put to the vote and aim, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we shall vote in favour. However, I would like to stress once again: There must be a guarantee that the Data Protection Council will be involved very early in the case of European projects which are relevant to data protection, so that the necessary changes can be made. Above all, Parliamentary control must be ensured, and we want to act together for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11062	I call Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11083	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Europol aims to improve the performance of the competent authorities of the Member States and their cooperation in order to increase the fight against international organised crime and to contribute to the prevention and fight against terrorism. In order for Europol to be able to play its central role effectively in European cooperation, it is necessary to make constant adjustments to meet the requirements effectively. In addition to improving cooperation between Member States, the current amendment to the Europol Convention, in particular the re-regulation of tasks in relations with third countries and third countries relating to euro counterfeiting, will be adopted. By extending the area of competence to prevent and combat money laundering, Europol has an effective tool to prevent and combat serious international crime. In order to be able to act in the best possible way, direct information exchange between Europol and the national authorities is necessary in compliance with the data protection directives and simplification of the processing systems of asylum analysis data. A logging of the queries of personal data from information collections is a necessary means of suffocating data abuse in the germ. That is why we are striving to do this. The current crime statistics, ladies and gentlemen, show that the crime rate in Austria fell by 4 per cent in April and the education rate increased by 1.7 per cent. This confirms Austria's modern and efficient way to combat crime and in turn testifies that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. Mrs Federal Minister, continue along this path! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this extension of the Europol Convention, we have thus succeeded in a further step towards a secure Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11133	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11154	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We managed to discuss the issue of data exchange under the Europol Convention in the Austrian Data Protection Council. The Data Protection Council has produced a very detailed opinion on issues relating to data transmission, logging and the like. As members of the Data Protection Council, we believe that the Data Protection Council should be involved much earlier in the discussions on laws, especially in the case of international laws. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can invite you to accept this request. I just want to remind you: Data protection issues arise in the case of high-security creases, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the issue of the maintenance of data on the other hand. Data protection is a constitutional right. Support this request!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11230	Mr Magistrate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Parnigoni, colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore negotiating. The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11260	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the organized international crime does not stop even before Austria. Measures are therefore urgently needed. That is why Austria has already participated in the European Police Office, Europol, at an early stage. The ministers of the ÖVP have responded correctly. Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your excellent work! The crime rate is falling, the education rate is increasing, and today's media can be seen. – So much for Mr Parnigoni's accusations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Cooperation with Europol Member States should be further improved with this government template. In the fight against organised international crime, good cooperation and communication between the different countries are the change. Furthermore, a change in the way criminal links work requires a new regulation of Europol's tasks in its relations with third countries. The amendment of this Convention will allow direct information exchange between Europol and the national law enforcement authorities. This, ladies and gentlemen, improves the quality of investigations and accelerates procedures. I would also like to highlight the possibility for Europol to also request personal data from other information systems, which are fundamental to other conventions. Of course, data protection provisions must not be violated. In this context, I would like to stress that the Data Protection Council in an opinion also welcomes the amendment of the Convention and thereby the strengthening of Europol's fight against crime. This ensures the privacy of our citizens. As an important point, I also see that the European Parliament will be able to step up its involvement and control of Europol in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This Protocol adapts to the current problems and helps to improve cooperation between the Member States of the Europol Convention. – I would like to give my consent to this, so that Austria will remain a safe country in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11312	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11333	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are all very aware and well aware that domestic and international crime is increasing, and it is therefore essential that cross-border police cooperation be carried out. Unfortunately, the criminals are becoming increasingly international. The first address for the fight against crime in Europe is the European Police Office, Europol. In order to be able to play the central role in European police cooperation even more effectively, Europol support for the national police authorities and further improve cooperation between Member States must be strengthened. The importance of improving the impact of Europol shows the latest data in many areas. The following example: In the euro area, more and more counterfeit money is secured. According to Europol, last year, police and banks confiscated 900,000 counterfeit banknotes worth about €45 million. In 2003, “only” – and that was marked by quotation – 570,000 false appearances had been discovered. In the euro area as a whole, the number of euro counterfeits seized by European police authorities alone increased by 300 percent to 309,000 euros compared to 2003. The problem is that counterfeiting is becoming more and more professional. If only cheap color copies were in circulation three years ago, two of three counterfeit banknotes are already printed and thus even more difficult to distinguish from real notes. The upgrading of Europol is therefore a command of the hour, and that is why we agree with the Convention that is under discussion. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) However, this must not be concealed from the fact that the closures of Gendarmerieposten and the grievances with local police plan posts as well as the downsaving of domestic executives in the country exactly the opposite and thus wrong way was taken by this federal government. Mrs Bundesminister, I therefore ask you: Strengthen also domestically the force of the police and end the wrong policy that has been handed over to you by your predecessor!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11382	Mrs Pepper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11403	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is beginning to grow together and to form a unity. The artificially drawn and blocked boundaries have fallen. Especially for me, which I had to live with and next to the Iron Curtain for a long time, any cooperation with the countries around Austria is very important and a step in the right direction. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hornek.]] But this cooperation is not only welcome in a positive way, but also the negative aspects must be observed, and one must try to counteract it. The current government template on the establishment of a European Police Office, the so-called Europol Convention, strengthens and regulates this cooperation across countries. Europol's competences are also to be expanded. This too is an important point, in terms of security, to become active for our people and also to reduce crime. We will vote in favour of this request, although we are concerned to observe the protocoling system and the level of data protection. We must be aware of the need for data protection. Therefore, our request to you, Mrs Federal Minister, to observe and take into account critical objections from the Data Protection Council. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11448	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11470	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As early as January 2004, we discussed and decided to extend Europol's rights here in this House, and about a year later we will discuss this again. It can be seen that this Convention, which is a very dynamic project for this European police, repeatedly requires adaptations and draws on what is obviously to be responded to. That, I think, is good. In the course of the Committee discussion, you, Mrs. Minister, have promised that you will still raise the relevant objections to data protection in the Board of Directors. I believe that this is a very necessary measure, which is still a weakness in this Convention. In its opinion in an eight-page opinion, the Data Protection Council pointed out that there is still a lot to be done to anchor the high data protection standard we have in Austria at European level. That, I think, is something very central. We want the European police to receive as much confidence from the population as the Austrian police. We should achieve this for the European Police Office, and this is possible with the appropriate standards. I wish you, Mrs Minister, much success in maintaining this concern and I hope that we will soon hear from you about it. On the one hand, I hope to have a report on what has already been done and brought to the knowledge of the European police, and on the other hand – even because today the European Constitution has been ratified by us – what it will look like with the control rights of the European Parliamentarians in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11503	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. - Please take a seat! Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 691 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG that the embodiment of Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish language versions in its by means of the bug report information of 23. On 2 August 2004, the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs) issued a revised version of this State Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kößl, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier, Dr. Partik-Pablé, colleagues on strengthening data protection at European level, particularly with Europol. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. (E 101.) [[14:51:54]] 4. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-86, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors on sub-areas of the conduct of the Federal Government (872 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11576	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11604	High house! It's quite grotesque already: The Court of Auditors is now practicing devastating criticism of the chip card project – and then the head of the main association, Mr. Kandlhofer, sits in the committee and says he remains there: no euro, no cent unnecessarily fried! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Kandlhofer says he does not know a project in Europe where time and costs would have voted as in Austria. Further: There is no breach of law and all procedures would be in the best place. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] – Five minutes later, the President of the Court of Auditors says: With no exception, the delays alone have caused €7 million in additional costs! It's just too far to say that you'd kept to time limits! There are no decisions in the bodies; the main association originally wanted to attend seven experts, then it became 17 – plus external experts! And what are the ladies and gentlemen doing about the government groups? - You're totally unmoved! Completely unmoved! There's just an axe on your part. – Therefore, the basic question: Do we need another Court of Auditors, or is it already a “salt office ”? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you do not take reports and findings from the Court of Auditors seriously, we can save ourselves the money for them! Some examples of this your trend. The Minister of Finance has risen several times: First, Grasser was holding an opinion against the Court of Auditors. – Vieler then meant that the Court of Auditors could be locked right away. Or: On the devastating criticism of the Eurofighter deal, the Ministry of Finance is sending out that the Court of Auditors is supposed to praise the Ministry of Finance. Further example: Ms. Klasnic, future ex-land chief of Styria. In the case of EStAG, Klasnic has been forced to call the Court of Auditors. Then there is a result that you don't fit – and what does she say, ladies and gentlemen? – Klasnic says the “Group A” claims this and the “Group B” this, and with the “Group A” Waltraud Klasnic says the Court of Auditors! It really can't be like that! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As far as advisory agreements are concerned, I know that you do not agree, ladies and gentlemen, where there is massive waste of money and where the President of the Court of Auditors has long called for guidelines to be taken up by the ministries, using his own resources, you have defied this request from the government parties! [[new calls to the ÖVP]] As far as government advertising is concerned, of course, there are also recommendations from the Court of Auditors on how they should look, namely: Subject-matter information – and no party advertising! What, though, do you need to read with eyes just too wide open? – Orange policy to attack, Tingel tour through Austria! – At tax payment costs, there are now information leaflets, completely held in orange! That's incredible! Government offices are being abused for party work, there are illegal advertising campaigns, there are irregular brochures! This, ladies and gentlemen, is a misuse of tax money and, in fact, a violation of the Court of Auditors' directives. But later, in the debate on the urgent request – which you have just tabled to prevent such a move from being taken by the Green Group – you will certainly again be very grateful to the Court of Auditors for its achievements. Please bear in mind: You should take his results seriously, because in reality you are already making the Court of Auditors' function as the body of the National Council impossible!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11716	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11737	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague herbs, the e-card is here. What many SPÖ ministers have failed to achieve since 1996, Mrs. B. Rauch-Kallat created in a relatively short time. And, colleague herbs, I really can't understand your criticism of e-card! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Court of Auditors has probably shown that the issue of e-card is an infinite story, but, I think, even endless stories are ending. In 1996, the then Minister of Social Affairs, Hums, was commissioned here. A new invitation to tender was issued in 2003; in December 2004 the e-Card was launched in Burgenland. The current trial operation, colleague Herbs, gives hope that a comprehensive implementation of the e-card until 1. January 2006 is possible. In concrete terms, the Court of Auditors has complained: high costs with regard to experts; the amortisation period of 16 years instead of two years. There were no decisions, but there were also too high quality claims of the main association. Overall, there were delays in the decisions; explicitly, the Court of Auditors called the Chamber of Directors. There were coordination defects, but also refusals to introduce the e-card. The e-Card is a future project that places the highest demands on organisation, logistics and technology. With the e-card, there will be 42 million health certificates less in the future; there will be no more foreign health certificates; quality of service will be increased; operations are offset by bureaucracy; Procedures will be simplified and control will be improved. There is also a binding plan, so that, starting from Burgenland, the introduction of the e-card will be possible throughout Austria. It is currently true that many chip cards are being delivered to citizens as well as terminals to the established doctors. A view over the borders shows: Germany plans to introduce the chip card according to Austrian model. The customer satisfaction of the citizens with chip cards so far is 95.2 percent. The doctors who were very critical at the beginning now accept this card to 82.1 percent. I would like to thank the Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat, who, together with the main association – here I would like to expressly mention Mr Kandlhofer – has advanced this project and helped it to implement it. Yes, there were pans at this e-card; however, it is a perspective for the future. In any case, we stand by and hope to benefit all of them soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11798	I am now interrupting the debate on item 4 of the agenda, so that the required examination of a urgent request may take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:01]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Fritz Neugebauer, colleagues on the employment offensive of the Federal Government (600/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11828	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 600/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11994	I give the floor to Mr Neugebauer as an applicant for urgent procedure. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12021	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From the very historical theme of a constitution for Europe, a subject that has accompanied us for a long time this morning, to now – not the “news”, but to the celebration of our national policy. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Julius Raab was a very realistic German chancellor who, on the occasion of Austria's accession to the Council of Europe in 1956, evened a very exuberant Member who said this accession with the suggestion that one should actually revive, on the occasion of this accession, the spiritual values of the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation: It's right, but first we're going to change the accident insurance law. Ladies and gentlemen! Hand-fixed policy is also called...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12045	Mr Neugebauer, either a final sentence or after the urgent request. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Calls.]] - Ah, he's the first speaker to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12073	I quote Rürup – the President will immediately notice that I am on the subject after a brief introduction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] You didn't know? But, my colleague, you haven't been here in the house for a week. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I quote Rürup, the one on the occasion of the reform dialogue. In May: Austrian policy will not lead to work for more employment and growth. But this work takes place at a level where every German Chancellor would like to work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am very grateful to Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor for the invitation to this reform dialogue. It was already the twelfth invitation to current topics. And if I remember the occupied places correctly, no one has missed out on this invitation, which I very much welcome, because there must be a common scope of action on the issue of employment offensive, on employment and employment. And if the findings we have heard there and I may repeat briefly are correct, then the therapeutic measures can also be followed. The findings: Austria, with its labour market data, is in the absolute peak field. We have the lowest youth unemployment. – Some speakers have been responsible for youth unemployment in the reform dialogue PISA. I would like to point out that this is a tricky conclusion, because whatever you want to attach to our school system, one can, namely, qualify young people for the economy and for life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And I must say to those who believe that Finland should be brought before us, that Finland unfortunately has a double level of youth unemployment. I think that we are also making aware – and this has come out very well in this dialogue – that the wide range of apprenticeship promotions that have already been used needs to penetrate even more into the awareness of some entrepreneurs. We are third in Europe's unemployment, behind Ireland and Luxembourg, and yet it is up to the unemployed to face up to all that we can bring out from the so-called international unemployment. We have 3.2 million unemployed in Austria and have never had as many people in employment as we do now. [[Abg. Oillinger: The number is not right!]] We are one of the few EU countries that have already met the 2010 target of at least 70 percent of the working population in the working world. This is, of course, the result of measures that have already been put in place. Despite the great effort made to reduce debt, we have greatly strengthened domestic demand with the largest tax reform in the Second Republic. We have created a completely new, modern model for workers with the new finishing process, much more to the benefit of processing. With the “child money for all, ” we have brought relief to the families. We have greatly expanded the infrastructure. I can also say that the administration has made its contribution to service orientation and efficiency both in the federal and in the countries – I only call eGovernment, where we are the absolute top of Europe. Let us not forget the economic and growth packages that actually lead us to this very positive result, of which the prominent guest, former SPD Secretary General and now Commissioner Günter Verheugen, meant that most European Heads of Government would wish for the problems that the Austrian Chancellor has – “openly said”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I thank Mr. Federal Minister Bartenstein for the fact that he has disputed two main issues with the social partners – a finding must actually reflect the findings, except that you oppose him, Mr. Col. – that 350 people will be involved in the labour market service in the future in addition to advice and mediation – that is agreed with the President – and that in the field of the youth labour market, the continuation of the apprenticeship system will be decided under the Youth Training Act. [[Abg. Ollinger: Do you do a party now, or is this a urgent one? It's a celebration!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: If you feel it that way!]] Of the ten points that can be summarized in total, I would like to make a few words: the Federal Government's commitment, in particular the Federal Chancellor, to the parties present, the social partners, country representatives, university professors, business and economic researchers, to propose a stronger funding of research, namely a bond of €1 billion by 2010; and in addition, if we reach a research rate of 3 percent, it will also be possible to assert tax research, making a total of €1.3 billion more available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The prospect of extending the deadline for energy projects, which should soon expire, by the end of 2002, can, according to realistic, conservative estimates, bring jobs in the order of about 3,000. It is expected to provide €300 million for the infrastructure offensive, with acceleration of operating permits, because I think it is important to strengthen the bridges towards Central and Eastern Europe, as a special economic potential is possible in these regions. One particular concern that I have been able to articulate several times here in the House is the announcement of a rigorous fight against social and economic fraud, because it simply hinders the serious companies and ultimately does not add to the resources necessary for the financing of social networks. We have well pursued the activities of KIAB, control of illegal workers' employment. This area has been increased over and over again, but on the basis of reports that the organized economic fraud is still more concerned, it has been promised to double the staffing status there at least. I believe that the Commission, set up by the Ministry of Finance, will not miss its effectiveness. Finally, a commitment has been made to further intensify the broadband offensive by increasing the funding by €10 million. We are at the absolute top of the export. And I think that with these and other impulses we are creating quite additional jobs that can secure existing ones and also achieve corresponding economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of this reform dialogue, which is the start of a common national plan to be brought into the EU in autumn, I think: The start was successful! And with a good start, we will finally reach the desired goals.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12193	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12229	High house! After we are in the thought-year and today we have repeatedly reflected on the year 1945 and the years after, on the immediate post-war period when the UN called Austria as the country most threatened by famine and poverty, and also today's state of Austria, by others, by international institutes, and see that we are among the ten most developed, richest countries, as far as purchasing power and national income are concerned, we can say that it is actually an unanswered signal. At the same time, it is also a very positive signal for these generations of founders, who have not looked mercilessly and despondently into the future, but have determined their fate, taken our destiny into their hands and made something quite great out of it, for which we must heartily thank them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Many of the instruments created at that time are still working. If you remember that in 1948 the Marshall Plan, the help of the Americans for Europe, was put in place, that Austria had received about 1.5 billion dollars – that was a lot of money at the time – by the way, two thirds of them were made available free of interest – that this Marshall Plan was later re-transmitted into the ERP funds, the European Recovery Programme funds, and all of this is still having a positive and fruitful impact, namely in the newly founded research foundation with a total stock of about 3.5 billion euros, then you will see that history has very positive and fruitful effects to date. We should, therefore, now consider what measures are needed so that we can make the same statement in the coming years and decades. We are in the European Union today, we are taking advantage of these opportunities. And precisely because we want to make the Union a democratic Union, a social and economic union, we know that economy and work are the central basis on which everything is ultimately based. Full employment remains our major objective for Austrian economic and employment policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now I know that in the face of 260 000 unemployed people, we cannot be satisfied with this figure and with the results, even though we have record values in the numbers of employees, even if we are among the top 3 – Fritz Neugebauer has pointed out – in Europe. So what can we do to respond to the new challenges? There must be new answers, old economic policy with debt making has been served. With a country that imports 50 percent, every short-term impulse would immediately create half of the jobs elsewhere and not with us. We therefore need a very intelligent economic policy, which is a mixture: tax reductions to stimulate consumption; Location security via modern framework conditions, additional wage reductions, as we have done in recent years to relieve labour; Liberalisations, for example on the telephone, electricity, gas market, infrastructure reform, rail and infrastructure investments, so that we can quickly reach export and future markets; slim state, administrative reform, red tape; massive increase in research expenditure and liberation from universities; autonomy for educational institutions; abolition of the two-thirds majority; and perception of the opportunities we have through other areas – I can only think of airspace monitoring, remembering that we have previously landed counter-businesses with the European aviation industry of € 1 billion. All of this is part of an intelligent economic strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We now have 1st place. In May, it was invited to a reform dialogue on growth and employment. I really thank all those who have come, the representatives of the government parties, the opposition parties, all the social partners, including the countries. The only one who had only been there at the beginning and welcomed him was the mayor of Vienna, Michael Häupl, I then did not see him again during the session, he only made etched comments before the beginning of the meeting, which I personally felt was a pity, because, I think, it would be a common concern, as expressed in the discussion, Vienna also did well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What is the result of this reform dialogue? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – You don't need to defend Michael Häupl, he can do it himself. It divides out, and it can occasionally catch up with a critical word from the government bank. He deserves it sometimes, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So what was the outcome of this reform dialogue? . I would like to expressly thank the Vice-President of the European Commission Günter Verheugen, all of whom I appreciate, for taking part in this important meeting for five hours, for having also taken part and for making some very interesting and important contributions. We have agreed, certainly in advance with the economic researchers and with the social partners, that we want to set a great impetus in the area of infrastructure. We will spend more than €5 billion over the next two years, and we will also use 300 million again for acceleration measures. A total of 6 000 full-time jobs can be financed. In the medium term, this will give a lasting effect of about 500 permanent jobs in addition to today's scenario. This is an important impulse, which is particularly important for the development of the new markets in Central and Eastern Europe. The second point is even more spectacular. We want to launch a research offensive that has never taken place in Austria to this extent. The Bundesfinanzagentur will be authorised – we will propose our own federal law – to issue a research bond of € 1 billion. This bond, this 1 billion additional research money, is to flow directly into the research projects. Of course, we also want to get the Council of Research and Science. The various funds, universities and businesses will benefit from this. Of course, we also want to finance those projects that Austria has already catapulted far forward, in biochemistry, for example, the IMBA. Or just think of MedAustron, which is being planned and built. Think of Anton Seilinger's idea of an Austrian Institute of Science and Technology, think of the "House of Research" that will be opened next year. So: 1 billion € additional research money until 2010. This is not paid back from the budget, so that it is also clear, but is to be enshrined in the law, that privatization proceeds of the ÖIAGs, which we have made debt-free but which nevertheless have an almost equal participation value as at the time we took over them, namely, about €5 billion; 1 billion of this privatisation proceeds will flow to cover this research bond. [[Abg. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,]] An important impulse! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To this end, we are proposing a tax promotion. It is now also intended to be fully recognised in tax terms, which will help small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. This causes a tax downturn of about 50 million per year, converted to the six years by 2010 are the next 300 million – that is, 1.3 billion for research in this period! We appreciate – the IHS was questioned in this respect by me and the Minister of Finance – that this will allow for an effect of about 7,000 permanent jobs and at the same time a spectacular increase in the research rate in Austria. The third point is the procedural offensive. We would like to propose your own procedural acceleration law. It is clear that we also need the opposition's approval. It is a constitutional law in the field of the e-Economy if we want real accelerations in the second stage. I cordially invite you to go along with this. We could thus put a volume of investments of about €6 billion into the grid, into the expropriation of new or old power plants. In the field of trade regulations, there is a significant increase in the simplified procedure to 800 square meters: Employment volumes of approximately 4,000 to 5 000 jobs per year. In addition, a broadband offensive is coming especially for rural areas, in which the accusation is sometimes raised that it will be diluted, the now planned doubling of the broadband offensive from € 10 million to € 20 million, and the invitation to the federal states – I hope they will join them – to make another 10 million loose for it. Then we would have €30 million for the development of rural areas in particular. Minister for the Environment Josef Pröll has ensured that such broadband networks are included in the funding conditions in the settlement and water management funds. Employment volume: 200 jobs. Then Ecostrom: Extension of the period for compulsory first-time feed from already approved installations by one and a half years until the end of December 2007. Direct direct employment effect: 3 000 jobs. Sixteenths: Invite the social partners to launch an offensive for more flexible, practical working hours. We very much hope that this will make it possible to break through the wage rounds in autumn. We believe that this can lead to a substantial cost-saving and an increase in competitiveness, which could well mean 2 to 5 percent improvement in competitiveness. The seventh point is a qualification offensive, first in language early promotion, in day-to-day care. Over 300 pedagogues will be able to find an additional job immediately from autumn. Thank you to the Minister for Education, who today has a birthday! I would like to congratulate her from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And to do that, follow-up to the school degree. This could bring an additional relief effect on the labour market of about 1 000 jobs and also help to significantly increase the growth potential of Austria. Behind: apprenticeship offensive. In this regard, our commissioner Blum has devised a very modern, new funding, with the aim of giving each youth either a school education, a apprenticeship, a training course or an additional training in the enterprises. The cost is significant: We spend 120 million € alone for this apprenticeship promotion. In total, we expect about 2 000 additional permanent employment relationships. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The ninth point – hard to count – is an offensive against illegal employment and blackwork, especially against barber resistance and puss. In this sense, the anti-fraud unit of the Ministry of Finance is doubled to about 400 staff. The punishments should also be doubled. Here again, I very much hope that you will go along and that the employment effect is not just the 200 additional auditors, but that we will get about 3,000 to 4,000 - not black but legal - employment relations converted by the control. After all, more than 6 000 illegal jobs have been found and indicated last year. If half of us were legalized, we would have a great success, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The tenth point is the continuation of the Internationalisation and Export Plan. This “go international” is a very sustainable impulse for the export economy. Today, goods and services account for just over 50 percent of gross domestic product. The offensive is on full tour. Last year we were the European champions in export growth. We would like to hold this position and hope that the continuation of the offensive in the economic sector will achieve a sustainable level effect. We hope that next year we will break the sound wall of 100 billion in exports. The additional employment effect could be about 200 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! If one calculates this carefully, with the IHS and also inquires back on the banks' economists, we believe that in the short term 15 000 additional jobs, perhaps even 25 000 in the medium term, can be secured. Above all, the tax reduction will be added at the beginning of the year, which has brought 25 percent Köst-Satz a sustainable location impulse and, ultimately, with a billion-and-a-half-billion discharges in the broad consumer layers, also significantly stimulates consumption. In this context, it is important to me that: We will only get entrepreneurs and investors in Austria if we do not make the mistake now, for example, coinage or some others in Germany by calling entrepreneurs and investors locusts who come to eat and move a country empty. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for every farm that is located here, which is investing here, creating jobs, paying taxes and thus contributing to our red and white-red success. And this should also be said here in the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: Tax pays!]] I conclude: No one is perfect and nothing is perfect, not even the small Austrian miracle that has occurred since 1945 until now for 60 years. But it's also comforting if that's confirmed by someone from outside. In an interview in the “Standard” Austria, Professor Rürup, the head of the German economic experts, congratulated the “needing good macroeconomic performance with high economic growth and low unemployment” and added: “At the Austrian level, every German Minister of Economic Affairs would like to suffer.” I would like to thank the social partners for creating the conditions for genuinely peaceful and good cooperation here. I would like to thank the people, the workers, the entrepreneurs, all those who also help to make the Austrian Stock Exchangeplace active and attractive. We have tripled the stock market volume and are today on the way to bringing together something that no one would have thought possible, namely balanced trade balance, balanced investment balance, €50 billion outside, €50 billion from outside in Austria. We want to continue along this path. We want to make even more effort, and this ten-point programme from 1st century onwards. May, I think, is a very good base. Let us continue to work to ensure that we are able to report on this basis a joint national reform programme to Brussels in autumn and, above all, to implement it here, more importantly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12359	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The debate opens up to Mr Grillitsch. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12390	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As one who has never experienced a war thanks to God, I feel that if I compare the pictures 60 years ago with the one we are allowed to live in Austria today, in the year of thought, in the year of commemoration, I would simply be obliged to thank all those who have contributed to it over party political boundaries, in personal respect, for this foundation that they have set us where we can build today, where we can shape the future today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As one who comes from agriculture, I have to say that if one looks at the change of time, socially, away from the agricultural society to an industrial society, today at the beginning to an information and knowledge society, a huge technicalization, technology deployment, then it takes a lot of strength, innovation spirit, enterprise spirit so that the economic location of Austria could be secured in today's form. Federal Chancellor! I think it is great and thank you for allowing us to spend a few days – a few days! - after the reform dialogue on 1st January. In May, we have the opportunity to discuss this ten-point programme here. Thank you very much, because it is important – you laugh at it, it seems that you do not have the business location assurance in Austria – to pursue a consistent policy for the Austrian site and also to take appropriate measures, for example with the growth package I or with the growth package II, with the tax reform, effectively since 1.1.2005. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Cap]] [[Abg. Oils: It didn't work!]] This is consistent policy so that Austria can ultimately remain a sustainable economic location. Ladies and gentlemen, I also say quite honestly that every job seeker who does not find a job is, in fact, a jobless person too much, not a question. But we also have to look at: What is the development of the EU-wide, what are we doing here in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Of the 35 000 people a year who are putting new pressure on the labour market, 30 000 find employment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Five thousand find no work. And today we have the same unemployment figures as in 1996 and 1998. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not overlook this! That is why this programme, as I believe, is particularly important in the consistent continuation of the first three steps I have just mentioned, growth packages, tax reform and now this ten-point programme. The research project, this € 1 billion: It is very important for small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria to be able to participate, ladies and gentlemen. The broadband offensive. We do not make a policy where we do not think for 30 years how we can change structures, how social democracy has done in this country, and then simply go out without intelligence and say, now I have to close so many post offices or whatever. Ladies and gentlemen! The broadband offensive makes it possible that rural areas can continue to be a sustainable economic location in the future, because we get the world into the village and vice versa we can transfer our landscape, our ideas, our services to the world in seconds. Let me give you examples from my region, from the Murau district. With this broadband offensive and the support of this broadband offensive, there is economic settlement. KLH, a company that manufactures wooden prefabricated houses, is grateful for the fact that there is this broadband offensive because he would otherwise have thought of changing his business location, so to settle his business elsewhere. IBS, a company in Teufenbach, Murau County. By the broadband offensive world market leader! 420 employees, 120 branches. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That's what she was doing before!]] It is essential that he has this connection. That is, as I think, the consistent continuation. I would also like to thank the people in rural areas who find work there, earn money, invest and leave the value added in the region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or green electricity: extension until 2007. Not only are we talking about it, but by using new technology, through the use of domestic potentials in truth, one hit at a time. Firstly, creating jobs, creating jobs and, secondly, making a significant contribution to the environment through the reduction of CO2 emissions. Therefore, this is also an important step for pioneers and entrepreneurs to have this possibility of extension. In conclusion: It is already a good feeling if one can be responsible, can co-shape here in this house, and I am glad if there are comments from abroad in which this policy is seen positively. [[Abg. Olymps: Wrist!]] I know the prophet doesn't count so much in his own country. But I’m very happy when the “New Zurich Newspaper” writes: ‘Austria: A success model", congratulates, thank you, or is reported on the “Economic Tree in Austria” in a broadcast by the ZDF, land of the mountains, land of hope. “... the Alpine Republic, once perceived as a backward one, has become a work wonder”. The location conditions in Austria are significantly more attractive than in Germany. In addition, the Austrians amazement the Germans with effective, unbureaucratic location management. Or, Mr Matznetter, in the “Manager magazine” says “The cliché popular in Germany of the lovable, but a little backward alpine fox has nothing to do with reality. [[Abg. Oillinger: We've heard that too!]] In many ways, the Austro-Economie has overtaken the Federal Republic of Germany. Whether growth, investment, employment or state finance – Austria has the better figures.”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12498	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. 8 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12519	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Grillitsch, on 12 February. We discussed this in this House for the last time in April. That's just because you're pretending to be on the 1st. It would have happened for the first time in May. Secondly, In April 2000 we had 194,000 people without employment in our country, in April 2001 there were 191 000, in April 2002 231,000, in April 2004 240 000, and now we stand at 245,000 people without employment. If we add to the training, we are in almost 300,000 people without employment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that long, even too long, it took you to finally be ready if I follow your request to take action. Hopefully, this is not a soot flank in your eyes, but a concrete action, because laws are hardly necessary for that. We could have implemented many things immediately, what has been discussed several times in this House and what the long chain of increasing unemployment could actually have been reduced, we would have acted in good time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Bundeskanzler, since you have assembled that the mayor of Vienna at the event on 1st. May was not present: I have not seen a single head of the ÖVP and not the head of state there, but representatives, just as Sepp Rieder was present and made very specific proposals there, as it could actually go on, on the basis of the example of Vienna. What is the challenge? – The challenge is quite specific measures that lead to more employment. None of us, I say, have the wonderful means of bringing 300,000 people into employment from today to tomorrow. But what really sicks it is concrete implementation. Much too often is always announced, and far too little is actually done. For years, we have noticed that we have young people without high school. Where are the concrete programmes in rapid implementation? 13 000 young people are still without primary schooling. Where are the concrete measures? This is where they are being caught in the eye again. I believe that this could be done quickly from today to tomorrow. All of you, as Members of Parliament, are likely to be addressed by a youth in the same way as I did earlier today, and are asked: What about my practice place that I must have on the basis of my schooling? I don't get anyone. The economy makes too little available. What about jobs as a whole? Look If you look at labour market statistics, you will find that six jobseekers have come to an open job in 2000. Today – currently – we have twelve job seekers. And there, I think, it is more necessary than ever to put on concrete action. Let's think about it: Does today's education still fit in? I have said this in other places and here in the house often enough: The majority of young people push into ten teaching professions, although we have more than 300. What do we do together to form a wider base here? Or, for example, I think quite specifically of a project that we are always proud of, the Austrian tunnel construction. A great thing! But in principle, I wonder: Who makes these people up? In the previous year there was a single course of miners and tunnelers. If they do not have this training, they are again auxiliary workers at the end of their work, not professionally qualified. Who is preventing us – a demand for the economy – from acting together? There was a single course last year. Who is preventing us from actually doing something in an association of training for those people who do highly qualified work? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's also think about the purchasing power. You're always talking about this tax reform. What effect does the tax reform have? – For those who do not pay taxes, namely, the really poor in our society, none at all! The loads are very likely for these people. Why do we not increase the negative tax in this case from 110 € to 220 €? Why do we not create an additional billion of purchasing power, which does not go exclusively abroad, Mr Bundeskanzler, but becomes effective domestically? These people don't put the money on the savings book. This goes directly into domestic consumption and would promote the corresponding purchasing power there. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: For the export we have to do something!]] Let's think about the infrastructure. This isn't about both/also. If one doesn't, we're just going to do the coral tunnel and then we're going to pull money out of the West Railway. I think we must do both at the same time in order to become more active here, because it ultimately also creates employment. Broadband has been addressed: Why did broadband promotion end in 2004? – Now I only take Nagelberg as an example: Nagelberg is not yet connected, but funding is no longer available for this area today. But I believe that it would be more necessary here than ever! We do not need to reinvent the wheel, but we should just look at the report of the ARGE broadband and implement what this report says. Think about the framework conditions: Federal Chancellor! You yourself have said here in the House that there should be no more than six months on the issue of operating permits. – As you know, however, there are recently operating permits that need more than six months! [[Abg. Dr. Maier: In Vienna this is a problem!]] The vice chancellor said: There must be no more than 12 months in the procedural matters. – We know today that these procedures take longer! Why is it so long before we act on this and become active here as well? Why is it that we have the KIAB on the one hand, which is very successful, but on the other hand is still often paid out of the post office? Why don't we actually make black entrepreneurship a criminal offence? – That would help, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me also look at a detail, because this is also mentioned again and again: I hope I did not question myself, Mr Bundeskanzler, when you talk about achieving 2 to 5 percent competitiveness through flexibilization! – I wonder how to achieve this! That will be an exciting question! I hope you don't want to achieve this by reducing wages! However, I am glad that the European Parliament today amended the Working Time Directive in such a way that abuse can be prevented and that, above all, a legal regulation is not the priority, but only a measure of things must be found in connection with collective agreements. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This has to be done, Mr President.]] I am convinced that the Austrian Minister of Labour will also stick to this question. Mr Bundeskanzler, you thanked the workers. Should an image be shown However, they do not appear to be public: That this country, in which we are today, is in fact only in operation from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the afternoon. We have flexible working time regulations in every form today, otherwise the economy in our country would not exist! – Where it is necessary to make changes, we are ready to talk when it brings both benefits. On the other hand, there will not be unilateral advantages for a group with our votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12603	The next speaker is Mr Walch. – 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12624	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! High house! Mr President, I should like to make a few comments about this. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lauter!]] ==References====External links==* Official website In May, a discussion took place to which all the parties were invited to submit proposals on how we can shape the framework conditions in Austria in order to have more employment, or how we can make location security and much more. – But not much has come from the sides of the Social Democrats! [[Abg. Verbatim: Read, read, read!]] I look at your paper “Austria’s contract for work and growth”. I'll put this on and read to you once, you've been writing it all in. – You write about something, but you never agree here in the house and probably don’t read what has already been done. For example, I read that we need to modernise the infrastructure. That's right, but you voted against it! – By 2010, €30 billion will be invested for infrastructure, road and rail, which is positive for the construction industry and ensures jobs. - That's done! Furthermore, I need to inform you now that you are calling for urgent measures regarding the necessary infrastructure or business packages. - That's done! There are three economic packages! However, the SPÖ here in the house voted against! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] I also read here: Tax policy must promote employment and growth. – What happened? – There were €3 billion, half for entrepreneurs, half for employees. [[Abg. For whom?]] Special small and medium-sized earners have up to €70 per month more in the wallet, and pensioners also have up to €60 or €70 more per month. The more money one gives to people, the greater the purchasing power, the more it is invested, the better the employment is! What do we want? – We want... – Mr Vergestnitsch, listen! – We want to secure Austria’s economic location! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Of course, there is a need to make money available to the entrepreneur so that he can become the master of foreign competition and that he can secure jobs in Austria. – And we have created these conditions. – You voted against it again, you voted against the tax reform. You remember, gal? Next point: Transitional periods for the protection of workers. We have decided here a seven-year transitional period for the free movement of workers. I don't know if that would work for the Social Democrats or if they wouldn't shout so that we could shorten them a little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] I have to refer to your paper! Further point: We want to combat illegal employment and social fraud effectively. Where were you in the Anti-Fraud Act, Mr Vergestnich, when we decided here in this House higher penalties, even prison sentences for organized action or earlier notification to the County Hospital? Mr Vergestnich! The SPÖ said no! I'm asking: Don't you want to? In addition, there are the KIAB: Double occupation by executive or KIAB, so that you can control accordingly. Next: Immediate increase in labour market funding. – I am for that too! But they have to be used properly! In the current unemployment situation – you have a lot to say at the AMS anyway – you are also in the interests and are involved in the distribution of money – one would have to design the training measures in such a way that one does not manage but mediate on the labour market. In this regard, you can now take up the evidence and say: Yes, we too are doing something from the social partners! Next item – Youth employment: I would also like to stick to what I said on 1 January. May has already said that I am also looking for the social partners ÖGB and AK to support an image campaign in those professional groups where skilled workers... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Does listening hurt so much? Listen, you'll learn something! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have said that an image campaign should be carried out, in the case of those professional groups where there is a shortage of skilled workers, and that the Trade Union Confederation and the Chamber of Labour would also be obliged to say: It must not be a shame if a mason becomes, it must not be a shame if one learns the profession of the installer or electrician. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do not forget to breathe!]] The topic of education campaign: I did one with us in Upper Austria. I went into a polytechnic course and spoke there in classes about the construction industry and stressed the advantages of someone who learns the mason's profession. I did this there, and I'll have her sniff me again today, and that's right. – In this respect, one should help out beyond the party boundaries and say: The opposition must also be worth something for young people. With this in mind, I would also like to ask the allegedly extra-party ÖGB not only to make socialist party politics, but also to treat the young people, no matter what, equally! I can only say to you: This government creates the framework conditions or tries to constantly improve them. Of course, there are too many unemployed people, but we are not in the final place at international level. We all have to make every effort to ensure employment and to create more jobs. In this sense, this programme, in which there is more investment in the construction industry, has created appropriate conditions. The construction is the engine of the economy, and this has consequences: Then everyone has a job. There must be an investment: In road, rail, infrastructure and in favour – I emphasize: advanced! – construction orders such as power plant buildings and much more. Mr Cap, the largest tax reform of the Second Republic has clearly not caused Mr Cap to get more. I am also because you have a corresponding income! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do not forget to breathe! Thanks to the pump!]] But I say: As a result, the tax reform has helped small and medium-sized earners, it has helped pensioners accordingly, it has helped the economy, and it does not look as bad as the opposition here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12752	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12773	Ladies and gentlemen! It may already be that it is also in between an urgent need of the government parties to thank themselves and to rejoice. But I really ask you, Mr Molterer: If you want to do this so intensively with a urgent, at least use the time! It's almost embarrassing that you're not even at a jubilant moment – and so far I haven't heard anything else! – Take enough time to rejoice! Rather, the first founder, Mr Neugebauer, left the speaker's desk and took his seat after eight minutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] The head of government, who otherwise needs 30 minutes to answer, was finished this time after 15 minutes. – What's going on? [[Abg. May. Molterer: We say something failed in half the time!]] Has Obviously you are so little to rejoice, Mr Molterer? I now come to your proposal for a urgent request on employment. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Excuse me, Mr Molterer: What do you think of Parliament? As a urgent request, you bring something which you have literally taken out and written off a Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He's written off again!]] The ten points are from the Council of Ministers' presentation and have been decided in the Council of Ministers. Then go to Parliament and say: Now we are doing a fair celebration, and we are also very much informing Parliament of these ten points in the part of the motion for a resolution, and then again in the explanatory statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] If you really don't think anything else, then that's little! Now I come to the points. Mr Walch has criticized here on the paper of the SPÖ and on the paper of the ÖGB, which he does not like. He says that was too little. Mr Walch, what did the government parties present at the summit? There was a page of paper, a Kasblattl from the Ministry of Infrastructure! [[Abg. Fauland: That's more than you can show!]] Now I'm telling you what happened on this box of the Ministry of Infrastructure: It was listed a number of construction projects in the area of rail and road. As serious as it is, however, can be described as such a register of the Ministry of Infrastructure when a north-west motorway is proposed on this Kasblattl, which is not even available! There's no north-west car, except you've invented one now! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] The fact is, a Northeast motorway was meant. It is actually a tragedy that you trust, with such documents and some of the speakers you have held and whose role it was obvious that Austria's employment policy now had a positive witness in international comparison, to hold such a summit! The result – I say it quite honestly – was embarrassingly poor! I do not want to argue now that among the ten points is one idea or another – for example, the ideas of Mr Blum – superior or discussion. But that's what it was! We have, of course, come to this summit to expect that the issue of unemployment and employment will not only be discussed, but also that appropriate measures will be taken. Now I come to the conclusion, Mr Walch: I have, of course, listened carefully to what representatives of the government parties have said. And it starts – I have to say it, Mr Walch, I have nothing else left! – so that already the findings are completely wrong. Unfortunately, we do not have an increase in employment! The urgent request states that we have 3 200 000 employees. That's wrong! The right thing is: We had 3 067 000 employees in April of this year, which is about 130 000 less, and that is exactly the number of children's benefits. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's unscrupulous!]] Do you know how many it was in April 2000? – There were 3,040,000! That's about 27,000 more. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because there was no child money there!]] Mr Molterer! [[Abg. May. Molterer: You can't compare apples to pears!]] You know that! [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's wrong!]] No, that's not wrong, Mr Molterer, that's realistic! I call you real numbers! And You also know that all economists do not expect these figures, with these 3.2 million! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You don't even believe that! They've been talking for almost 10 minutes, and no one's chatting!]] The socio-scientific institutes Wifo and IHS do not count on this, but they use the honest figures! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Don't worry about it! – Back to the summit or to what you did not say. – Yes, it is true: In international comparison, Austria still has relatively low unemployment. The problem is: As one of the few countries, we have increased unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Mr Scheuch! Watch out! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I'll be careful!]] The most serious problem is: We have a massive increase in the unemployment of younger people, and I really think it is fatal that you don't want to offer these younger people any perspective at all! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is no way – and you could have heard that at this summit! – because they are offered an additional training. That too should be, and it may also be useful. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: How many people do you do work?]] Mr Scheuch, listen! At the same time, however, it was found that the people are unemployed after the end of the education and we have an increasing unemployment of trained people aged 20 to 24 years. There, the growth in unemployment is most serious at present! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: How many people do you do work?]] What do you say? – Nothing you say, because you don’t think anything or – what would be worse and what I don’t want to accept! – because it's your sausage! But if you don't say anything about it, you obviously don't even have the approach of an idea or a problem-consciousness! And that can't be it! We shouldn't afford to just celebrate around and say: Internationally, we are still doing quite well anyway!, but we overlook the serious problems that actually exist. Indeed, there are serious problems when young people aged 20 years after a teaching, after which Matura or a study do not have a job and are not just a year, but two or three years without a job. You all know that! And in this regard, we should be honest enough: These people do not even find themselves in the statistics, because of course they are not registered unemployed! That's how it looks in reality! Therefore, we should not celebrate and cheer around and thank the post-war generation or – even further back – the war generation, but we should take these findings seriously, and take seriously also means trying to give appropriate answers! It is difficult enough to find in this context only the approach of an answer. I admit that to everyone. But I'm asking: Where are the economic policy measures? Where are the measures in relation to another tax policy, which, for example, acknowledges the need for people with very low unemployment benefit in Austria? In the European comparison, we are not at the forefront, but there is Austria down below, we have the lowest unemployment benefit: Women get 400 € unemployment benefit or emergency aid! Can she live on it? - No, they can't! But you obviously don't care, and that can't be it! We need a package of measures for young people. Ten thousand young people should receive a decent job, at least for a year. This is a key element in an active labour market policy that deserves this name. You should not put 63-year-old people in job coachings, where they are then 63-year-old – that is pure cynicism! – learn how to apply! This is cynicism that you pursue in real labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Obviously, you have no real reference to these problems, which all of Austria is talking about, and this is the real problem: That's no reason to celebrate!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13008	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. Voluntary time limit: 7 minutes; the legal person would be 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13030	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Although some of my previous speakers do not see it like this: Austria is a success model! The international press also repeatedly writes about Austrian economic policy under Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Austria already, but not this government! That's the problem!]] Even if you don't want to hear from the SPÖ and the Greens: Our neighbours from red and green Germany look jealously at Austria and what we can do here. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Perhaps it would be better for the future to see Austria not always ill and bad, but to see the situation positively. [[Abg. Oils: Take seriously!]] This country Austria and especially these people in Austria did not deserve this. The forecast growth in Austria is 2.2 percent higher than the EU average. The red-green Germany holds the red lantern in hand with 0.8 percent. Not that you think that would be a pleasure to me as an entrepreneur or an entrepreneurship representative. On the contrary: I would be very happy if the development in Germany looked different. Austria has the third lowest unemployment rate in all 25 EU countries, and for the first time for several years we have succeeded in halting the decline in apprentices: In 2004, the number of apprentices increased by 1.4 percent to around 36 000 in the first year of education. The newly created apprenticeship acquirers fully support this. 14 acquirers create around 1,600 new apprenticeships in this year. The Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities will also give 1 800 young people another chance. – Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Another apprenticeship offensive is intended to provide additional incentives for youth training: With the “Blum-Bonus” of 400 € per month in the first and 200 € respectively 100 € in the second and third years of the course, the companies that train additional apprentices are supported. In Niederösterreich, the free apprentice learning aid was first created, with 100 young people already participating. The first have already carried out an examination in vocational schools through this educational assistance. I think that many other individual examples, as some of them have mentioned, show what is already being done by the Chamber of Commerce. Especially when the ten teaching professions are addressed, it must be mentioned that there is a great home page of the Chamber of Commerce – www.fragjimmy.at – where there is a lot of additional teaching places to be found – and not only on apprenticeships, but also on vocational education and training routes. – This is very important, I think. A “Girls’ Day” is offered, which simply addresses women and girls to enter technical professions. In addition, information stands are organized in some districts during parent speaking days, just to expand this picture. I think it will be a lot possible, and we will continue to work on it in the future, especially within the framework of the social partnership. We thus give young people real prospects. “Job concrete” is also a very promising project, which is implemented very successfully in Lower Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So far, about 1,000 people have been given a new chance. 91 percent of these supported and thus higher qualified persons are actually taken over by the companies, and this in turn benefits small businesses, because 50 percent of these companies have less than 10 employees. According to Wifo in Austria, the Lisbon target in the employment rate by 2010 is now as good as achieved. Ladies and gentlemen! But we have also done a great deal for this! Since 2000, when Wolfgang Schüssel took up his office as Federal Chancellor, there have been two economic recovery packages, a growth package and finally the biggest tax reform in history. It alone brings a discharge of over €3.5 billion for the people and for our businesses. – This is offensive economic and thus labour market policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Not for nothing is Austria's economic location more and more in demand abroad. Currently 393 foreign companies are intensively advised about a settlement in Austria. A year ago, on the other hand, it was only 294. So you can see: Our policy works! I would like to stress once again today: Only a healthy economy can create jobs. Not noise and bad luck, but a positive climate creates the basis for consumption and growth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If the economy is going well, we're all fine. We want to get better! ==References====External links== The growth and employment summit will be held in May and many other measures will be taken. In the field of trade regulations, for example, the simplified approval procedure should be extended from 300 m2 to 800 m2 of operating space. – Businesses that can start up their work faster create new jobs. The flexibility of working time is something that will certainly help safeguard the location, and not all social democrats are against it. – I quote from a “profile” interview with Hannes Androsch of 7. ‘Profile: Do you have working time models in your company that go beyond the applicable legal situation? Androsch: Opposite question: What's left? I don't have any of it if we don't have orders. And if we have any, this cannot be associated with additional costs if we have to swallow underemployment costs in the event of a weaker order situation." I assure you: Our employees have long been willing to go this way of flexibility together with us and thus adapt to the changed market situation with the economy. They have this courage for creativity and new ways. Trust the people, the Austrian economy and this federal government, because where others are not even ready to start, we have long been on the right path!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13174	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. She wishes a speech time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13195	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In one point, my predecessor was right: She said Austria didn't deserve this, and in fact: Austria has really not deserved such a policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent request already says everything: It states that the following measures have been ‘considered’ in this reform dialogue. - Nothing specific! The application is full of "soll" and "plan" and "soll" and again "soll", and so it goes. There are no concrete points, but everything is “soul” and is“ planned. ” In Austria, there are 300,000 unemployed people waiting for immediate action! They do not wait for what measures they might take sometime in 2010, but they now need to take action against the situation in which they are personally. They always handle so great with the number of employees. In part, Mr Oellinger has already shown why you have, so to speak, higher numbers of employees. In addition, however, we have lost 30 000 full-time jobs in four years when we converted to full-time jobs, ladies and gentlemen! The educational gap is getting bigger and bigger. Some 16,000 young people are looking for a teaching centre, and some 11,000 job seekers are in transitional solutions. 40 000 young people aged 15 to 24 are looking for jobs. These are people whose profession started already with an exit. I think that a rich country like Austria is not likely to deny this opportunity to young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance is no longer here. [[Call the SPÖ:To Capri!]] However, I would like to remind you that it is really a kind of cynicism that seeks to do the same when Mr Grasser says in the budget speech that, as a measure for older workers, the retirement age has been raised and, at the same time, when he notes the effect of the apprenticeship premium, the companies have been relieved. That's what it's like: The apprenticeship premium has had no effect and no effect, but you have once again given money to the economy so that the economy may be better; but also there, Mrs Colleague:... – Yes, exactly, and you set the wrong priority: [[Abg. May. Controller: Then we're all fine!]] If we're all good, the economy is fine, because cars don't buy cars. – Henry Ford has already recognized that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Austrians may feel a little embarrassed if you, Mr. Bundeskanzler, understand the Eurofighters by means of an "intelligent" solution. – You know how the population stands for this purchase. Federal Chancellor! I can also tell you: They have criticized the absence of Mr. Mayor and Chief of State. [[Abg. Amon: Right!]] Mr Rieder has shown you measures which the city of Vienna has long set out to combat unemployment and has shown: Vienna has acted. Vienna has acted – in contrast to this federal government, which is watching rising unemployment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: You don't believe that!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Fasching is over!]] With this active self-introduction of the city of Vienna, Vienna has certainly proved better than the Styria, whose wife head of state Klasnic was not present, that it is at least devoted to this topic and that it actively does something against unemployment. – That would be desirable in other federal states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You can say that loud!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Tosser” applause!]] Mr Molterer, it is sad that you have no other comments on this subject. I think unemployment and the concern of unemployed people should also concern you, and you should not make cynical remarks that do not really testify to the quality of a parliamentarian. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A lot!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Cynic!]] In any case, they obviously run a flawed economy when you deliberately take on rising unemployment. Federal Chancellor! According to Mr Bartenstein, the soles of the valley, which we have claimed to have already gone through in unemployment, are much deeper than your flat summits, which keep you there permanently. - I'll tell you that too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The reduction of the social state you operate is also something that is anti-growth. Look They are looking at states such as the Scandinavian countries or England, which invest in the social state and are thus significantly higher in growth rates than Austria. A social state is also encouraging growth. However, they inhibit this very promotion of growth by permanently reducing the social state. They say people need income so they can buy something. - That's quite clear. In this context, I would remind you that under your government, unemployment benefit and emergency aid workers have already been reduced by 3.6%. But I would also like to remind you of the following: You will decide on this service check tomorrow, where it is again about stamping people through mini-jobs and through “McJobs” to the “working part”. That's the policy you're making, and that's a policy that obviously can't go well, but has to go wrong. Therefore, you would be well advised to reconsider these measures. I would like to add one word to the Services Directive: There, too, your attitude was very strange. The Federal Minister spoke quite differently in the Committee on Budgets than after the EU had taken a different course and he tried to scratch the curve. I would like to draw your attention to this in the interests of the employees in Austria – at the end of the day you are the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, at least at the moment –: Think of the effects these provisions have on people and jobs, employment and growth in Austria! You have all calculations on the table, and you know exactly what negative effects the implementation of the previous proposal for Austria and for the people in our country would have.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13396	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13418	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it would offer to replicate on it. It is obvious that the current hour has gone by to Mrs Silhavy today, who for the time being is talking about social reduction, which is absolutely unacceptable. [[Abg. Silhavy:... read the Social Report for yourself! This is an official document from the Federal Government!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ: Which planets do you live on?]] The social network in Austria under this Federal Government is constantly being expanded and made more efficient. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government has done a lot for growth and employment over the past five and a half years, as I believe, and it is perfectly clear that full employment remains the goal. If you make international comparisons, there is a reason for this excellent positioning that our country takes: because a lot has just been done! Nevertheless, there is a high number of unemployed people, and it would be cynicism to simply accept it and say simply to say that we are well in the international comparison. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Every single unemployed person is certainly one too much, and it is all to be done to reduce this number. In addition, Mr President, it is not a mistake that Rürup is full of praise or that, I assume, the concerns you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have in connection with unemployment in Austria, the German Chancellor would certainly wish. Nevertheless, it remains a central challenge to provide jobs and a framework for creating new jobs. Mr Oellinger! In your opinion, you have corrected or adjusted the number of employees who receive child benefits. Nevertheless – and you have said that yourself – the result is an increase in employment. [[Abg. Oillings:... 20,000 in five years!]] According to EUROSTAT, employment growth is about 1 percent. The EU average is 0.6 percent. That is to say, there are more employees or as many as never before in this country. Nevertheless, there are around 35 000 people a year who want and push on the labour market. I also allow myself to address a problem area for which, as I believe, a solution must also be found. In many publications, statements and investigations – also by economic research institutes and by policy – it is generally regarded as the value from which not only jobs can be created, but unemployment can be reduced in a number of publications, statements and investigations. There is a publication of Leo F. Aichhorn. In this study, Dr. Aichhorn notes that this threshold for Austria is 4 percent. It also compares this with the Federal Republic of Germany, where this threshold is 3.5 percent. I think that it would be essential and important, in any case, to cover the mechanisms for increasing this threshold in order to counter that threshold – based on the fact that economic growth cannot last over a long period of time in this order. Aichhorn mentions in particular the increase in labour productivity as a reason for the increase in this threshold. The reform dialogue on growth and employment is still under way. The impact of the measures mentioned is certainly to be welcomed: the expansion of the infrastructure or in the field of research and development, the contract research, which is now to be taxed. I have one specific point to address, namely the broadband offensive. There is €10 million more for Hiefor. I should also like to say that the tax advantage for broadband connections in the rural area – for private connections – is “appropriate” until the 1st century. January 2005 was limited, a continuation should be found, because, for example, in Upper Austria only now, there is the possibility of a broadband connection, but this tax advantage is no longer given. I therefore plead for an extension and will discuss the club in-house and subsequently also with the coalition partner. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Unfortunately, only the rich favor! Only the rich can put off tax!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government accepts the current challenge. The aim is and remains full employment, and everything is done to achieve this goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13505	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13560	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! May 2005 is the month where we can say: For a year there has been a new trend in the Austrian labour market: For a year, on average, unemployment in women has increased and in the meantime unemployment in men has fallen again. At the 1st May work summit, did the women happen? – You can only quote, Mr. Federal Chancellor – you apologise for you, but that is in the lyrics of the song –: Tell me where the women are, where did they stay? In your contributions they were nowhere to be found! Mr Bundeskanzler, in your speech on this summit, you have almost claimed with nonchalance that you would seek new answers instead of old solutions, but then, just as at the summit itself, have served us the oldest of all answers to the topic, namely growth, growth, growth. This would automatically generate employment, namely growth over construction. This reminds me of the States in the 1930s, but that is not a new answer to new challenges. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another comment on reading, if you once have time in between, if you do not make a summit: There are now quite a lot of basic works about “Jobless Growth”, about precisely those economic growth processes that do not create jobs. This should have been talking to the Chancellor's Office, and maybe you'll look at it. In the meantime, I also do not know how many studies will prove to you that, especially in infrastructure projects, such as in the high-level road network, employment effects are much lower than in other construction industries. Perhaps you should look at your supposedly new solutions again, because they look quite ancient. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel:... 3 billion for research...!]] There's murmuring from behind. At least I notice that it's being heard, that's a change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I thank you for the interest and use it to give you a few elements that have not yet been found. We are talking about unemployment figures and we know which groups of people do not appear at all, namely all the pensioners, the pensioners of transitional funds, the people involved in training, the job seekers, school graduates and so on. That is, in reality, we have a problem in Austria, which is even greater than the official statistics. Unlike my previous speaker, I don't think that a problem is solved if the statistics look a little bit more pretty than you had before. What we also know is that there is now a growing group of people who are so discouraged that they are no longer registered with the labour market service. This means that they no longer appear in the statistics. These people say: It's chanceless, I'm not willing to let myself go for the seventeenth time, how I apply properly! It is clear from figures that those women who are currently neither employed nor seeking employment, who are not registered anywhere, that is, housewives in classical understanding, would like to be 72,000 employed. If I calculate all of this roughly, all those who would actually have to be counted as hidden unemployed, and the 72 000 who would like to work, then I come alone to a job-seeking rate of 12.5 percent for women. This is a considerable size, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – a size which cannot be so salopp as to and should be offered, but for which serious measures must be offered, especially if one also knows that for three quarters of the unemployed women reported, i.e. 75 percent, they are clearly below the compensation rate with their income, that on average they have a monthly income of about €400. You can't live with that at the best of will. And the trend is falling. As you can see a clear trend in your regentship, you must almost call it, Mr. Bundeskanzler: Since your government is at work, 91 504 women are more unemployed and around 26 000 and a few men are less unemployed. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We have more employment!]] It's probably not a coincidence like your answers are missing. ==References====External links== May you didn't have a syllable for women. For you, the women only come on 8 May. May on the Mother's Day. But this is not the picture of women in Austrian society! That is why you are finally doing something for a better employment policy – especially for women!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13628	The next speaker is Mr Amon. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13651	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mag. Weinzinger, I have Their statements on "Jobless Growth" were not understood to be precisely because we do not want to invest growth without employment, in infrastructure, in the construction industry and in research, because we want to create employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Colleagues, it does not help you to read these books if you draw the wrong conclusions from them in economic policy! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] By the way, I am a little disappointed at all about this debate, in particular about the speeches by the Social Democratic Party. I understand that you want to operate propaganda here, just: It will always be dangerous when you start to believe your own propaganda. It is so flattly argued when you say that what the Michael Häupl does in Vienna would be so successful and that the Federal Government deliberately takes high unemployment rates into account. You don't believe that! I could make it very easy to do so, because at the top of the low unemployment countries there are Austrian-led federal states, but at the end of this table lies the Burgenland and the Federal Capital of Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's how it looks!]] I am actually very glad that it is the Federal Government that sees the work for man as part of the meaningful fulfillment of his life, which puts the work at the centre of his life. And if you look at the economic data, ladies and gentlemen, we really have every reason to be proud of the development in this area. They are always talking about the fact that we have very high unemployment in Austria. This is relatively correct, and that is why the Federal Government, not only now, has dealt very intensively with this problem all the time, when we found ourselves in an internationally difficult situation, and it has also borne fruit. Otherwise, we would not have in international comparison the successful employment data we can refer to, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to repeat the measures taken by the Federal Government once again. I would like to put forward the support measures for youth employment and the guarantee given, Mr President Verzellnich, if I understood correctly, together with the social partners with whom we guarantee every young person either a training place or an apprenticeship. [[Abg. Conspicuously camouflage]] This is an important guarantee, because it is the end of the day that a young person who is facing the situation of not being taken on the labour market receives something like a certificate from society: We don't need you, and with that, we're asking this young person a very quick question of meaning. I am therefore glad that the Federal Government, together with the social partners, has come to this guarantee. I believe that the measures against social and economic fraud find a broad consensus in this House that it is right to provide for an acceleration in operating permits, that it is important – and that, Mr President Vergestnich, you have also mentioned – to offer young people an additional offer to complete compulsory schooling. This is an important measure. Do not act as if nothing had happened on this point so far! We are at the top of the European level with regard to compulsory schooling. Thank God we have been very successful, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is right to invest in research, and it is also important, as I have mentioned, to add another €300 million infrastructure offensive. It is important to ensure broadband promotion and to further advance export, especially since ultimately one is probably clear – and everyone may know – that every second job in Austria is now directly or indirectly dependent on export, and therefore it is an absolutely right measure to invest. So I think we have a wealth of data that gives us cause for joy, and that we should not be here in a rhetorical pitfall. I don't think that's what I'm doing, but we should go ahead with the positive things, just like it's being done internationally. I would like to conclude by quoting an article from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” of 17. April of this year, in which it literally reads: 'Miss such high unemployment. Half that high deficit. Much higher growth. Austria is tumbling up and attracting German entrepreneurs.” And on top of that: “ Whether labour market, economic growth, tax law or state finance – the small neighbor is ahead. By the times of inferiority to the Germans. Their economic strength brings new self-confidence to the Austrians.” I quote: And Edmund Stoiber notes soberly: “We must be told by Austria that they are better than Germany. Unfortunately, our friends in Vienna are right.” That is why you stop, ladies and gentlemen, from social democracy, with this inferiority complex! Be proud of what we have achieved together!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13729	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. 6 minutes' welcome time, 12 minutes remaining speaking time of the political group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13751	Mr President. A Federal Government shrinking on the government bank to the Secretary of State Morak! So important is the issue of unemployment for this Federal Government! Let's get to the point. – Mr Oellinger has rightly pointed out how little is important to you even in case of your own urgent request. You prove it – from word to word! How is the objective stock? – They praise how great it is that Austria has only 10.1 percent of youth unemployment rate. Mr Amon, you are right to say that we must be proud of our country – but proud of the heritage you have taken over! We had no youth unemployment at all at our time of government – before you came to the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I will stay on this subject, Mr Amon. Do you want to know how unemployment has developed? Look Arrive in Eurostat statistics and do not quote from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, but look at the data in all 15 Western European countries! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Mr Amon, five countries have less unemployment than in 2000. But Austria has an increase of 0.8 percent. We had an unemployment rate of 3.7 percent. In contrast to what Mr Grasser has taken over from his predecessor, this is an increase in unemployment rates by 22 percent, between 2000 and 2004. [[Abg. Amon: Employment has increased!]] Do you know how much unemployment has increased on average in the EU-15? By 5 percent. We have a four-fold increase. That's the result of the government bowl and grass! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But perhaps the beautiful spring sun on the islands also helps our Mr. Finanzminister – he is interested in the topic “very much”, after all, he decided very soon here. We don't know if he has an urgent flight. But he has still launched an APA issue at 15.08 a.m. and he praises that the measures of the employment summit will increase gross domestic product by 0.3 percentage points. In itself, a nice realization! That is, by extending infrastructure investment plus borrowing of funds for research and development, the Minister of Finance notes, growth of 0.3 percent. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Why could we not have done this last year, last year and the years before? In the meantime, GDP would have increased by two percent, the deficit by one percent, and the employment rate would have halved, as in Great Britain, instead of growing by a quarter. That would be a failed economic policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because we are already in our “net” absent finance ministers, who are always “crystalline” to the promising expert opinions of foreign countries: ==References== On 1 August 2003, the SPÖ requested a special meeting because the economic situation did not look rosy. Unfortunately, you haven't done anything in the two years since. At that time, in 2003, the Minister of Finance decided that Austria's location was making special progress, because according to the World Competitiveness Report 2003 Austria had moved from place 18 to place 13 in 2000. Now it is good that you have made this urgent request today, because justament today exists from the same institute in Lausanne, with today's APA notification from 13.03 a.m., the current World Competitiveness Report 2005. And what do we read there, Mr Amon? - You know. Then we can say it right away: ==References====External links== ==References== Space slipped back. Why? – Because, despite the supposedly great tax reform, there is the highest tax burden and also high social security contributions – and now it comes! – inflation has downturned negatively. We consider the state of public finances to be ‘moderate’ and Mr Grasser’s fiscal policy to be ‘inadequacy’. That's why there's this reclassification. But even more interesting is the following: Do you know why Austria was even moved around the three places in 2000? – Because of a statistical change. The place 13 was in the year 2000 the place 15. That is, in reality, we have worsened from place 15 to place 17. This is the result of your policy! That's what the institutes you yourself quoted say. They have reduced the competitiveness of Austria. They have done nothing against unemployment. They have reduced public investment to a historical low. Austria has the last place in the European Union in public investment. And you are trying – and this is especially objectionable – to adorn yourself now with the employment summit outcome, where you have taken over years too late and insufficient measures. Instead, implement the ten points of the SPÖ Employment Pact, and you will see that the economy will flourish – as in the UK – and we will have fewer unemployed, more economic growth and more secure state finances due to higher revenue! That would be a chance for our country. This government is no longer taking hold of it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13832	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13854	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Matznetter, it seems that you have memory gaps. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He has no memory at all! That's a big gap!]] You seem to have memory gaps and have forgotten or you do not want to have it true that – and now I will remind you – very likely under a German Chancellor Vrannitzky and under a German Chancellor climate in the years 1995 to 1998, that is, in just three years, unemployment has risen by 22,000 people in Austria. In just three years – with GDP growth of more than 8 percent, of almost 9 percent, of 8.8 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But much less than...!]] How can You're gonna get out of here and say, That is the highest unemployment! We have a high level of unemployment, but we also have the highest employment of all time – and that in the case of low economic growth! You know that very well. If you put this into relation to the data that was available under a SPÖ Federal Chancellor and under a SPÖ Finance Minister and under a Social Democratic Social Minister, I have to say: We're still there! We are also well placed in the European comparison. In fact, with our unemployment rate, we are fourth in the EU-25. Take note of this! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Has unemployment risen or fallen?]] It's tragic enough, but we take it seriously – in contrast to you! Then: Our ranks are filled, but the social democracy ranks are more than half empty. There are more with us than with you, we can hold on to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I should now like to ask you a question, Mr Vergestnitsch. You have referred to a number of measures today, and I am sure you will lose the concern and seriousness you have shown here. But with this seriousness you have also addressed the question of why you have worked in your ÖGB home on the Ossia lake cheap workers from Hungary, under the pretext of a shale resistance? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ah that!]] [[Abg. You're wrong!]] They were reported as independent and were working for low-cost wages in your ÖGB home. [[Abg. You're wrong!]] I would ask you to examine this with the same seriousness and to take action against this dissidentness. Then I believe you have your seriousness and concern that you have shown here today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But to return to the urgency of this request: We are pleased that this proposal, which calls on the Federal Government to implement as quickly as possible the measures taken in the reform dialogue. This is considered very, very urgent. There we are again in a different situation than in Germany. How is debated in Germany? – The Federal Chancellor has already referred to it: Entrepreneurs are insulted, athletes are insulted when they have their headquarters abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Do you want to promote tax evasion?]] But many entrepreneurs are also insulted. Let's just think about Müller milk. This company has emigrated to Switzerland and had to take the blasphemy by German Chancellor Schröder, and many more. In the meantime, however, Germany is envying us. They can follow all debates on television, all economic and social debates: Again and again, Austria is being put as a model country! It is referred to as an example of how Austria is dealing with unemployment, how Austria has dealt with the new tax justice. And you have to note that our Köst tax rate is very much 85 percent of the small businesses in Austria, small businesses that do not even employ 20 employees. This is a fact, and you have to take note of that. We're going another way in Austria. We do not go the way of social reduction, such as the red-green government in Germany, which firmly defends coinage and, of course, also defends the Green Group. We take unemployment very, very seriously. It is too much for us every unemployed person, but we have clear proposals on the table. I'm just addressing one measure. Mr Oellinger made fun of Mr Vice-Chancellor's paper. Whether it's north-west or rail, that's uninteresting. The fact is that investment is being made. [[Abg. Olympian: Is already sausage! It's Wurst to you!]] You can't wipe out the fact that from 2000 to 2014, in 14 years, infrastructure investments will be increased by more than 20 billion and thus more than doubled. [[Abg. Oillinger: The BZÖ is only more in the circle!]] If you know that a billion investment in infrastructure brings 15 000 jobs, and if you calculate it at 40 billion, you say and write 600,000 jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Read the Commission report! We have the least investment!]] When have you ever made such investments? Under your government, we had savings packages – I just remember the big savings package in 1997 – and we have a savings car that A 2, on which there have been many, many tragic accidents and many deaths that are finally under attack, where day and night work is being done. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But the lowest investment rate!]] Each Austrian feels that Austria is investing in rail, rail and road. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We are final light!]] Apparently you're sitting too much in the office and are too little on the go, and that's all going by you. Take note of this! But I also say quite conciliatoryly: The fight against unemployment must concern all of us. It is a task of the federal government, each one of us here, it is the task of the social partners, the task of the countries, each federal state and the task of education policy, that we prepare our young people for their working life so that they are not unemployed in the future and the entrepreneurs have the appropriate professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14070	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 5 minutes welcome. The Group's remaining speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14091	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we were once again a witness of a truly “shining” example, Mrs. Rossmann! It is true that by 2020 your vice chancellor will propose an investment package of 40 billion. It is not true that this ensures 600 000 jobs. Your invoice can't vote. If you assume – and I doubt it – that 1 billion € for investment means 6 000 jobs, then you can't count that up to 20 years and then come to 600 000. You've done a completely wrong bill! If it's all right – if it's all right! – are it, roughly calculated per year according to my bill 4,000, and if you calculate that then 20 you come to 4,000 per year. But please, people need a job every year and not someone new every year. That was your completely wrong account. - Good. But let's get to the bottom of the infrastructure chapter. Mrs Colleague, please read the study of the Wifo commissioned by the Federal Government! It will really fall out of your eyes like sheds, because there is very clearly to read that overall investment in road constructions, in transport infrastructure, is less and less labor-intensive. This is clear because there are the machines, because there the tunnels are used primarily. Take a look at a motorway construction site! As you will rarely find people, there are mainly machines working. And there, please, go your main investment boost when you invest in infrastructure! We want another investment policy. We also want to build – the colleague Walch is not here right now – yes, but we want to build where it really makes sense and where it really creates employment. Just think about the residential renovation! Read the paper, then you will see, we have increased a housing problem, we have a huge rental cost increase by 3, 4, 5 percent, partly even by 8 percent. [[Abg. Neudeck: But these are the operating costs!]] We have bottlenecks due to the use of housing funds for other budgetary purposes of the state government. And we have an intensive volume of employment there. I can also quote it to you, directly from business circles: 1 million used in residential renovation has an investment effect of 2.5; the factor is 2.5. And then, please, the employment there is much more intense: 1 million means about 2 500 employees, because there are small and medium-sized enterprises at work, because in the case of renovations, mainly craftsmanship is needed, because there is no greater possibility of using machines that are used in tunnel construction, in road construction. Our employment investment would have to take a foothold in this climate change area. We would then have a triple effect: We would have more employment, we would have climate protection measures, Co2 savings, and we would have, above all, cheaper housing costs, cheaper operating costs, a saving of heating costs. For this to happen, people need to get deeper into the wallets: for higher heating costs. And our investments would go in this direction. Or look at another area! Mr Gorbach stressed that he wanted to employ small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of infrastructure measures. But what happens on the other side? On the other hand, the ring around Vienna is being forced as a PPP project and the largest construction of all time, over 50 kilometers, with over €720 million; that's about 10 billion schilling! And what do you think if this is written out across Europe, how many Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises will be offering? This is your employment policy: Employment policy for construction machinery and employment policy for large companies – and not for people, women, young people and small and medium-sized enterprises here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Grillitsch, an example for you: Let's go to biomass! There, up to 40 000 jobs would be possible, according to the Schneider-Karrer study, but please do not invest the billions in road construction projects or rail construction projects that are not necessary as a matter of priority. If we go to biomass, we also go to broadband! Only: Its broadband initiative is primarily a broadband initiative for service providers. Their tax-deposit model makes it easier for the good-earner and makes broadband connections more difficult for small and medium-sized earners. Our request on broadband measures, Master Plan, et cetera, coordination body at the Federal Government, is the only broadband application here in this House, and it is the only immediate request for this important technology that we need. I hope that this proposal will be addressed once in the Committee on Industry. This is a concrete measure of the green side, and we need it rather than your large investment projects, which ultimately are not in employment. Finally, let me mention briefly that we are primarily concerned with actually reducing the additional wage costs by means of the eco-tax concept. The Federal Chancellor said that he did something – I could not see a reduction in additional labour costs in any tax reform – and said that the eco-tax concept would be non-compulsory, that additional labour costs would actually be reduced, and that would also be an employment initiative. There has even been the agreement of Mr Tancsits. We had a discussion – Mr Hofmann, Mr Matznetter, I was also involved, as was Professor Schneider, and we all agreed: It is important to reduce additional wage costs! – Thank you, that was the main message for me!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14147	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Requested time: 6 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14168	Mr President. Mr Alse State Secretary Morak! In the meantime, the Federal Chancellor has returned to us. I've read your urgent request very carefully. You can actually get it to the point by finding out: Your request looks exactly like your women's policy. In your application, the word “woman” occurs only once, and this is put in brackets. This expresses a great deal, and if I look at the President of the Federal Chancellor's speech, I have to say: He has also not made much of demands and positions in connection with active women's employment. And the responsible woman minister also left the meeting room after a short shake-hand round. This shows very clearly the importance of women's employment in this Federal Government, namely none at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Don't tell me that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter with you, because that's totally wrong! I would like to present this on the basis of a few examples. Since you've been in government, women have become more and more difficult to get a full-time job in this country. If they have left due to a baby break, they have no or only very little possibilities for re-entry at all. Here are some figures that might explain this to you: Three out of four women try to get back in after the karenz, but only every second woman manages to get an insurance job. What happens to the other women? Each third woman takes on minor employment, and 18 percent of women are considered unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Our fears regarding child care have been fully confirmed by a Wifo study. The longer the child allowance takes, the more difficult it is for women to work in the process of work, and the more difficult it is to practice a job. [[Abg. Steibl: And you want to extend the notice protection to 30 months! That's not understandable!]] Mrs Colleague, you know this study too, and even if you are still talking so much about it, the result of the study will not be different. The consequence is that, in particular, re-privileged women are particularly affected by unemployment, or they have to use an atypical job in order to return to the work process at all. The unemployment rate has already been very clearly shown. I therefore confine myself, in my remarks, to the situation of the unemployed women. At the end of April 2005, only unemployed were reported and not in any form of education and training measure 112 721 women. Compared to the previous year, April 2004, this means an increase in female unemployment by 3.7 percent. This is really an alarming number that apparently does not arouse your interest, but the women outside will certainly remember that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A very difficult situation is the fact that there is an increasing increase in small employees. In 1998 around 119 000 women were in minor employment, in January 2005 it was already 159 000, and in March it was already 160 000 – rising. In part-time employment: They always point to how great Austria is compared to the European Union as a whole. I can tell you: In Austria, we have a higher part-time rate for women than in the European Union. This means that women are very much involved in part-time employment. And after we believe that an active labour market policy needs to be made, I am bringing in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Vergestnitsch, Mr Silhavy and Mr Comrades on an offensive of more employment and growth, which I will now only explain in his key points. We call for a reduction in the seasonal tariff quotas in particular for tourism, an immediate increase in active labour market funding by at least €60 million, a medium-term increase in the budget for an active labour market policy by €250 million, a closure of the deficit in relation to childcare, a mandatory implementation of target-oriented information in connection with the possibilities of re-entry, the implementation of emergency measures related to infrastructure measures in the areas of road, rail, rail and communication, the repair of the lost tax reform in 2005 and, above all, that the youth reception network be equipped already in spring 2005 and not only in autumn, so that young people will also be helped. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] That and much more we demand. I think this is a labour market policy that can be seen, and I ask you to give your consent to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14229	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Csörgits in his key points by Mrs Gusenbauer, Mr Verzetznitsch, Mr Heidrun Silhavy on an offensive for more work and growth was presented in writing. I've already told him to be distributed a quarter of an hour ago because he's very extensive. The request will be negotiated and will then be voted. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14710	Mr Neudeck is now the last speaker to speak. 2 minutes of welcome; 6 minutes for the Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14731	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This work programme, which Mrs Csörgits has now submitted, makes you almost speechless! It calls for it, but it is certainly not possible to promote it by consent, because this only leads to debt policy and certainly not to new jobs. [[Call the SPÖ:You have no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser said that living was getting more expensive. I can only tell her: A study by TU shows that living in recent years has not been more expensive, at least not substantial or not about inflation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] What has increased is the operating costs, especially in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Wiener Stadtwerke!]] For the tenant it is the total rent, but these are the operating costs and not the rent itself. As far as the rent is concerned, it can even be seen that in the top areas in recent years... [[Abg. Gradwelt: But the farm costs are also part of the housing costs!]] Yes, the operating costs make the city Vienna. [[Abg. Grade:..., Energy taxation! Thank you, Wolfgang Schüssel!]] Calm down, colleague! Channel fees, water charges, all these are operating costs, the municipality... [[Abg. Gradwelt: Energy taxation!]] I must tell you that energy taxation does not increase operating costs in the old house because the electricity pays the tenants themselves and is therefore not statistically recorded. The study of TU shows that the rents for apartments in Austria have steadily increased in recent years, but steadily under inflation. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, the rents, but living became more expensive!]] Free rents have even fallen, and regulated rents have also increased below inflation. Mrs Moser, of course, there is an improvement in the housing market also in terms of quality, and it is revitalisation a price increase factor. However, this also requires better and more quality, and the revitalisation in the old building is causing high employment effects, because it is different from the new construction work-intensive and not machine-intensive.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14840	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. The remaining speaking time of his group is 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14862	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The ÖVP has meant it needs as a aftertaste to the 1. There is also a debate here in the house on May. - So far, so good. Nevertheless, I would like to say that this kind of symbolic policy, a succession of so-called summits, has reached its limits, and I think it is important that I hold this here again. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] We have the impression, Mr Khol, that the Gobi desert has now become independent, namely: The government believes that it is always on a summit or that it has to hurry; in fact, it is the flat landscape, just the desert, and every time a pile of sand comes, one rejoices at a “hope. ” [[Call the SPÖ... dunes! Dune!]] That's a little bit, I think, fitting for what's going on. If you look at the serial sequence of summits, you could get the feeling that the solution expertise that has completely come to your mind correlates directly with how many summits you are organizing. And that is the point for me to simply announce that in our group we are increasingly considering whether we are going to be at each Rodeo, which is being proclaimed from home and where primarily symbol politics is organised for the gallery. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ellwall: This is already a strong piece: caring for the jobs as...! - That's a strong piece!]] Yes, a strong piece – you say it! The point is indeed the quality of this summit. Look, if Members of the government think that this is not so important: Northwest Autobahn, North East Autobahn, then it may be that it might be Wurst, where you are going, that doesn't interest anyone anymore, but it didn't look much different the other quality of the summit either. [[Abg. Neugebauer:... Not even present!]] In the area of infrastructure, A4 has been distributed, where almost every second number is irrelevant in that it corresponds to your house number economy, which you otherwise operate, namely to add numbers that are not financed in the back and front. [[Abg. Großruck: He's talking about what he wasn't with!]] And of anything that is not financed, you promise to prefer it. And then one or the other, which may be a little more concrete, is added, but in principle: Of something that isn't much of that, it's also no special advantage to prefer – at least not one of the ones you wanted to announce here. I'm saying this in all the soberness. And this is the summit philosophy, which, I believe, will not carry much more. Everything has been said in the matter itself. I would also like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group: A bitsel late you have already brought it in, stood open – for how extensive it is. And because it's so extensive, you can find, of course, if you don't belong to the same party, a shadow spot every now and then. We see light and shadows: We agree, but not all that stands in it. Nevertheless: a hearty initiative from which we can certainly derive a multiannual programme; therefore our approval. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Molterer]] – Mr Molterer enjoys something like this, but: Failed, anything that has an ambition, as anything else, where you – with the team of an entire government and with me don’t know how many hundred officials in the background – don’t bring together more than a few pieces of papers, and a federal chancellor who tells the same thing again here – and then we have now for ten days 1. May or something. I'm sure this won't go on.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14953	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on Amendment No 600/A (E) tabled by Mrs Neugebauer, colleagues and colleagues on the Federal Government's employment offensive. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 102.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on an offensive for more work and growth. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[17:04:51]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15005	I take the negotiations on the 4th. The item on the agenda on the Court of Auditors' report on the sub-areas of the Federal Government's conduct is re-opened. Mr Grünewald spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15030	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I find it difficult to spread incense, and I am also somewhat economical in plenary, but I would like, after I have been in several committees and was finally able to cooperate more intensively in the Court of Auditors, to express my express praise to the Court of Auditors, because, unfortunately, politics rarely has the opportunity to act and think on the basis of high-quality reports, on the basis of facts and facts. This would, I believe, be exemplary for many other sectors, where the Court of Auditors may not examine them and which we still have to deal with here. In the Court of Auditors itself, which I do not otherwise belong to, I have also experienced that, on the basis of this data situation, it would be really possible to pursue policy on matters and perhaps meet where the house mind should be together, and I think this is very good. What I also think is good – then I quit with the praise – is the preliminary discussions, where one has the opportunity to hear the views of Court officials in the Court of Auditors on individual chapters and to exchange views with ours. It might be an incentive for other committees to take care of such a thing more intensively. I come – which is difficult enough in five minutes – to talk about the tuition fees very briefly. Unfortunately, these things were eaten, although the criticism was very justified, and one can only learn from them for the future. The Court of Auditors is right to say that there have been difficulties not only with the introduction of tuition fees, but also with their implementation, and also with the delicate chapter: How are study fees distributed to universities? At the time, it was not mentioned that these were given to universities within the scope of the so-called university billions. But if you know that in a year 36 million and in the second year 73 million have flown back to universities, and that according to relatively unclear, very variable and time-consuming criteria, you have to say: 36 million € and 73 million € are far from a billion. And that's my point of criticism. What is also to be said is that the project applications submitted by the universities to use these fees for themselves have landed somewhere in the Nirwana project selection, because one department in the science department has competed with the other with criteria, with university-friendly or rather university-critical assessments of these applications. It must be said that even this advisory and evaluation group in the ministry probably had more ideas on how to use money for students than it eventually had to distribute money, which is of course also a bad thing. With the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, which also includes this Court of Auditors report, I think it is very good that the Court of Auditors, as one of the few institutions, seems to believe in the value of high-quality tasks and of the state somewhere, and has already criticized somewhere that the differences of opinion between the agricultural sector, the health sector and the Ministry of Finance have not been particularly helpful in bringing this breakdown over the stage with reasonable and, so to speak, quality assurance. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the research funding organisations and about the criticism of the Court of Auditors. The criticism meets with our and my very, very much, insofar as the Court of Auditors demands that the multi-annual and sustainability of research funding be better ensured through regulatory budgets. I have this discussion with the Federal Government again and again: In the second half of the year, or even in autumn, it is not useful to see whether the National Bank is still dispensing something, whether the National Foundation is dispensing something, whether the Council for Research and Technology Development is still spending something to finally reach those sums that other countries – Switzerland and Germany – have exceeded by two to three times the population per capita. - That means there's something to do. The fact that the promotion of applications is much stronger than, so to speak, targeted support is a criticism that can be made, but I would like to protect the funds insofar as the Court of Auditors may not have been able to examine, or did not have time to examine, what the tasks of the Funds are, according to their statutes, in what political environment they can operate, in what budgets they are working with and what their specific task is. And that's where I have to say: The task to be researched in Austria lies – whether this is good or not – with the government and the Council for Research and Technology Development and not with the Research Fund. I easily crossed, but...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15081	Ladies and gentlemen! I have requested the minutes of Mr Lunacek's speech this morning, and I give her the sentence: “Mr. Federal Chancellor, what you have said here is demagogy...” is an order call. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Chief. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15108	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to deal here with the Court of Auditors' report on the main association of the Austrian social security institutions, because at the time, in my former role as Federal Minister for Social Affairs, I was also a client of this audit by the Court of Auditors. I would like to thank you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, and your officials for the work done. Unfortunately, the criticisms which I fear have been addressed in my letter to your predecessor with the mandate to examine have, as in my internal revision, been, in the end, not weakened by the main association in his counter-positions, but, on the contrary, fully underlined as a fact. I therefore believe that it was good that we have carried out this examination together and have also been in the interest of the taxpayer in good time, because one thing is also unmistakable: that, after the opposition of the main association to the company that is now implementing the chip card, much more staff has been pumped into the business for the implementation of the chip card and thus the slowing start also the second phase of the implementation of the chip card – or if one considers it legitimate: the fourth phase of the implementation of the chip card – has now come into play in the truest sense of the word and the rollout goes into the world with half-satisfying results until now. I do not want to hide the fact that the commission of university institutes to control and support the eo ipso procedure does not make me a major break, but it is probably the procedure chosen by the main association that people and companies are already financially taught before they are in existence by registration in the respective economic books. We have already learned about similar areas in the Ministry of Finance in the design of Mr Finanzminister's homepage, and I therefore have no pleasure at all in having to experience similar imitation structures through the main association in the field of social security. I am very pleased that this phase is now a thing of the past and that the institutions and business consortia resulting from a proper call for tender are actually fulfilling their obligations, for which they have received the contract and which are also provided with all guarantees to the taxpayer – and also in good time. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that this report by the main association of the Austrian social security funds concerning project e-card, first part – because it can also be seen that the Court of Auditors will also review the implementation now – is quite clear that the audit of the Court of Auditors also has a preventive effect, and in this sense I wish all of us a timely implementation of the chip card. However, I can also say two things from my point of view: On the one hand, it is noted that in 2000 and 2002 the time frame for which was completed at the time was too ambitious. An Austrian world company, the RHI, has ensured a chip card change from IBM system to another system for half a long period of time for all its businesses around the world, including safety access to laboratory facilities and other access points. It is therefore quite possible in the private sector to implement such ambitious projects. However, I already admit that it was more difficult to achieve ambitious targets in the field of the semi-governmental economy with the characteristics of social security providers and their desire not to participate in this system. But finally, we have achieved it and are implementing it. I would like to thank you once again, Mr President, for the success of your control and control of the members of your home, the Court of Auditors, in order also to enable world companies with networking across multiple countries to take the Austrian market and the Austrian tendering criteria seriously, and not to take care of withdrawal payments and legal problems in court alone, but to ensure the writing-out criteria and the implementation of the chip card in the interests of the Austrian health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15151	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15172	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' review of the introduction of the e-card has reached the following conclusions: Stumbling and big-style tax-money waste. The criticism is directed, among other things, against the number of staff spent. The concept of the main association originally provided for seven experts to implement the project. In 2004 it was already 45. [[Abg. Neudeck: There must be a different report from the SPÖ! It's not going to work! I think the Court of Auditors is making a blue and a red report. ...it's not that!]] You can talk from there. [[Abg. Neudeck: No, not now, because now you're talking!]] Whoever believes that more staff also means faster implementation, is wrong. In fact, it has meant that it has slowed down and become more expensive. Meaningless opinions and management errors led the first project in 2003 to an immeasurable end, with the result that €6 million was placed in the sand and the project was re-subscribed. The sum of the costs will ultimately amount to € 125 million – € 25 million thereof for external consultants. Many infringements of law then led to the resignation of six capital representatives in the Supervisory Board at the beginning of 2004. Result: new delay. Now, after about five years, the project is finally in place, and we hope that soon all of it will be achieved. In terms of content, the project is fine. Of course, the way to go has magnified this government's slump, and I think it's a matter of time until this government itself falls over it, and – marginal note –: [[Abg. Grillic: What? What's that? What did you say? “Brown of rubble” did you say? Mr President, did you hear that?]] The sooner, the better for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15252	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15273	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a Burgenlander, I can only tell you that the trial operation of the e-card in our country was a real success story and is a real success story. And I would like to congratulate our Federal Minister with all my heart! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] At the beginning of April 56 occupational doctors joined again. Thus, at the beginning of May, there were a total of 145 medical doctors and medical institutes in the e-card system. The 112 000 insured persons in Burgenland are fully satisfied with this – not only the main association tells us, I also hear it every day when I am in Burgenland at events. Entrepreneurs are also excited because they are rid of the annoying paperwork. And the doctors don't have to call all the patients who forgot their health certificates at the end of the quarter. All in all: satisfied faces. Now only the question remains: Why did it take so long? Why was this e-card such an infinite story? Or, otherwise asked: Why did this not work out already in 1999? [[Abg. Eder: Why didn't you come to the world earlier?]] And I can tell you why this didn't work out on the first start: The old leadership in the main association either did not want or did not make the e-card. No matter how it was, it was good that the Bureau and management were exchanged, because the new leadership then immediately implemented the e-card. The opposition obviously sees this change of leadership differently: One has defamed this change as a kind of paint action and has kept us from trying to replace the red officials with black ones. [[Call the SPÖ: A kind?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: A “art” is good!]] – Of course, that sold well, I have to admit, and it has also produced a corresponding vertebra. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] But in reality we had to make sure that something went on – not only with the e-card, but also with other reforms. [[Abg. Eder: In fact, it was much worse!]] – Well, probably so many red functionaries were inside that some black ones also had to enter! [[Abg. Eder: Look here!]] For this we were elected, and this is expected by the majority of Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15370	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15391	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! From the rear to the front: Mrs Lentsch, if you claim that you have been elected to change the main association – this is a harmless expression! [[Abg. Lens: That we do something!]] They said: “A kind of”, but, please, that’s really insurmountable – insurmountable! In retrospect, everyone has seen where the wind blows here, why this attack was driven on Sallymutter! [[Abg. Lens: Something's happening!]] And now, since you can get closer to the historical truth from a certain distance, you come here, warm up “the bubbling ” again and spray over it again. That's incredible! You are lucky that only a few people are in the hall now, because there would certainly have been a number of people from your group wondering how to allow such a misstep – I don't understand that at all – but, among us, Members: Sometimes something happens. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – But so much historical truth you already have to hold for the protocol. It is also a proof from my point of view that it is in public administration there or there, and certainly not because of Sallymutter, not only because the ÖVP has won so much at the expense of the now blue/oranges the last time, but that is a fundamental problem, that is already right. That is why the more than obligatory thanks to the Court of Auditors, because here – and I am now just grabbing out a project, namely the e-card project – was again demonstrated in minute work, like such a large project – and in this case you really have to say: with an announcement and with a start – has been “forgone”. But so it can't be that in retrospect only Sallymutter should be blamed – no! If you look at the report in half detail, you're going to think it's already starting in the ministry. Although there has also been changed, the error rate has not become smaller after the blue-black turn, but it has remained constant, even increased. So it is, you have to take note of that! [[Abg. Neudeck: You need to prove this more!]] And with that, we are already at the very point – and you simply have to say that on the occasion of such reports: Such a control prevention – it is not an elegant word, but it is nevertheless a real and important one – as in recent years, there has never been! This begins with witness loads and listens to many other things that you allow yourself to stop where you are often not willing to appreciate this work in the necessary acribie, as this speech has proved again. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is the chairman! The chairman has no control of this!]] Such contributions can still be heard in the Committee. It is true, however, that you, or individuals of yours, would make the effort to go to the Court of Auditors more often and see what is behind these most compressed reports – which, of course, cannot include everything, but only different summaries – would result in what all this would produce and produce. After all, we have – supposedly so scarcely enough – to make public concessions of all kinds, whether in the communities – they are kept ever more narrow, Mr. Gaßner knows – or, in part, in the countries, but especially in the distributed societies, and ultimately in the federal government. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... not much to forgive anymore!]] And here – I am staying with this exemplary project – it has once again shown how the “one-smear” is worked and driven, namely: There are several exclamation criteria for the supplement, which are ultimately weighted together, and see here: The time criterion is important; so who expresses it – how do you express it now? – Until the introduction is faster, it has a special advantage. - Good. That's it! And it's good if you want it fast. But it is not valid in the back and front! So: A criterion receives a high weighting; the company that claims to be particularly strong in this field is likely to receive the award for the order, as well here – and it was not a smaller one! What happens then? – A few months after this supplement, the same consortium says: Hoppala, now we think of something! It's not going so fast, we need more time. In addition to that, the ministry did not bring the necessary “on the journey, ” even the legal requirements were not fast enough, but that could have been thought of! – Only, vice versa, it is just the same: The consortium is also of the opinion, well, that's not how you might have figured it out! These are the classic sins in forgiveness! Here it was the time criterion. In the field of awarding in the Ministry of Finance – which should be of particular interest with good example – the same happens by weighting, for example, the price criterion as low as possible, something else particularly high, so that the expensive companies can get to the train, possibly acquaintances of the Minister of Finance. We find this pattern everywhere, and that is why this is another excellent report from the Court of Auditors, in which small and large sins have been shown in a large project. Your continued refusal of control will at least partly prove you with your committee's work and with such speeches if you do not even want to take note of the Quintessence of such reports.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15492	Next, Mrs Bleckmann spoke. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15513	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Kogler is the chairman of the Court of Auditors' Committee, so it is up to him to look at the fact that the Committee is as efficient and efficient as possible and that the Quintessence is then worked out. You should do the same. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: They prevent this by a majority!]] – I myself am a member of this committee and I think that we are really discussing a lot and enough. We should consider whether it should perhaps not be possible to bring Court of Auditors reports to the house more quickly, and there have already been some proposals on the part of the President in his election. If we are discussing a particular report, but the things that are shown in it are partly already very outdated or – to speak with the words of Mr Green Forest – the matter is “eated”, then a discussion in this House is no longer so interesting and exciting to the public, because in principle one cannot do much more. For example, in areas such as tuition fees, we know that these are now matters of university autonomy – as said: the thing is “eated”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Learning for the next committees!]] In this respect, the report is quite informative, but outdated. As far as research is concerned, we know that a lot has already been done on the part of the government. The Court of Auditors' first raw report has already been taken up in order to bring about immediate changes, including to set up a roof organisation that is already in place, which is efficient and functioning well. There are, of course, still more proposals for improvement – not a question – but what was feasible and possible in the form of restructuring and merger has been made. It is still being spent by this government as much money as it has never been for research. You can't mention that often enough. If it is said that there is criticism of the money, one must of course also think about the plurality. There has already been a lot of progress in that there are at least already commitments for two years. That's an improvement! As I said, Research has a very high priority for this government. To conclude again: We should really consider how to bring reports to the House faster, because this report is signed on June 2004. Of course, we had many meetings in which we discussed the various areas, but we should still consider how we could speed it up. I think Mr Kogler will certainly be in favour.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15579	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15600	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to thank you very much for the praise that all of you have unisono expressed in the work of the Court of Auditors. I believe that even Klubobmann Scheibner has done so in one of his debates. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not yet!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That was still with the beautify!]] This shows the quality and stability of the Court of Auditors. The remark that the Court of Auditors will be made a “salt” – I know it was not meant that way – is therefore unfair and would certainly not be fair to the work of the Court of Auditors staff. Mrs Bleckmann raised the question of how the Court of Auditors' reports can be dealt with more quickly in the House. It also stated at the end of its debate that this report had already been sent to the National Council in June 2004. We will therefore work from the Court of Auditors – I have already announced this, we are currently working on it – to bring more up-to-date, to be faster, to address up-to-date issues. Since we need a cooperation between the National Council and the Court of Auditors, I would like to ask in this context for the necessary assistance from the National Council or the Court of Auditors to ensure that the reports are actually put into the plenary session more quickly. I would also like to thank you very much for the fact that the Court of Auditors' reports have been discussed and debated very intensively in the Court of Auditors' Committee since the beginning of my term of office in July 2004. This also takes account of the arguments put forward by the Court of Auditors. With regard to what the Court of Auditors' recommendations are worth, I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors is an institution, an auxiliary body of the National Council, which is therefore the responsibility for control of the National Council. We carry out the examinations, make recommendations to you, but it is in the final effect with you or with the audited bodies, what happens to these recommendations. I can assure you that the Court of Auditors is doing everything possible to ensure that the recommendations are actually implemented. In the context of one of these debates, I have also announced that I will pass on the problem area “commitment of advisory services” in written form to the Federal Government. I have done so, and the Council of Ministers has also dealt with it. It is also seen that something is going on on in this question – even if not to that extent, as one would wish – that has been done on the basis of this letter. I read to you briefly from a letter on this matter – without a name designation, because I did not get the consent –: I took your letter – i.e. the letter from me – on the occasion of making clear to the authorities in my department the main problems identified by the Federal Court of Auditors, as well as the principles set out in the Perception Report on the award of contracts and advisory services. I have also stressed that your institution will use these principles in future conduct reviews as an assessment measure for the commissioning of external advisory services. - Quote. This shows that the work of the Court of Auditors is very beneficial. Of course, it is important for the Court of Auditors to stick to its recommendations and also to point out that certain points are still open in order to ensure that the administration is actually carried out in a economical, economic and appropriate way. It is also true that, as Mrs Bleckmann said, for example, the examination of the study contributions took place during a period when the university law did not yet exist in 2002. However, this review has led to the fact that the main problems and recommendations identified by the Court of Auditors at that time have been addressed and since now 1. January 2004 will also be observed by the universities – that is, a success in the end, because, in silent cooperation with the audited bodies, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors have been implemented very well. I would also like to point out that, for example, in the final effect of the Science Fund, many things have been implemented by what the Court of Auditors has proposed, which naturally confirms the Court of Auditors' activities. As far as the e-card is concerned, there are three tests, which have already been announced: An examination is under consideration today; a further examination, I can promise you, will be sent to the House in the near future – e-Card 2 deals with the years 2003 and 2004 – and a further examination will deal with the phase of the introduction, i.e. the current implementation of the project. In this area very serious shortcomings have happened, it has not been sparing and economically active, the project organisation was partly disastrous. Of course, it is necessary to draw its conclusions, and I hope that, on the basis of the second report that will then be available to you, or – should this not be the case in some respects – it will at least be taken to the occasion to act better on the basis of the experience gained in other areas of this project. In this context, I would like to ask you to support the work of the Court of Auditors, but at the same time I can assure you that the Court of Auditors will continue to show its backbone in the future and do everything to provide you with the necessary information so that, in the interests of taxpayers, money can actually be saved by efficient, economic and appropriate management, which is at all possible for other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15652	Next, Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15674	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! There is also a report on support for disabled young people in the III-86 Perception Report of the Supplements. I think that this is a very important part of the matter, but the Court of Auditors therefore offers the only evaluation of the employment offensive which the Government strongly promotes. No evaluation is carried out – or not published – by the Ministry, so it is all the more important that the Court of Auditors deal with this issue. On the contrary: The government is constantly threatened by the abolition of the Federal Social Offices. The Court of Auditors notes, however, that the Federal Social Offices are essential and important as centres of competence for disabled people in our country, and that they also need to focus more on this work in order to streamline the many bites that disabled people have to make to different places in Austria, so that the Federal Social Offices serve as the only point of contact. It is also true that not many figures and data on disabled people are available, so there is no planning or planning is difficult. This means that there are only short-term reliefs and measures, such as the employment offensive. There is currently no offensive and all-encompassing policy for disabled people on the part of the Federal Government. The employment plan only serves the government as a fig leaf, without taking into account how it should be evaluated. [[Abg. Großruck: (a chronicle article from the evening edition of the “Kurier” with the title “Continueing privileges for party-related providers of social benefits”) Read the article today about the SPÖ Vienna in the “Kurier”!]] . Although you are now speaking to me, Mr Großruck, perhaps you could take this into account! [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ.]] The employment offensive is an essential measure, always said by the government, but only money is distributed to disabled people without considering how to make targeted policies for disabled people.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15759	The next item is the speech by Mr Schöls. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15782	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not of the opinion of Mr Kogler that we are in the Court of Auditors' refusal to monitor, but that we are very well aware of and very serious about the Court of Auditors' reports. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] I would therefore also like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors for their experience in the public debate that the opposition always turns out to be the blind spot. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: They can't do anything for you...!]] What did the Court of Auditors criticise on the specific question of e-card? – The preparation of the work! The problem of dealing with the past with the Socialist Group, because it was socialist Social Ministers, began from Hums to Hostasch, who was also responsible as the Chamber of Labour, and the socialist officials in the main association of social security, from Sallmutter to Oberchrist, and similar, who were in this project, which was promised great in 1996, with a preliminary period of one year simply and simply were unable to put it up well. It was in the ministry of the Herbert Haupt when he pulled the emergency brake when we took the responsibility and took the right steps. The Court of Auditors report rightly criticises the poor preparation by SPÖs. The President-in-Office has announced that reports 2 and 3 will allow us to work out what has now been done by the competent Minister for Smoking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reheat]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Where's that?]] That is why I am glad that we have these Court reports. They show us where it is necessary to make a change of course. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You will have to take note that if you are not in charge – before you have prevented this control – you will be controlled. This is what the Court of Auditors report has done, and we are discussing it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15846	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. Requested time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15868	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Once again, in admirable focus, the Court of Auditors has exposed and criticized the abuses in the area of the entire chip card project. I can't keep a few examples from the e-card 1 exam. For example, the preparatory work on this project had already begun before there was a comprehensive legal framework at all. This has not only increased the project risk, but has also significantly increased project costs. The objectives of the project have not been achieved at any point, you should remember that by the government groups. The total cost of the project will be 130 million, with an economically hardening amortisation time of 16 years. As always, the generous assignments of external experts – but that already has style – are very problematic. Complaints have been filed, as we know, the prosecutor has been turned on. It's from a large national economy. Harm the speech. Contracts have been awarded against the procurement directives and are still over-priced. A little more sensible and expensive commissioning of a research group in the field of TU Vienna is criticized as much as the above-average, i.e. 45 percent above-high-level terms of management of this group compared to other collective contracts. The Court of Auditors received relevant documents, the Supervisory Board was tricked and the procurement law of Managing Director Kandlhofer was ignored. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is to be read in the Court of Auditors' report and also in the media. Reactions: The head of the Social Minister at his time feels confirmed by the devastating criticism of the Court of Auditors' report, which he sees as an urgent need for action. And as was not to be expected, the Karawanken-Echo was to be heard again: It is a question of criminal consequences. From the office of the Minister for Health was to be heard: What Haider says is not wrong, and what is stated in the Court of Auditors' report has its authority. However, the Minister at the time did not think she was responsible for the responsibility to the head of colleagues. He, in his inimitable manner and in an approach to neighbourhood assistance from the Minister, explained her responsibilities, which was to be read. The Managing Director of the Main Association explains: No cent or euro has been unnecessarily “brought. ” He puts one more on it: If you want top performance, it costs something. – Neither the President of the Court of Auditors nor anyone else believes that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! This procedure shows once again the professionalism of the managers you are using, the carefree handling of the tax money and the lack of interest in the really important topics. You don't seriously believe that anyone supports this chaos – we Social Democrats certainly don't!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15910	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has been reported next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15931	Madam President. Mr President. High house! Mr Christ, I would have been a little careful about all the accusations you have made. [[Abg. Wimmer: Where he is right, he is right!]] I am here relatively loose, because this Court of Auditors report refers to a period when all this responsibility has run out among Social Democratic Social Ministers and under a head of the Association of Sallmutter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You are right, Mr Kaipel, if you say that it has been a mess. That was the mess that my predecessor Herbert Haupt and I had to clean up. [[Abg. Gaál: That's not true!]] Please read the Court of Auditors' report carefully! I can tell you that the chip card is going back to 1993. The Court of Auditors' report starts in 1996, where the Minister of Social Affairs was hostasch, when I remember correctly, and there was a head of the association of President Sallmutter. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Within two and a half years, i.e. 1998/1999, the card should be introduced; in 1999 there was no card. [[Abg. May. Worm: I wash my hands in innocence!]] So I'd be a little careful here. [[Abg. Reheis: Five years you have...!]] However, I give the Court of Auditors and Herbert Haupt the right to have serious shortcomings in project management. When I took office in March 2003, I was confronted with the fact that the management of the main association at that time had to get out of the contract, which she had not concluded. One has to thank Dr. Kandlhofer, the management president at the time, very much for the fact that he succeeded in replacing the damage that had arisen from the company and thus averting material damage. Ladies and gentlemen! No one can make up for the delay in time. I can also tell you that in the last two years, I have had my hands full to do with keeping project management halfway on the line. Live the self-government – a minister has relatively few means of intervention! At that time, project management – which will be shown by the next Court of Auditors reports – has sometimes simply put good advice into the wind and only had to be put to a great deal of effort to ensure that the project has actually become operational. Thankfully, I can tell you that the project works, even if some of them may be disappointed. The card is available, since the end of February in Burgenland, in the trial shop, with more than 100,000 insured and 85 doctors who have volunteered. Another 45 doctors from the region have already reported in this trial operation alone, which runs until the end of May: You also want to have the equipment with the health card, with the infrastructure. It will start the regular “roll out” at the end of May, rolling out the health card is full of time. We can assume, after the medical profession has now withdrawn its concerns and become friends with them – even the Chamber of Physicians is looking forward to taking over this project with a very slight delay – that at the end of 2005 all medical practices of contract doctors will be equipped with the necessary infrastructure and the insured persons with the health cards, so that at the latest with 1. January 2006 the health certificate will be history. In this way, Austrian insurers will not only have a modern national health card, but also an international one that will replace the foreign health certificate. We are also a little ahead of some other European countries. In this sense, I also repeatedly thank the Court of Auditors for constructive criticism. It was hard work, but it has finally been brought to a good end.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16023	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gaßner to speak. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16076	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. It's exciting, Mrs Federal Minister, I don't know what's going on with you, what the Social Democrats owe you. But if I calculate exactly: 1996 to 1999, three years – okay, there was no e-card. 2000 to 2005, five years – there is no e-card yet! It is not true – as Mrs Lentsch thanked you and respectfully turned to you – that this e-card is used throughout Burgenland. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Not yet!]] [[Abg. Lentsch: I said...!]] I have information that it is exactly 60 doctors, dear Mrs. Federal Minister, and two districts will most likely be equipped with it from June onwards. I know the Burgenland has seven districts, so five have not yet. I can't thank you either, in Upper Austria she doesn't have anyone at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also very interesting if you come back briefly to Mrs Bleckmann. They meant that the reports should come faster. D’accord! But do you know what's even more important? – That the reports are taken seriously and that, as a member of the Court of Auditors, not what bothers me personally, the raw reports are always outside in advance and are discussed in the media! The best example is the e-card report: Mr. Landeshuptmann of Kärnten Jörg Haider has already shown the raw report to the “profile” and is talking about criminal machinations there. This, I think, is very damaging to the reports and work in the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I quote from the report to assess all this e-card problem. That's what it says: Objectives of the main association: According to the objectives of the main association, the chip card is to replace the health certificate at the first expansion stage, and so on. To this end, the Court of Auditors: The Court of Auditors notes that the objectives of the main association have not been achieved in any way. Mrs. Federal Minister! They are also responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16145	No one has made any mention of this. This debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall be voting on the request of the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-86 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[17:53:30]] 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-82 d.b.) of the Court of Auditors on budgetary consolidation (873 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16191	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Reheis. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16218	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. If you look at what has already been discussed this afternoon, especially in the treatment of the urgent ones, you also have to note here that this Federal Government is the highest indebtedness, a drastic reduction in pensions, a failed transport policy, the sale of the country, a dramatic unemployment rate – the highest unemployment since 1945! – an educational crisis, growing crime, rural famine and much more to blame. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But for that, ladies and gentlemen, we are making the most expensive billions deal of the Second Republic. [[Abg. Neudeck: That was until 2000!]] Now we have the Court of Auditors officially: In the second Republic's largest arms acquisition, Schwarz-Blau I and the then FPÖ defense minister Herbert Scheibner did not just rely on tarns and sluices, no: The purchase of the 18 Eurofighters was carried out unprofessionally, he said! This, ladies and gentlemen, does not say Gerhard Reheis, but that says Günther Schröder in the "Tyrol daily" of 21. April 2005, and he meets exactly what we have always said here, ladies and gentlemen: Unprofessional and with numerous inconsistencies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As we discussed the health reform earlier: After the flood disaster, the number of catchers was reduced to 18. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A less interception hunter – and the health reform would be financed, ladies and gentlemen! But where it would be useful, you don't reduce it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, we have found massive costs which have increased since the first discussion. First, the purchase cost €1.132 billion, and now we are at €2 billion, without taking into account the operating costs and without taking into account the training of the pilots for the interceptors. [[Abg. Neudeck:... call for business? He's talking about the wrong report!]] It is no wonder that the Court of Auditors criticises the following: Not every Eurofighter likes to fly in the dark; the Court of Auditors sees a lack of willingness to use the Eurofighters, because they were bullied during the purchase, and so on. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's not in the report at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Inconsistencies existed with the costs to be clarified, inconsistencies have been identified in the tendering procedure. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's not in there!]] They refuse the Enlightenment. There are new burdens which have also not been clarified, and the economic platform, announced by the Federal Chancellor, is the top-flop: This economic platform has never existed! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neudeck.]] This is simply and simply the most expensive wrong decision of the Second Republic – and they have you to answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16338	Mrs Tamandel's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16359	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I think Mr Reheis has confused the report because we are talking about the Court of Auditors' report on fiscal consolidation in 2001 and 2002. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He didn't read the other one either!]] It was very successful. [[Abg. May. Worm: Is that embarrassing for you...?]] While the zero deficit was mainly on the revenue side in 2001, which was mainly due to the interest rate of timely tax payments and not to tax increases, the fiscal consolidation in 2002 was mainly based on expenditure-side measures or savings of almost €2 billion. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The 2002 Budget Rehabilitation...! Incredible! My colleague, you are doing some educational work in your club!]] The countries and municipalities have also fulfilled their obligations under the Austrian Stability Pact in 2001, thus making a significant contribution to fiscal consolidation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] However, as the Court of Auditors report shows, all the federal states, except Lower Austria and Vienna, were able to reduce their Maastricht debt. Vienna managed to increase its debt by 4 percent from 2000 to 2004! [[Abg. Neugebauer: ( towards SPÖ) Incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, if you, in your usual leader, narrow down the achievements of the Federal Government and doubt the figures and arguments that prove the success, then I advise you to verify your own statements once and to check for the truth content. A small example of this from the website of the Vienna SPÖ, for example: “The Federal Capital has had a balanced budget since 2001. - Oh, that's right? In addition, one reads: “Vienna has consistently depreciated debt in recent years.” And it's still there: “We have achieved all of this without social reduction and load packages.” Oh, that's interesting! Let us take a look at the Vienna tariff increases in recent years. The Vienna lines, for example, made a massive increase in tariffs in June 2002, even by 25 percent at individual prices. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Was that more or less than inflation?]] Or since September 2002, for example, €196 per month for the full-day visit of cribs and kindergartens, which corresponds to an increase of 7 percent, and for a half-day spot, it is even 20 percent increase. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... not raised!]] We don't need to talk about the garbage charges at all: The basic amount for 110 liters and 129 liters of content was increased by 25.9 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What was inflation?]] – This list would continue forever, we would be standing here tomorrow – a list of alleged SPÖ truths! Take a look at your own door, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Mrs. Tamandel, you are...!]] And while you do that, always think about it: Austria is on a successful path – and will continue to do so with this Federal Government! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16515	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16536	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous item on the agenda is as follows: We are pleased when government members are present in debates on a report on the Court of Auditors. It is a bit strange, however, that Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has almost made a statement of caution. This is, in itself, unusual and not in the sense of a genuinely encouraging debate here. But be it! In other cases, we do so, and I do not actually see why we should do this differently in the case of control reports. That's exactly where it would be indicated that there would be an exchange of views. Anyway: I'm not talking to the interceptors, I'm not afraid! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nevertheless, there is a connex to the present. It is also a matter of a lot of money in this budget consolidation report. It is clear that many agree on one point, namely that this is the most expensive misinvestment in Republic history. – Tag year of thought. But we're going to discuss that. For the present budgetary consolidation exercise report: There's a lot to say. Let us now talk about the budgetary policy of the Federal Government or acknowledge the work of the Court of Auditors. I mean, you can both. I would like to draw a close to the budgetary policy which is being drawn in the report in the light of the economic research institute. Just before that, the so-called zero deficit became again – which is actually a strange expression! – celebrated for 2001. The restrictive budgetary policy continued in 2002. That's exactly what they can read in here. However, there are macroeconomic studies on how this has affected. The restrictive effects, i.e. those that dampen economic prosperity, were estimated at minus 0.4 percent in 2001 and minus 0.9 percent in 2002. This, of course, has a causal link, which is additional effects as an impact of fiscal policy measures, in addition to the economic situation which has already been significantly weakened. We have often told you that enough, and I think it is not the problem whether or not any budget balance goes out in between. It could also be positive as in the Scandinavian countries. However, there is a need to discuss another tax policy or other measures. However, that it is accurate for the year in which world economic demand has declined most significantly, the Austrian Minister of Finance wants to be celebrated to this day for the fact that in 2001, at the most unfortunate time – macroeconomic; personally he has brought about a number of unfortunate times – which have been forced by various measures – they have been mentioned – that this should not remain unmentioned, and this is also stated in this report. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are just a few basic economics that should lead you back to your mind. Apart from that, very many preferential effects have also contributed to this. And here, in 2002, for which it had actually been forecast, it was suddenly gone again anyway, because the same taxes that came in early were of course missing again in the following year, which to predict was not art either. This leads me to another point: the sad question of double budgets. Again and again, we note that, no matter in which direction the deviation from the forecast balance takes place, it is positive and negative, although it is a federal financial law that we decide here, the deviation is the higher, the further the time of the decision is removed from execution. That's quite logical, too. Double budgets now have this in themselves so that at least the second year is gone, that is quite logical, and that is why we have more and more applied for our scepticism. You could read that out again. I am still taking a point that has been working on us for a long time, in fact, the Republic is much longer than the Greens, namely that under the cover, it is almost necessary to say that federalism is simply held up and the party is gripping. And this should lead to the so-called black half of the empire again. This report also deals with federal restrictions on the financial flows. We experience again and again – for example, in questions of housing promotion – that the federal government produces a lot of money. This is really a strange process: The countries are always yelling at how great they are budgeting or something else. They do not take a single tax, get the money, then, as it were, slightly smell with the full pants – and at the same time point to the waistband. And what happens in the housing promotion? This is still about €1.8 billion per year, please. – There are federal states, of which this is spent for something – just not for housing promotion. This is also to be read from this report. Not enough with it: Some of the so-called consolidation efforts of the countries have only been made for this reason – you can also read this here – because they have already sold the recoveries from the residential loans and other maastricht-cosmetic measures, if you simply want to express them, have been carried out. For example, the countries will be responsible for a certain limit, and this entire Maastricht Rodeo will soon bring an evil awakening – it will not take long, because there is no longer much for creative accounting. All of this is done with the wonderful participation of the alleged consolidation party ÖVP. This house number economy is ready soon!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16614	Next, Mr. Dr. Finz will speak. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16636	Madam President. High house! What was the situation in 2000? – We had to end 30 years of debt making, making debt to the extent of up to 5 percent deficit per year. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What does that mean when you make so many debts? – With a €60 billion budget, this means an annual interest rate service of between €6 billion and €7 billion. The youth must make interest payments of € 6 to 7 billion for old debt. The money is then missing for the universities, which is missing for social transfers and for many more. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Although there was a savings package in 1995/96, the deficit is still 2.2 percent in 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You do not speak here in your function as ÖVP-Obmann!]] Still at 2.2 percent! The total debt ratio was 66.5 percent – with a tax burden ratio of 44 percent. Where are we today, in 2006? – Despite the biggest tax reform of all time, we will only have a deficit of 1.7 percent of €3 billion! The total debt ratio has fallen to 62.8 percent, and we reach almost 40 percent with the tax burden. These figures speak for themselves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16688	Next, Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16712	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! It was quite surprising that the colleagues of the SPÖ had become more punctual when they heard their own debt figures, but that is also part of their past. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's part of your past! In a television show, Mr Cap confused the FPÖ's debts with yours. I still don't want to exchange, I'm just telling you. So think before you say something! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Reheis spoke here about the Eurofighters, and he did not even read the Court of Auditors' report, but probably the "Tyrol daily". Today, we have three Court of Auditors on the agenda: one part of the federal birth, the Perception Report, the Budget consolidation and then the Relevant Limitation Act. Mr. Reheis, where did you find the plane in there? - Nowhere! However, today the "Tyrol daily" was not on the agenda, but the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Waste was the subject, and it fits quite well!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to consolidate the budget, the Court of Auditors has also said critical things – they have already heard from opposition colleagues – but has also noted that, in addition to increased budgetary discipline and structural measures, the surplus of the countries was the reason, in particular, for the conversion of housing support to the most neutral loan models and the positive application of the interpretations of the European system of national accounts and the allocation of hospitals and the real estate company, why a balanced budget or a lower deficit could be achieved. It should also be noted that the reorientation of housing development has contributed around 50 percent to the stability-related surpluses of the countries. Ladies and gentlemen, if a colleague here has said that housing promotion is in part already granted for other things and not only for housing, then the question is whether this is done directly through the countries or on the way through non-profit societies. I therefore believe that it is urgently necessary to extend the Court of Auditors' audit to non-profit housing companies, because I believe that we could do something to consolidate the budget once again, because then housing promotion would be of real benefit to those in need and would no longer be support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16758	The next item is the speech by Mr Böhm. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16780	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For the first time in 30 years, Austria had no longer made any new debts in 2001, as Mr Finz, the State Secretary, did. The zero deficit became reality; the trend reverse was successful. The starting point was extremely difficult. Let's remember: Through a large debt mountain, Austria was in the shooting field of criticism. Austria was far away from a balanced budget as provided for in the EU Stability and Growth Pact. At the level of the budget deficit, Austria was the final light in the EU. Budget consolidation means not only reducing expenditure, at least taking away something, or increasing revenue, but at least imposing new taxes on citizens. Budget consolidation is therefore never pleasant, but unfortunately we had the problem that there was no alternative to budget consolidation. An “alternative” would have been to continue making debts and not to guarantee the future of our children. We have certainly not been able to answer that question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And now that it's about sugars, can you answer for it?]] The Court of Auditors confirms the success of the Austrian budget policy in the years 2000 to 2002. After three decades of partly significant budget deficits and thus increasing debt, public finances were successfully consolidated in the years 2000 and 2002 despite the generally difficult economic situation. The 2000 consolidation pact only provided for a balanced government budget for 2002. – According to the report, the zero deficit was already achieved in 2001 with a surplus of 0.3 percent of the gross domestic product and thus a year earlier than planned or confirmed by a low deficit of 0.2 percent in the following year. The Court of Auditors report highlights that consolidation was mainly carried out in 2002 through expenditure-side measures. The expenditure ratio, i.e. public expenditure in relation to gross domestic product, fell from 54.2 per cent to 52.4 per cent of GDP. I come to the conclusion: In line with the objectives of the Federal Government, the Court of Auditors stresses the long-term stabilisation of public finances and refers to the need for a balanced general government budget, even though in the short term the budgetary deficit is expected to increase, in particular through tax reform 2004 and 2005, and this in the sense of the Austrian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16822	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-82. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and accepted. [[18:15:00]] 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-115 final report) of the Court of Auditors in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 Relevant limitation law for the years 2002 and 2003 (871 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16869	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Mulder. Requested time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16898	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are discussing the Court of Auditors' income report today, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you, Mr President Dr Moser, and your staff for the very elaborate report. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] However, the data of the Court of Auditors report clearly confirms that in Austria we are dealing with a very embarrassing development of real income. In line with the increase in inflation, we have seen a fall in the incomes of middle-sized workers, i.e. the slight increase in incomes has been absorbed by inflation. This development can also be demonstrated by looking at the social status of the individual self-employed persons. Really alarming are the gender-specific income differences, which are further intensifying. The competent Minister of Women has not managed to reduce the income scarcity between men and women, between the sexes. In fact, I see it as a white cynicism, when the woman minister told all those workers who between 2002 and 2003 were confronted with a decline in income of 1.9 percent, namely, to 7 685 € net median annual income, to say that personal responsibility was needed, as was the case with the APA issue of 29. This was done on December of the previous year. However, this cannot be the answer to those employees who want to know why the female employees still earn 38 percent less than the male employees. A major cause of these differences in incomes is part-time employment, which has increased since 1980 from 17 percent to 33 percent in 2003. In the same APA issue, the Minister of Women said that she would rather if women were part-time jobs than not at all. – This is a matter of course for me. However, this cannot be the answer, because it is obvious that we must do everything we can to improve the framework conditions and do everything we can to bring about a change. This requires a whole set of measures. There has been some evidence in the Social Report; Reform needs have also been identified in the OECD report. These measures range from the father-protection month to the extension of childcare facilities and increased funding for the AMS for women's priorities to a women's employment fund. All of this would be necessary for a long time, but nothing can be expected from the Minister for Women in this respect; she has capitulated. It will be up to a social democratic government to address the problem of income inequality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16947	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. Requested speaking time also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16969	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The third report of the Court of Auditors first and foremost lays down the average income referred to in Article 1(8). 4 of the Remuneration Restriction Act by Sector, Vocational Training In 2002 and 2003, groups and functions were based on the surveys of the Bundesanstalt Statistik Austria. The report referred to in Article 1(8)(b) is also intended. 3 of the Relevant Restriction Act on legal entities subject to the control of the Court of Auditors, was not allowed on the basis of a constitutional court's knowledge, since this was where provisions of the Data Protection Directive precluded the application of those provisions of the Relevant Restriction Act and did not permit the publication of the rights and the procurement of data for that purpose. The numbering work produced in a praiseworthy manner is based on administrative data and, in particular, on tax and social security data. For example, the income of self-employed and self-employed persons, agricultural and forestry data and pensioners' incomes were displayed on around 400 pages. For the first time, the report also presents income results in conjunction with information on working time, as suggested by the previous report, in order to ensure a more objectiveness of the data. Ladies and gentlemen! This Court of Auditors report provides a comprehensive picture of the average income of the Austrian population in 2003. On average, self-employed persons earned 21 060 €; differentiated between women and men: 15 380 € the women and on average 25 830 € the men. The average annual income is highest in male officials, the second highest in female officials, and the third highest in male employees. All other figures can It is based on the extensive work carried out by telephone book holder before the President of the Court of Auditors. The pensioners' income was 14 220 € on average. If you continue to distinguish between pension insurance institutions, the gross annual income of the two social insurance institutions of the self-employed is among those of the self-employed. Special low pensions can be seen by pensioners of the farmers' social security institution. Here is the average income of the pension at an altitude of €8,774. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for preparing this extensive report. The commitment of the President of the Court of Auditors to further differentiate this report and to bring in more final text will be an even better reference work and help for decision-making in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17017	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17038	Madam President. At 4 minutes speaking time, I leave the thick report on the bench. – Anyway: a good work. I think President Moser will be able to explain, if he is still in his position, how this can be made even better and more comprehensible for the users of the report, in particular the Members. So I want to get into the matter immediately after this praise. It is, of course, unfortunate as to part 1 of the salary file, which in fact does not exist in this report and does not happen because, of course, the Constitutional Legislator meant and wanted something clever in the 1990s. Whether this is still remedial or not, we could really break our head over it. I do not want to mention that this good idea was to be so ‘salopped’ by then. I have to tell you that the European Convention on Human Rights, Data Protection and otherwise, if we do not formulate the law, not against the fact that these terms exist, because it is true that even on European soil, even people who are not in public employment at all are covered by their tax payments in very many countries, quite normally, quite regularly, almost telephonically with their incomes. One may not want to, but, please, the fundamental rights in Europe would certainly not contradict that. So we can sink this pathos again. Perhaps we didn't make that smart enough as a constitutional legislator. We could – and we should clean it up. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Neudeck.]] Next point: The development of income is clearly evident in this report. It must be added that it is hardly in any place inflation-adjusted. This is not the weakness of the report, however, because it is a matter of getting over it. We have done this, and we have come to the conclusion that this is true even in the case of gross contributions, not even in the case of net payments, because this federal government has not done anything for years, and the persons involved in the lower incomes have not received anything, except the taxes. This has remained so until the end, please! [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, go, go, go!]] The 2 to 2.5 million people who earn the least – whether they be pensioners, even employees, many women – get exactly zero from their so-called “relief for all”. You only have loads! And that's why we won't tire of repeatedly pointing out this -- orderly-calling word -- misinformation. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you look very tired!]] We simply don't let that happen, because the real situation is dramatic enough! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But not enough with gross wages stagnating at the lower 10 or 20 percent of income: They're going back net! This is the finding that the market does not even produce gross wages, that is, before taxes. That has to give you a chance to think where this is going! And we can calculate this by 1995 – President Verzellnich knows that – where in certain income segments there is actually a severe stagnation. Of course, this is the result of many factors, but you can't pretend that there is not really a targeted approach and that it really is a poverty reduction programme that really deserves this name, and also employment initiatives that go beyond what is being promoted and what you are so glad about. Not that part-time as such is bad, no, but if that leads to people who could and wanted to earn even more, not being able to do so, then this is a problem. The President of the Court of Auditors knows exactly how he can still break this up statistically, and he has already said so in the Committee. There are really the poverty indicators that can be read out. That is why, in fact, the Court of Auditors once again praises it, because this is a report that makes it possible for economic policy makers and social politicians to work well with. That was not even to be expected without asking for anything else. The thing works and works – and it's a really good thing. All of this – I am already done – against the background of a debate that is now completely justified if one wants to have a so-called debate on justice. The manager salaries in Austria are among the highest in Europe. They will not be envious of them from the outset, but there is no reason for regret, especially if I hear the predictions for the next tax reform: There's something done there, there and there. The “poor upper middle class” – whatever that is. So the IV is going to prepare its ad-indicators again, that's clear to us, but I'm telling you, it'd be good to turn to the real problems, and they're at least in the bottom three. We are on our way to the much apostrophic and rightly slandered one-third/two-third society. That will be reality, and you can't close your eyes before it! Take note, at least on the occasion of such a Court of Auditors report! In conclusion: It's not just the manager's salaries, it's just about tax justice! This term will follow you even further. It does not make sense to think about how we can make even more farms there and there and there, because they do not pay any more taxes. It is already that far, and we will still have the opportunity to come back to it today. The most important and urgent thing is to get the international tax dumping under control, otherwise your Lamento will become even more unbelievable about the social state you otherwise vote on than it is anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17124	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17152	I have to think about it now, but I don't think you'd understand it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Madam President, I should like to thank you for your Mr President. [[Abg. Heinzl: That is incomprehensible anyway! That's true!]] But that is not the report, I would say. But I have to be careful now, or we'll both get an order call. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: There would have been a failed finance minister to relieve!]] Mr Kogler has now overlooked, in a certain report, that there has been a tax reform in 2005, which significantly relieves the lower income sectors, which is paying less and less taxes, especially in the lower areas. One feels sure when Kogler is mounting that one does not do anything for the poor, but on the other hand the industrial association and others say that one would have done nothing in the upper area, namely the peak tax rate. This shows that this tax reform was balanced. But back to the subject: Mr Moser, thank you and your staff for this report. I do not believe that there is, of course, an essential part. This is where large companies and public authorities refuse to report on their existing reporting obligations and are not prepared to report on the basis of data protection. I am also very pleased that in this discussion on the better understanding of this very voluminous and comprehensive report, you have given the opportunity, with many figures, to refer to and compare the various types of reference or income through various aspects and comparisons. It would be too extensive to do this now, but I hope it will be directly incorporated in the next report and therefore this report will also be much more interesting to us Members. Mr Kogler, of course it is: If, in the moment where outside every dungeon's entrepreneur or manager announces their income, which is perhaps due to a credit rating or even because the company has been particularly well managed in a special year, a boiler drive starts, then of course it's a problem when you demand it. As in many Nordic countries, it would be necessary to ensure that everyone, like the companies, announces their income tax report somewhere. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I said that too!]] Yes, I also applauded it. Not out of error, but because I – I’ve been thinking about whether I need to change my speech – agree with you. But you may be allowed to do that once you are right – one of the rare cases. In this case, I also believe that this is to be disclosed. I find this report, which does a lot of work, unnecessary when individuals steal away. It would be urgent for the legislator, as requested by the Court of Auditors, to put in place measures within the framework of constitutional possibilities to ensure that this disclosure takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17230	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. Mr President, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17251	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank you very much for the praise that the Court of Auditors has received, and I would like to point out that I am very happy to pass on this praise to Statistics Austria. They know that the comprehensive data material has been collected by Statistics Austria and that the General Part, the Explanatory Notes, has been prepared in conjunction with the Court of Auditors of Statistics Austria. So thank you very much. I would also like to extend this thanks to you. I would also like to mention that, in the context of the Reference Restriction Act, we have two reports to draw up in the context of §-8 reports, which was also discussed today in the context of the debate: It is the one report according to § 8 para. 4, according to which the National Council, the Federal Council and the Landdays report on the average income, including the social and physical benefits of the population as a whole by sector, professional groups and functions. The second report, which was also addressed, is a report to be drawn up every second year, which concerns the remuneration, the high remuneration of persons who are subject to the control of the Court of Auditors and which includes more than fourteen times 80 percent of the monthly starting amount as such,...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17272	May I ask to close the door and not disturb the debate by a debate at the door! Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17291	... because they are necessary for notifications by the audited legal entities. With regard to the report on the incomes of the population as a whole, it is always important, I believe, to highlight some aspects so that there are no false interpretations or misanalysiss in this area. This concerns in particular the comparison of employed and self-employed workers, women and men, as well as private and public servants. But also in the field of pensioners clarifications are required as such. This, for example, has already been mentioned by Mrs Becher today, is the impact of full-time and part-time employment on average income for men and women and the different employment structures in the public sector or in the private sector. With regard to the comparison of income between men and women and between public servants and those in the private sector, it is also important to take into account that workers and employees in particular are much more often not employed all year round or affected by unemployment, and, of course, part-time employment is also extremely different. If the full-time workers, i.e. those employed all year round, are taken out, it can be seen that in the area, for example, women in the public service are 29.3 percent part-time jobs, but the female employees are 41 percent and the female workers are 42.2 percent. If one puts this in relation to male employees or employees, this means that the part-time rate is between 2.6% and 4.3% for all year-round employees. A reference to medium income also gives a differentiated picture. While the women employed in the public sector have the highest average income, it is the men's view that the employees are the highest middle income, and these differences are also confirmed – we have carried out control calculations – if we take the age or training into account. In this context, account should also be taken of the fact that the average age of officials – there is a stop in this field – has been 45 years in 2003 and was therefore much higher than that of employees, where it was 37 years old, or of workers, where it has been 36 years old. Therefore, according to the public service scheme, the higher classifications are, of course, much stronger. It should be noted that women's income in all groups is clearly lower than men's incomes, but that the differences in incomes are much lower in the public sector. Differences in income in this area are, after having a gender-neutral remuneration in the public sector, in order to explain and thus justify that women are less in leadership positions or are also more in part-time employment. One area, which, I believe, is also important to mention, concerns the average gross annual income of pensioners, who resided in Austria, which rose by 2.04 percent in 2002 compared with the previous year, or 2.44 percent in 2003, with the adjustment factor according to the ASVG according to § 108 para. 5 in 2002 was 1.011 percent and 1.005 percent in 2003. This substantial deviation to the adjustment factor and to the actual increases is due to the so-called cohort effect, i.e. that pensioners who have a lower income, de facto die away – and pensioners who go after, i.e. the new pension, have a higher pension than such. As the Court of Auditors is repeatedly asked questions or asked by Members within the Committee and in the framework of telephone calls, and it is considered necessary, I also intend to review the report in pages 5 to 11 and 27 to 50 and to include additional explanations in this area or to make the explanations more meaningful. This relates to the comparability of the incomes of women and men, of employees, public servants and pensioners, and I will try, in conjunction with Statistics Austria, to provide you with the statistical part, namely the statistical and technical Annex, in an electronic way. In this context, it should be mentioned very briefly that the Court of Auditors – I do not wish to do so – according to § 8 para. 1 to 3 was also unable to report on the benefits and pensions of persons who are entitled to them from legal entities subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. I can only expressly point out that you are required to create new rules in this regard, because, in this report and in the consequence, we are not in a position to comply with this report, since, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, we do not call for a name-named disclosure of the references or for surveys to be carried out on the ground in order to arrive at those data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17363	The next speaker was Mr Faul. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17384	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! In short, two thoughts about this income report in two minutes. On the one hand, it is positive that, as you have also noted, there is comparability over the years in income growth and, in the end, comparability with regard to differences in the different professional groups. That's positive. Very, very negative – I would like to add to Mr Becher’s remarks – is that real income growth cannot be measured. They say that this is a political task to achieve. In fact, it's not your job. Mr President, I call you only two or three bowls in the near future. Positive income increases amount to 1 or 2 per cent during this observation period, while property prices have increased by 14.7 per cent, although Colleague Neudeck always argues, the cost of rental apartments by 7.8 per cent, operating costs by over 8 per cent, household energy costs by more than 10 per cent, and ultimately also energy costs/road by 16 per cent. Mr President, this is a misunderstanding, and that is exactly what is in line with this client policy, which our Austrian Küsserkönig has actually caused our Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's ridiculous!]] You don't need to delegate at all, look at the last APA message the ORF has published today: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] The ORF itself says that it is extremely worrying if the Minister of Finance is driving a very hard tax line on the one hand, but on the other hand, we are living up to his jetset life. It is also clearly stated: In the United States, this Minister of Finance should have resigned for a long time. – Too bad he didn’t stay in the USA!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17440	Mr Faul, it is agreed in this House that there should be no additions to the persons acting here, and I also want it to remain. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's called Faul, that's not an addition!]] The next item is Mr Steindl. Mr deputies, you have two minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17493	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Maybe I can also address you a few words in peace. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Faul, you already know that the economy is always the prerequisite for appropriate income and income increases. We all know that the economy has not been the best in recent years – starting with this weakening in the years 2000 and 2001 – and therefore, of course, the more severe competition in all types of incomes is the most important. In particular, it should be made clear that the incomes of the self-employed are not particularly good, but we hope that the measures put forward by the Federal Government will be taken. These measures began to run only in 2004 and 2005, which is why these effects cannot be included in this report at all. I believe that this will allow us to increase earnings and income opportunities by a few percentage points, and it will also ensure a real wage or income increase. Perhaps again to Mr Kogler. They repeatedly advocated a friendly tax policy towards companies. I would already say, Mr Kogler, that we have to estimate what is more important: a location-competitive tax system and related business settlements and jobs for workers – or the opposite. I ask you to think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17536	The next speaker was Mrs Schönpass. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17557	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The present Court of Auditors report proves, among other things, the sad fact that in Austria women earn less than men, in all professional groups and sectors – regardless of whether full-time or part-time. In part The real incomes of women even fall. This is the result of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If you have looked at the Social Report, you also know that women not only deserve less than men, but are much more affected or threatened by poverty. Poverty is female in Austria; this has also not prevented child benefits. The present Court of Auditors report on the incomes of the Austrian population shows that you have failed to shape economic and social policy for the benefit of the people. Women who earn less than men because they do not have access to good education need a reasonable education policy. Women who earn less because they live in remote regions where there is no training or employment need an intelligent regional policy. Women who earn less because they work part-time need a social policy that women do not only perceive as “worship women”. Women who earn less because they have had children need better chances of getting back into work after karenz. Again to remember, which means less merit: For the self-employed, women are about €10 000 less gross annual income than men; Pensioners get around € 10,000 grossly less per year than pensioners. These are the figures of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a women's minister, where all the alarm bells are ringing when the Court of Auditors presents such figures, a women's minister who, as it were, increases her ministerial colleagues to the toes and calls for improvements for women, and which prevents women from being discriminated against in income. We will not take note of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17621	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-115 of the supplements. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the vote, and I am therefore seeking to take the places! I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[18:47:44]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (795, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Mortgage Bank Act, the Pfandbrief Act, the Introduction of the Mortgage Bank and the Pfandbrief Act, the Law on sound bank bonds, the Banking Act and the Financial Market Authority Act (893 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (819, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Banking Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Act and the Insurance Supervision Act (894 d.b.) 9. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Investment Fund Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Stock Exchange Act, the Corporate Pension Pensions Act and the Pensions Act (895 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (854 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Scheidemünzengesetz 1988 is amended (896 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17713	We now come to points 7 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Matznetter was the first to speak. Desirable time: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17740	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We are now more involved in agenda items, which include the issue of amendments to the Banking Act. This is a matter that has led to too long negotiations – less with us for the necessary two-thirds majority than within the government, because there was no agreement on this in several rounds in the Council of Ministers. Just once, what it was about: The Supreme Court ruled in a decision relating to the insolvency of the BHI bank in Graz: If the auditor is indebted in the proper review in the years preceding the bankruptcy, the Republic of Austria shall make an official liability for that examiner within the framework of its official liability. In other words, in this case, the Republic has to pay compensation for damage beyond the security of deposit. If you want to change this jurisdiction, that is something that is based on the provisions of Article 23 paragraph. 1 B-VG requires a two-thirds majority. This is also known by the Federal Government, for it itself has in its explanatory remarks on its own government proposal on Article 2 para. 5 expressly stated: ‘Since the scheme provides for a special provision on the type of aid. Paragraph 23 1 B-VG in its interpretation by case law, it must be in the constitutional rank.’ We talked about this in several rounds. We have made it clear from the outset that the SPÖ is naturally ready to find a solution in this area. But one thing was clear: Only to worsen the situation for depositors, without making an improvement in supervision, in the amount of maximum insurance and in other areas, means to make depositors only worse by this law. And we have said from the beginning and throughout, we can talk about many points, but what we can't talk about is that depositors are just getting worse. What happened? – After not even getting beyond the pre-debate in endless Councils of Ministers, one has resorted to a minimal change that only brings this bad situation. And because one was then exhausted and the Minister of Finance was more busy in all parts of the world, instead of taking care of his duties in the field of banking law, one brought it to Parliament and told us in committee: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: The envy is a burdener!]] We will speak until the decision is taken in plenary. Although I have seen the Minister of Finance in various newspapers up to the “image newspaper” in other things, he has not found it worth talking about. Summa summarum: This government is in a state in which the banking law itself is no longer valuable enough to deal seriously with it. They risk an unconstitutional provision – and I say immediately that we may have the issue of the validity of this provision checked at the Constitutional Court. This is more serious than many, which comes from the mouth of Mr BZÖ's head of state from Carinthia. But one thing I would like to say at this point: We have a number of materials where a two-thirds majority is needed. We should take these talks seriously and also conduct negotiations. Only, to do so, according to the motto: I don’t have anyone, I try it with a simple law – it’s supposed to lift it from the Constitutional Court!, and next time to have friendly discussions with us again, quite honestly, that’s not the style with which you approach these questions. We didn't injunctify anything outside the banking law. We only negotiated in the interests of depositors. They weren't ready to move a centimeter. In this sense, you decide simply by law, but be aware: They infringe the provisions of the Federal Constitution. It's an unconstitutional law. We will not agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17777	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17798	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Now, after Mr Matznetter's speech, I would like to put the constructive mood in the financial committee a little further into the right light. We now have on the agenda four financial laws, two of which we have agreed together without problems. One concerns the question of attracting and increasing the credit quality of our proven instrument of the Austrian Pfandbrief. And we had no difficulty at all in the second law, in the divorce law; this is about adapting to the EU directive. We have also tried very hard in the Banking Act, I really want to say that. What Mr Matznetter said at the outset is right. First of all, we meant that it would be politically wise and legally better to have a constitutional provision. Mr Matznetter! They won't be able to argue that we've been trying. There have been several discussions with the State Secretary on your part, there have been discussions at parliamentary level. But one thing I also have to say: For us, this delicate topic is not an exchange object to change political change here. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr President, I do not now use the words I have heard that have spoken: We don't get papered all the time! – These are not my words, but these words have also fallen. We have really tried, and when we saw that the latte is constantly getting higher and more and more coins are being changed, we have said that we have to consider whether it is perhaps also with a simple legal regime. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] And we have – what are we supposed to do other than the government party? – asked the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery. This one gave us an expertise and said: If you do so and so, it's just legal! As a result, the balance was: Should we always have to pay political little money as we do, or should we make a simple legal rule on the suggestion of the Constitutional Service? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] That was the truth about the process. Mr Matznetter, you will confirm that Hannes Bauer, too, can only confirm that we in the Financial Committee have a very constructive climate, which is characterised by the fact that we have common solutions. If it doesn't work and the lawyers say it's just legal, then I'm asking for understanding, but then we don't want to pay a big political purchase price for it. I have to say that honestly and openly. That was the subject. Mr Matznetter, we are still in good contact, we had another conversation on another matter today. I have every interest as the chairman of the Financial Committee that we come to joint constructive solutions. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: This is a question of the suit!]] I will continue to try to do so in the future, but I am not willing to change political change.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17866	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17887	Madam President. In less than 4 minutes' time, the question of the supervisors concerned with these relevant laws, which have already been silently related to colleague Matznetter and colleague: The basic starting position is obvious, at least for the Social Democratic Group, for investor protection. That's very honorable. We might not always go that far because, in my opinion, not everyone in principle is always in need of protection, who comes across any advertising that promises 27 per cent interest rates et cetera. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] I can see that. On the other hand, it is also necessary to recognise that there is a fundamental asymmetry in such a market, between the consumer and the bank customer, and the banks, which are then – and now the problem comes into play – to be controlled by the relevant supervisory authorities. It is quite classic to assume that customers, even if they are a semi-economically trained person, have an information disadvantage, which is why all these controls already have a meaning, in addition, of course, to see whether the whole of the rules of laying and all the rules that are quite meaningful are actually complied with. Now I see that you do not have to protect anyone who comes in on every nonsense, but the question is – and for me it has not been clearly answered until the end and here and now, and that is why we are still opposed in these points –: Due to this change, is there also a consumer or customer who is half-economic, reasonablely calculated and able to respond to anything, or is it not worse? – This question must be admissible. For me, this has not been finally answered. After all: Financial market supervision points out that this may be a common way – what else should it say? – is that a gap can arise in the transition phase. By the way, the FMA assumes – listen, the personnel savers! – that she will then need more staff. However, this question does not seem to be solved. That's just so lapidar. That alone is enough for me to continue to spread and deepen my scepticism. Last but not least – this is not finally answered for me: It looks like the state is moving away more clearly from its control duty, with a system that could give rise to the fact that, in order to avoid later arrests, it does not even carry out an intensive check from the outset, because this process could then trigger the arrest case more rarely. I am not sure if I have installed a mental error in the committee, at least this has not been contradicted at first. I do not hope that such incentive effects are still hidden. If that is not the case, I should like to ask the Secretary of State, who always loves to come to our aid in such a way, to inform us. At least in that point, we want to avoid the worst.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17932	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17954	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take two out of these four items on the agenda. One is the item on the agenda regarding the revision of the mortgage bank and deposit note law, which aims at a clear appreciation and improvement of the Pfandbriefs and will implement them as well. The Pfandbriefs on the Austrian and international capital markets suffer very much from the fact that they are no longer competitive enough due to the interest they drop. So that means a clear improvement and upgrading of the Pfandbriefs. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second point concerns the Banking Act, on which we have an absolutely positive attitude, because we assume that the improvement is due to this Novelisation leads to a clearer regulation of control competences, in particular the safeguard measures of savings deposits, and that all of this also contributes to the calming of savers in Austria. We also have a very clear attitude to the state commissioners. We are pursuing the clear objective of ensuring that banks are monitored and that they are more secure in the interests of savers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17993	As the next speaker, Mr Bauer, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18014	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As far as banking supervision is concerned, discussions have shown that there has been a high willingness to agree. The fact that “small” banking is very important to us is certainly clear, but that has not been sufficiently taken into account. What I would like to add is that the willingness to regulate was not, as has been claimed, linked to ‘opportunity’. I would like to make that clear. Although certain paragraphs were formulated slightly differently, that was a purely content matter, but not a counter-business; I would say so. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You're not a freshman!]] In the Mortgage Bank and Pfandbrief Act, to which we will also agree, we actually see an improvement in many areas. The measure of securing cover is undoubtedly of a certain value, it is important to be able to secure over the nominal value coverage. I also think that this is important in the sense of the rating agencies, because it gives better international competitiveness. I also consider the extension of cover protection to be in principle correct, and also the related question of expanding my own cover stock to be interesting in the sense of mortgage and mortgage business. The extension of the replacement cover is particularly important with regard to its own assessment, so we will agree to this part – I cannot do so in detail. We have less understanding of the criminal provisions that have been changed or converted, from criminal law to administrative law, and therefore we have problems. That is why we cannot give our approval here either. All in all, it is certainly a law that is a valuable contribution to the globalisation of capital markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18049	The next speaker was Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18070	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's like Hannes Bauer said: This law is a valuable contribution to globalisation in capital markets. There is nothing to add to this, and it is also to thank him for this statement. I wonder, though, that when you do a real analysis, you don't go along with the way. That's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. For a flourishing host This is a matter for the Commission and the Council. In addition to tax and research quotas, operating permits, flexible working hours, a flourishing stock exchange – as can be seen from Austria – banks that have a risk-bearing capacity that can exist on international capital markets, which also have equal opportunities on globalised markets, which are therefore competitive. Even in front of the banks, the international financial world does not stop. We must therefore also face up to the conditions of competition in this area, and we must ensure equal opportunities. And this is precisely ensured by some of these points. Yes, it is true, as Mr Matzenetter said, that it has been negotiated for a long time, and there will be a significant improvement in many areas. In particular, I give the right to Mr Kogler, who has pointed out that it is not a matter of making imaginative results, promises and interest promises, but then when it comes to difficulties, everyone should pay. In this context, a small advertising link: Raiffeisen Austria guarantees up to 100 percent of the deposits, ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps it would be imaginable once, without making a second promotion, to point out to each credit institution who guarantees how much so that the depositor can see how it looks like in the case of cases! I wanted to say that clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a functioning banking system, we have good banking supervision, and this law contributes to the fact that these instruments will continue to make a significant contribution to the security of depositors, credit management and the economy in general in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18113	Mr Gradwelt has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18134	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, I hope that this advertising will bring in a little bit, but so that it is not too one-sided, I would like to make the best of a saying that occurred during your speech. [[Abg. Neugebauer: What did he advertise for?]] Although this one does not necessarily have something to do with the bank, it is: “The farmer has the work and raiffeisen the profit.” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: You don't know yourself like that!]] – Mr Grillitsch always claims the opposite of what you said now. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: The farmers in Austria are not able to...!]] We make this up in the context of a private vote, dear colleague Auer! I also give you the right to say that these legal measures are quite an improvement in a wide range of areas. But precisely in the areas raised by Mr Matzenetter, there is simply no courage to take the last step. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Of you!]] - No, of you! We could have left this as a matter of two-thirds majority, then we would have an even better form today, as was discussed in the Financial Committee. I always find the discussions in the Financial Committee very exciting because they are being held very openly, and therefore very important. But one thing bothers me a little bit about the financial committee: Mr State Secretary, I very much regret that the Minister of Finance is not here without asking where he is now. In the Committee, I asked him to provide me with information on a table from the financial sector, namely on the 2007 Agenda. He gave me an answer, on demand we found that it was not the answer to my question. He then told me that he could not now ad hocly say that he had to ask himself, and he would tell me that. The meeting of the Financial Committee has been a few days ago, and I have still not received a communication. I would ask, Mr State Secretary, perhaps you will be able to pass on this information to us from the section, because the programme period 2007 to 2013 is also not insignificant for Austria. We will have to talk a few more times about financing at European level. It would therefore be interesting for us to know what is meant by “sustainable management” and “protection of natural resources”, for that is the question that the Minister of Finance could not answer. After I have a sustainability concept of the Federal Government, it would be interesting to know what it means and what we have to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18226	The next item is the report by Mr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18247	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to refer to the Banking Act now, but to the Customs Enforcement Act, which in itself is only item 11 of the agenda. But I would ask you to note this for the next item on the agenda, because we are very important to note what changes have threatened us in this area and what improvements have actually been made. The problem was that we are now expecting the changeover on an electronic basis, ezoll.at. This is carried out on a voluntary basis for freight forwarders and individual applications. There is actually no problem with it, starting with 1. It is expected to be possible by the end of December. In the field of collectibles – these are those companies that are more export-related – there are some problems after a survey among the companies, which is the development of software, but also the training of employees. It would have created additional costs, especially because we in Austria had made an advance, so to speak, without having the international accreditation. However, since the single paper or the single form is to be used for the settlement and international equation is necessary, it has now become apparent that at the earliest from 1. It is expected that this resolution will take place in January 2006. This will allow for appropriate preparation times and also for an international similarity. As for the practical implementation, there have been quite a few adjustments to the status quo that can be lived. That means: On the one hand, it becomes more cost-effective, on the other hand practical. That is why, from the point of view of the economy, a satisfactory compromise has been reached.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18289	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18311	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the Social Democrats welcome the improvements to the Pfandbrief. However, we have – and this has already been said by two previous speakers of my group – concerns about investor protection, which we believe is inadequate and could be better. Therefore, for general prevention reasons, it is rejected to agree here. We will request a separate vote on this item on the agenda. A two-thirds majority will not be possible in that case. We will see how this vote will ultimately be reviewed by the Supreme Court in its effect and taken into account or not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18338	Mr Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18359	Mr President. High house! Again to the BWG, on the new post of office: I believe that this is a very important innovation, because the activities of financial market supervision are clearly regulated in terms of official liability, on which conditions there is official liability, in particular with regard to the preparations for Basel II and risk management. We have dealt with the bank auditors precisely whether practically a simple legal arrangement is possible. This has been confirmed by the Constitutional Service, and there is also a majority in the legal system. We also agreed with the Ministry of Justice. The basic legislation requires a partial re-regulation of the activities of the bank auditors and other auditors appointed by the banks. It is therefore necessary to avoid that an organ quality can be allocated to them, but I can assure you that these regulations will in no way make the quality of supervision worse – and that is the most important thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18390	As the next speaker, the honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18411	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen who are present! – Yes, but it’s never about the many, but about the right ones, that’s what it’s called, and so I feel in good society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I want to start with something positive: We have now set up a good mortgage bank law in two calls, and this shows the insistence of the legislator – sometimes also towards the government. We have now taken the second step to ensure that, for mortgage banks, competitiveness is also under the framework of the future, if public liability is Years 2007 is lost, due to a corresponding increase in attractiveness by rating for the Pfandbriefs is manufactured and secured. This is, I believe, a very important success, since this group of banks plays a significant role in the economy. In this context, I regret that we have not succeeded in deciding jointly with the BWG. I would like to point out that we have negotiated the BWG for a year and a half, so it cannot be said that "Speed kills" has been used. There is also no deterioration in the investor's position, as I could not follow Mr Matznetter. I suppose that was one of his few skiina arguments that he could find in order to somehow justify the disapproval. We could only have improved the investor's position together, but this has not enabled us to do so, and I assume the Greens will not allow it. The debate on self retention was at least extremely volatile to express it in the banking sector, by Matznetter and the SPÖ. My colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has said that the latte has been raised ever higher. I would say that in addition, Mr Matznetter and Mr Kogler have repeatedly laid it on other installations. And then it is not quite easy to believe that you really wanted to come to a common result. Nevertheless: We've done it now, too, just by law. This is a clean system which will continue to provide a good basis for financial market supervision. – I’ll finish and I’ll be able to work with colleagues Don't leave it all alone now: Not only Raiffeisen guarantee the investor 100% security, also the savings banks.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18465	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18487	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! A bit strange is already going on at this item on the agenda: My colleague, Mr Mitterlehner, prefers a point for certain reasons, I do not know why. Let's do it in the future so that we don't create any more agendas, and everyone talks what they want, and then we go! That would be a possibility, would it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – Look, how many of you have gone, dear colleague Großruck! Furthermore, we have heard advertising from the larger banks in Austria, and for 100 percent they guarantee us the deposits. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Only from Raiffeisen!]] It's clear to me, but I'm still not in favour of the fact that you can give up internal revisions at small banks – you guarantee anyway. But who guarantees us that something doesn't happen through the less control? – I would like to take this into account, ladies and gentlemen Sparkasse and Raiffeisenkas. It also states that the reporting to the National Bank may be delayed for three months if the auditor finds that, if the audited institution's stock or the fulfilment of its obligations is at risk, this deficiency can be addressed in the three months. If a credit institution is under threat and there is also the risk that the commitments cannot be met, I wonder what is small, ladies and gentlemen! I think you're taking the protection of customers at the banks a little too easy. The statement that you guarantee 100 percent is too little for us Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18529	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18551	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Control is a very essential matter in the economic sector and in the financial sector in particular, and it is certainly not the quantity of control that is crucial, but the efficiency of control. Still so many tests do not help if it is not recognized in time that it is going in the wrong direction, which we have experienced in the Burgenland, for example, at the Bank Burgenland. Five tests didn't help, but there were huge problems. [[Abg. Gradwell: What about the passage that now stands inside?]] The crucial factor in all these areas is the human factor, Mr. Cot. You know that as well as we all do. And ultimately, this new regulation will also be the human factor. I admit that it will not be easy to determine when there are problems and when the bank auditor will have to work for financial market supervision and report. I would also like to say to Mr Gaßner that this is in no way a reduction or a deterioration in control, but it is only a clearer differentiation, from when the auditor must report on financial market supervision and be active in financial market supervision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] – That is exactly what it is, colleague. In this sense, I believe that in this case this regulation is the best possible. I ask you to give your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18591	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law in 893 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has made a request for a separate vote by Mr Dr Matznetter. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall be voting separately on Article 1(s) 28 to 31 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – It is accepted by the majority and thus. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their agreement to the draft law at third reading to give a sign on this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the Banking Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Act and the Insurance Supervision Act, including the title and receipt in 894 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Where is the third reading coming from? I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Investment Fund Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Stock Exchange Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 895 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – It is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Scheidemünzen Act, together with the title and receipt in 854 of the Supplements. I am looking for an appropriate sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:25:00]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (848, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the EC State Aid Act, the EU Source Tax Act, the Customs Act implementing the Customs Act, the Financial Balance Act 2005 and the Art Funding Contribution Act 1981 (897 d.a.) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (808 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement, in the form of an exchange of letters, on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, for Aruba (898 d.a.) 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (809 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement - in the form of an exchange of letters - on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands for the Netherlands Antilles (899 d.b.) 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (811, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Guernsey (900 d.a.) 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (812, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Jersey (901 d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (813, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Isle of Man (902 d.a.) 17. Point Government template: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Anguilla on the taxation of interest income (885 d.a.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice) 18. Point Government template: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the British Virgin Islands (888 d.b.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice) 19. Point Government template: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income between the Republic of Austria and the Cayman Islands (886 d.b.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice) 20. Point Government template: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income between the Republic of Austria and the overseas territory of the United Kingdom of Montserrat (887 d.b.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice) 21. Point Government template: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income between the Republic of Austria and the Turks and Caicos Islands (889 d.b.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18809	We now come to points 11 to 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18836	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now we've actually reached point 11, we've got a taste on it before. In principle, the SPÖ advocates greater tax justice and supports all EU-wide cooperation in the field of taxation and customs. This is once the basic prerequisite. Here we have already heard that there are a lot of laws to disposition. We also support the income tax amendment because it includes the removal of multiple depreciations, because it includes the exclusion of double benefits and because it takes into account the inclusion of intergovernmental or international agreements of tax-free income in the calculation of the negative tax. However, we are opposed to the increasing repairs of the 2005 Financial Balance Act, as is the case here again, where some mistakes have happened again. On the other hand, however, we support agreements, as the President has just read, between Austria and the former colonies of Great Britain and Holland on the taxation of interest income, because they allow for the same conditions of competition for banks and financial services. That is an important principle. But in this context I would like to draw attention to one point. Minister of Finance Grasser, who is not present today at this important event, prevented Austria from participating fully in the new EU-wide competition of the fair and transparent interest-rate taxation system. He prevented that! What is the consequence? – The consequence is that the capital income tax for non-Austrian EU citizens will be increased to 35 percent in steps from 2011. What does this mean for Austria? – In view of the basic principle of non-discrimination of EU foreigners, Austria must also increase the KEST to this rate from 2011 onwards. [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: No!]] This is actually another attack by Minister of Finance Grasser – he will then no longer bear government responsibility – on the savings books of the Austrians. With this, Grasser, who is obviously already at photo shootings in the meantime, or who uses the rest of the day to search for work, bears the full responsibility for this new tax. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18873	The next speaker is Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18894	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In itself, four minutes of speaking time have been given to me. I think, even in view of the statements made by my previous speaker, that we can deal with this in a shorter period of time. The matter is a historical one. That is the day when we adopted the European Constitution. Now we are adopting some agreements, ten in the number – the President has just referred to them very impressively – by which we regulate interest income and the taxation of interest income between these countries and Austria. In addition, there is a large number of other adjustments to the Income Tax Act, the EC State Aid Act, the EU Source Tax Act, but also the Customs Enforcement Act. I think that, given the fact that eGovernment is currently in the hands of all, we should take out the customs law and show that modernisation and, fortunately, an approval will also occur in this area. After studying this file, it can be seen that the cost-effective house view, as it has been done so far, is no longer due to the use of computer science and thus a savings effect is achieved. I think that's nice and you should take it out. You don't always have to pick out a little negative things like Mr Moser does, but you could address the positive thing I tried to do. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: This has been a good success!]] There is therefore no reason not to agree here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18932	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18953	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take one out of these eleven agenda items, namely the EU interest rate directive, the source tax, which is essentially based on the fact that those interest rates that foreign investors in Austria receive from the banks are recorded accordingly. This information and reporting obligation, agreed with a number of countries, is very important for the collection of interest taxation. I just want to make one comment: The Austrian financial market, but also the international financial market, is very innovative and very imaginative. So it's not going to be. In order not to allow a capital flight from Europe to be allowed, it will be necessary, and not to allow us to make those agreements that we are adopting today, for example with Hong Kong or Japan and with other financially strong countries all over the world, because the money is also a means of globalisation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18985	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19007	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to return briefly to Mr Mitterlehner's speech, which, under Agenda items 7 to 10, which were negotiated under one, explicitly pointed out that he – he did this correctly – came up with points 11 to 21. Regardless of the fact that this is a big block, it has remained completely unanswered! His honorable behavior that he announces, and the President's failure to intervene are two different things! I can now attribute this effect with a prejudicial character. Then we would not have this problem so often and would not need each other to go on the nerves with calls to things. This may then lead to the debate. - Anyway. On this matter: The question of the international Agreements in the case of tax agreements are not limited to this area. This is a good, right step in relation to what we still have to solve or at least solve. I'm not sure if everyone thinks so. The other areas are much larger. I can use the remaining minute to recall a few important keywords in the National Council's plenary session. The problem of international tax dumping in all types of profit taxes and partly asset taxes is still underestimated. Individuals must also assume that they are hiding behind this parade because it corresponds to their ideology, so to speak, governments should also compete like companies. Tax competition, as it would then be so beautiful, could be a good thing. – The comparison is completely absurd! Governments are, of course, in a kind of prison démama vis-à-vis the international large corporations. As long as, on some issues, the best global, in others, the European Union is, of course, sufficient, to establish binding minimum limits, both in terms of tax bases, as regards tax rates, as well as many other provisions, profit taxes on capital simply thin off. It'll be like that. On the other hand, you can at least act and make other proposals. I sometimes miss this for individuals who always vote in favour of this song. These are the problems of the future, including at the level of the European Union. Unfortunately, the Constitution is not too much on this point – because we have rejoiced so much today. We actually needed majority principles and rights of determination, especially in terms of the taxation of profits, of assets, of capital. With regard to sales taxes, it is already quite clear that you need this because the need has been great earlier. But now the need is great there! This story that one government becomes extortionable after another and individual governments always play along is a problem. But something can be done about it! You don't just have to talk about the subject! That is what we should do, and we should sink these beautiful words from the tax competition, which we might still be able to win there once and for all. It is important to look at the danger of ordinal tax dumping and the possible negative consequences for the European economic and social model that we know and have praised today. Otherwise, all of this remains unbelievable.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19058	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19079	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler's suggestion actually has something for himself. If one speaks of an economic union, of a monetary union, of a security union, then one may also be able to speak of a tax union in order to perhaps have much better framework conditions, because the tax dumping is feasible in many areas. I would like to make another addition to the previous points. Mr Bauer! On the basis of the intervening call, which was relatively violent, and the accusation that we would not or would not protect small investors, as Mr Gaßner said, I wonder: If it's been so good so far, why was there BHI? Then why was there Rieger Bank? Then why were there any problems with Bank Burgenland? Why, then, was there the “consumer” bankruptcy where your supervisory boards, including the economic trustees inside, were sitting? Ladies and gentlemen! You could ask a few questions. I would, however, like to leave it there. You can give yourself the answers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in this number of points that we are now dealing with, competitiveness is an important point. With regard to the taxation of interest income, the important points have been raised by the colleagues. It is positive that there is a cost reduction in the Customs Enforcement Act. There is too little reference to this. Mr Bucher rightly stated that we still have certain agreements to conclude with many countries in the world in order to ensure equal opportunities. It is, I think, important to note that the Income Tax Act prevents cross-border and later return of economic goods to multiple degrees. I would like to have it used, ladies and gentlemen. We need a number of points which are important in terms of competitiveness. For international economic competition does not ask where to create how to produce, but under what conditions one can stand on the market. And we help something to exist on this international market.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19126	The next speaker is Mr Ledolter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19149	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, and especially in the light of today's decisions, one should not only wonder why these agreements, these EU adjustments, these international treaties are necessary, why we need to think about how far source tax agreements are necessary, how far it is good and right to act in international competition with appropriate regulations, but we should actually ask ourselves why relatively much foreign capital is being invested in Austria, why many people make our country the target of their assets. If I refer to Mr Kogler's comments, I would like to say that I do not think that Austria needs to be afraid of international competition in any way. On the contrary! With Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and this government, we are well equipped for this international competition. I just think that the tax rate in our country is going from 44.8 percent towards 40.6 percent at the beginning of next year, that exports have increased by 50 percent, that we are in tourism almost world champions with around 18 billion € in sales in 2003 – a growth of 4.2 percent, which is the sixfold of what is the remaining economic growth – and a per capita income of 1 500 € from international travel. On arrivals, we take fifth place in Europe and seventh in the world. The savings in Austria have increased by 60 billion in the last five years. Ladies and gentlemen! Facts and parameters that make it very necessary to decide and to carry out these agreements, which we will also be happy to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19179	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Income Tax Act, the EC State Aid Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 897 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has made a request for a separate vote by Mr Dr Matznetter. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Articles 5 and 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This was adopted by a majority of the majority at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements, in the form of an exchange of letters, on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, to be approved by Aruba in 808 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreement, in the form of an exchange of letters, on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, to be approved by the Netherlands Antilles in 809 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Agreement, in the form of an exchange of letters, on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Guernsey in 811 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Agreement, in the form of an exchange of letters, on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Jersey in 812 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement - in the form of an exchange of letters - on the taxation of interest income and the provisional application of this Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Isle of Man in 813 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We also reach the vote, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Anguilla on the taxation of interest income in 885 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the British Virgin Islands in 888 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We now proceed to the vote, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income between the Republic of Austria and the Cayman Islands in 886 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We also reach the vote, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement, in the form of an exchange of letters, on the taxation of interest income between the Republic of Austria and the overseas territory of the United Kingdom of Montserrat in 887 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We also reach the vote, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement – in the form of an exchange of letters – on the taxation of interest income between the Republic of Austria and the Turks and Caicos Islands in 889 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. [[19:46:41]] 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (810, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Cambodia on the promotion and protection of investment (903 d.b.) 23. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (855 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Performance of a Contribution to the Asian Development Fund (ADF-IX) and Technical Assistance Special Fund of the Asian Development Bank (904 d.b.) 24. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 522/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Detlev Neudeck, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1996 tobacco monopoly law (905 d.b.) 25. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 527/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues in a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988 (906 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19394	We now come to points 22 to 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first speaker was Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19418	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, under these agenda items, we are adopting two legislative projects which are of real importance to the target groups concerned. One is the clear statement that local drinks are tax-free in the future. This is a legal clarity for hundreds of thousands of workers in this country and something that serves those people who may do a little more in the service sector than they actually need to do, and get drink money for it. I mean, we can be glad that we adopt this law unanimously today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second law is also of great importance for a target group, namely for tobacco traficiants, which are currently in a very difficult situation. A number of negative trends are currently meeting. The increasing smuggling from the East, Eastern Europe and China. Secondly, we have increased tobacco tax in the course of the financial balance on the country's desire, and thirdly, we have the famous anti-smoker campaigns. All these influences are negative and result in the first quarter of the Trafiken having a 20 percent and more turnover reduction. It is therefore urgently necessary to increase the minimum level of trade today, which is also a requirement of the Trafikants. I would also like to say very clearly what is often overlooked: The trafiks have a multiple function! We have considered the labour market policy of 3,000 specialised businesses, which represent the basis of living for 10,000 people and their families. The Trafiken also have a regional policy function. We have a lot of close-up suppliers today who could not survive without additional income from the traffic. We have 5 000 so-called tobacco sales outlets to local suppliers. Thirdly, the Trafiques have a social policy function, ladies and gentlemen. 42 percent of all tobacco shops are run by disabled persons. The trafiks have a health policy function fourth. Not every business must sell tobacco, and with the increase in the trade range, we want to avoid cigarettes coming to the market very cheap for reasons of youth protection and health policy. Cheap cigarettes are not in the interests of youth protection or health policy! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I say this to the conclusion that this can only be a first step for the trams. Further steps must follow. In particular, in the sense of our resolution, we must take energetic measures against cigarette smuggling, in particular to achieve coordination of border arms, the Federal Criminal Office and customs administration, and, secondly, we must give more room for action in the future in the field of by-products in order to ensure that they are fair and fair. There is a chance to be a basis of existence for tens of thousands of families in this country as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19475	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19497	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I give my colleague boldly perfect right, especially as far as the Traficans are concerned. Today, Vienna has taken a step. At the SPÖ's request today, the financial committee of the Vienna municipal council decided that the commissions for the distribution of parking tickets would be dramatically increased, I would say. This is a volume of around €500 000, which is being moved here per year in favour of the Trafikanten. I also think that this is a very essential professional group, often also struggling with disabilities. There is no doubt that security is necessary. Of course, we will be happy to agree to the amendment of the tobacco monopoly law, which is no question at all, and other accompanying measures will certainly follow. For drinking-money taxation. Here too, we will agree, although I would like to stress that not all issues have been resolved to the full in detail, questions concerning all professional groups, and there may still be a certain constitutional debate. This is, of course, very welcome for the tourism and leisure industry in particular, but that is not a question at all. If one is brief about the history of this drinking-money tax, this will provide the opportunity to remove some of the government's planlessness, in particular the Ministry of Finance. It is clear, of course, that voluntary drinking money should have been charged to income tax beyond the limit, and it is also clear that the tendency to charge drinking money more and more over credit cards gives a better possibility of checking than in cash drinks. But what was the first approach of the Ministry of Finance, in particular the Minister of Finance? At the time, he thought it was necessary, for reasons of justice, to tax all drinks without distinction! For reasons of justice! Now it is known that the remuneration in the tourism industry does not necessarily promise great wealth, but obviously the execution of tax-honority was a particular concern of the Minister of Finance, especially among the people in low incomes. There was also a call through the Boulevard press, and then State Secretary Finz came to the glorious idea of introducing a package model. This tax, this package, should also have a double-digit million-height effect. It is only a small detail on the edge: that in the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll and Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is literally called “unthinkable. ” After this "unthinkability" would have occurred to the Minister of Finance, he then meant, in a remarkable 180 degree turnaround, that it was necessary, for reasons of justice, that drinking money should not be taxed at all. – Half a pirouette, which is very remarkable, especially since it has moved for several months. The fact is that only the common appearance of workers' representatives and employers' representatives in the tourism industry led to this rethinking it has. At this point, I can quote the portal of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, as it were, unwarranted from my mouth. There it is to be read that the Minister of Finance stressed in the discussions that he would not have – I quote – expected such a “opportunity” of the social partners. That is why rethinking has been used. I think that in the future, especially in the tourism and leisure sectors, this joint action of the social partners is called for in order to create more counter-wind here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19552	Mr Bucher, the next speaker, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19573	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a brief look at the history of my predecessor. It was never remembered that we agreed to a package, but from the start we wanted to minimise the administrative costs, the recovery costs of drinking money taxation. It was the aim of the two coalition parties from the beginning that we call into question the taxation of drinking money that we call into question the expediency and reasonableness. It is a great step and also a great pleasure to have this drinking tax in history, with the approval of all four parties today. I think that this is a memorable step so that, in the future, the services located in the smaller and medium-sized incomes sector in particular will be exempt from the taxation of drinking money. This has always been an objective of the liberal parliamentary club, always wanted and right from our side.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19604	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19625	Mr President. If you look at the TOPs 22 to 25 and ask why they have to be negotiated under one, you have to conclude that it is obvious that the Communists in Cambodia are getting too little drinking money and that the whole problem is best addressed by the Asian Development Bank with a special fund. I don't always know why something is being negotiated under one, otherwise not. Maybe someone can meditate on it once. At any rate, it cannot have been the problem I have described, namely the problem of traffic jams and the drinking money problem in Cambodia. But for the sake of the matter. Tag Trafikanten. – This is quite serious, I agree with the previous speaker boldly, there are various social, if you want to, even economic goals, why all this should be done so. I would just like to draw your attention to one point: In this area, state intervention is being operated on, which is quite violent. Half-territorial protection is almost necessary. Who gets a trafic assigned? What about the spas? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] All right, yes, that's what I'm saying, but you always have to realize that it obviously depends on the goal, how much state intervention or regulatory or I don't know what bad words you have for something else, then it's just necessary are. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that other goals may also be the case if you think that this is happening or not. Or is Turbo Communism now broken out in the traficient world? That is the question at this point. I think that is a reasonable thing, that is why we agree. But your own logic would interest me, because it remains in secret, except for the intention that you want good, I do not want to agree with you. Let us conclude by on the question of the taxation of drinking money. In this context, a Pirouette demonstration has been mentioned. I say that was a triple pirouette. As mentioned by a previous speaker, the Ministry of Finance has long since claimed that, in the sense of justice, it is essential to intervene that not only those who are allied via credit cards, but everyone should pay the drinking tax at all. After this is a little impractical, you've invented a package. The inventor's sitting here. [[towards Secretary of State Dr. Finz]] This has resulted in the following process – but we have often survived: Minister of Finance Ritterspiele. The “evil knight” – Finz – has to ride out and tax the drinking money so that sometime, when the “Kronen Zeitung” is still opportunistic, Finance Minister Grasser can perform overnight and say the opposite of what he has claimed for months. And all of a sudden, it's justifiable that the drinks are no longer taxed. We should be glad, we have always said that, and can be proved. You may want to explain your pirouette art here – perhaps no one else is interested in it because the good is to be sought – but that is not credible, as most of it is to this Minister of Finance. In a situation – even if you don't want to hear it again – in which managers deserve more and more incomes are becoming more and more, to avoid taxation and still spend a lot of energy on considering how to execute this drinking tax, which has actually existed, on the little waiter, that's absurd. For this the house has energies, but when it comes to the collection of tax debts from large companies, it is missing. After all, there are now approaches to the fight against fraud. But I don't want to make this trend change too big. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a predicament which is exactly in line with the bathing pants principle in the Ministry of Finance, which has now clearly broken out. That's more serious than it might sound.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19695	The next speaker was Mr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19717	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, you have tried to raise questions, questions which I am somewhat surprised about, because if you have been dealing half way through the matter, it should be said that Austria has been pursuing the model of the social market economy not only recently, but for some decades now. This means that the market is at the heart of the economic situation, but nevertheless social support is taking place, and it is also in the market that there is also an intervention. Market regulation may take place in order to enforce necessary social measures. And this is part of the disability policy. We know very well that Trafiken is one of the very few areas where disabled people can be given an opportunity to work independently. And that has been a well thought out system since 1945 and, I say, well-tested system. I'm surprised you're questioning this now. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I am pleased, on the other hand, that everyone is going along with the drinking money question, and I am also pleased that this has shown exactly the opposite of what you wanted to say here, namely that the Ministry of Finance has responded quickly, within 24 hours of the public discussion, and has made it clear what it is supposed to be. And that is also true, that is not the most important question, not with God, but that is a question that affects people, which is why it is also regulated. And I think that was in the interests of those concerned, and at the same time it was fast and efficient. Finally, one more thing: Every tax question is still being asked by the social democratic side: Should we not do more for the internal market and the internal market? Is it not wrong that the companies have been supported? – I would just like to say the following: We generate more than 50 percent through the external economic component. And in the external economic component, it does not help us at all if we support internal demand. Therefore, the basic approach of the Ministry of Finance, half of the tax reform for domestic demand and the second half for the foreign economy, namely to invest in the location question, is absolutely correct. As long as you do not realize this, just show that you are not yet able to make the right economic policy for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19765	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19786	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Now I'm not going to go down on this idea. The question remains whether 50 percent will be enough for the internal economy so that we can get the 297 000 unemployed into employment. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For many years, so-called investment protection agreements with other countries have been decided by the Austrian Parliament, today with Cambodia. And for many years, we have been encouraging the Social Democrats to revise this model protection agreement, namely that not only investment protection is guaranteed, but that minimum standards for workers are also introduced. For a year now, the committees have been really discussing this. And it has also been promised to us by the Ministry of Finance on the occasion of the parliamentary survey on these model protection agreements that a so-called new model protection agreement will be presented. It was promised to us by Secretary-General Finz at the last meeting of the Financial Committee, which was held on 28 March. April – the Ministry of Finance will work on it quickly and it will come soon. It has not yet come, Mr State Secretary. I would ask you to extend to the Minister for Finance: If the parliamentarians of the EU-25 agree to a working time directive, In Austria, it will probably be possible, after years or at least one year of intensive discussion, to reach the promised new model protection agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19823	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19844	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Personally, I am very happy that we have the four-party proposal today and that in future the drinking money will no longer be subject to wage or income tax. Austria is well known as a tourist country, and as such we are of course also living by the motivation and kindness of our more than 180 000 employees in around 60,000 restaurants. If we are now rolling up the story and saying that the Minister of Finance has said this and the Secretary of State of the State of the State, we should bear in mind that, in particular, the wage calculators – we are always talking about tax simplification and administrative simplification and so on – have done something quite well with the taxation of drinking money. I believe that the path that has now been taken is right, and not only because of that – a colleague before me has already said that – because the hospitality industry is a low-paid industry, but also because it ensures a little motivation for the employees in the hospitality and tourism sectors, yes, in the service sector at all. Nevertheless, it is of course also important for entrepreneurs to reduce the additional wage costs, so it affects the service provider's contribution and the local tax, which I consider to be the right way. In the foreground of this measure, however, I believe that it should be a thank to all employees in the service sector, especially those who represent Austria externally, as is the case in the tourism sector. And I like that. It is therefore not necessary to consider for a long time who has had what idea, but if we all agree, then we should really approve of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19877	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19899	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I can, of course, fully endorse the statements made by my previous speakers. No question, trade and accommodation and restaurants benefit greatly from this exemption from the tax on drinks. Finally, a staff member in this industry is also a little businessman, because he is profiled and perhaps also marketed and, of course, gets recognition in the course of his work. There are, of course, also areas where legal or collective provisions restrict the adoption of drinking funds. I hope it doesn't catch certain industries. I am thinking, for example, of the craft services in the public sector or perhaps also of the Disequilibrium between a host who is himself outstretched and a single entrepreneur, and an employee in a restaurant. Interestingly, Mrs Hagenhofer, in the first quarter of the year, the level of employment in accommodation and in-houses rose by 4.8 percent. It seems quite interesting that the SPÖ today, in its resolution on an offensive for more work and growth, calls for the reduction of seasonal quotas, especially for tourism, to the extent that seasonal workers from the EU-15 are employed, as early as 2005. It is interesting that the tourist speaker of the Social Democrats has also participated in this, which means that a reduction is practically zero. The employees in these sectors will thank you, especially the companies. All in all, I think, a good action, so that we can agree to this exemption from excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19938	The next speaker was Mr Dr Liechtenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19959	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The essential thing has already been said by my colleague and also by the following speakers. I am very pleased that this is happening today on the day on which we have also adopted the Constitution for Europe. The most important thing for me is that the minimum trading margin is maintained, especially with the traffics that sell not only cigarettes, but also other things and those in the country, in which small communities are often the last ones to be preserved, and of course also in Europe. As far as drinking taxes are concerned, I agree with my previous speakers too. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e19987	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Kingdom of Cambodia on the promotion and protection of investment in 810 of the Supplements I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimous and therefore adopted. We shall also vote on the draft Federal Act on the performance of a contribution to the Asian Development Fund and Technical Assistance Special Fund of the Asian Development Bank, including the title and receipt in 855 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the tobacco monopoly law, including the title and receipt in 905 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimous and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to the draft law, in order to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous. The draft law was adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Income Tax Act, together with the title and receipt in 906 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[20:11:12]] 26. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (796, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the exchange of information in the fields of nuclear safety and radiation protection and the Appendix (929 d.b.) 27. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (807 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents (930 d.a.) 28. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (806 e.g._Other Organiser WIPO Treaty on Performances and Tongues (WPPT) Geneva (1996) (931 d.a.) 29. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (843 e.g._Other Organiser WIPO Copyright Treaty (WCT) Geneva (1996) (932 d.a.) 30. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (844 D.B._Other Organiser World Health Organisation (WHO); Amendment to Art. 7 of the Statute; Approval (933 d.a.) 31. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (845 D.B._Other Organiser World Health Organisation (WHO); Adoption of an Arab text and modification of Art. 74 of the Statute (934 d.a.) 32. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (846, e.g._Other Organiser World Health Organisation (WHO); Amendment to the Art. 24 and 25 of the Statute; Approval (935 d.a.) 33. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (863 D.B._Other Organiser Decision of the representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting within the Council, on the privileges and immunities of the European Defence Agency and its staff (936, p.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20152	We shall now proceed to items 26 to 33 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Grossruck. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20184	This is your greeting, Mrs Silhavy, "jessas na"! Make It's just that way. Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We now have a wealth of points to deal with, in my memory, all of which have gone on stage unanimously. Therefore, there is likely to be little discussion on the content. However, I believe that we should nevertheless address a number of points. In particular, I would like to mention the agreement with the Republic of Belarus on the agreement between Austria and the Republic of Belarus on the exchange of information in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection. Now we know that Austria did not use the nuclear fission for energy supply in 1978, and that it is also in favour of other countries worldwide, but above all in Europe, following the example and refraining from generating energy through nuclear fission. An agreement on information is once a first step, an important step, and especially Belarus was particularly affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Once you have been to Minsk and attended the Children's Cancer Clinic – I recently had the opportunity to do so – you will be delighted, as I think, by the development that has taken place there in this sector, with massive support from the Austrian Federal Government, with massive support from the aid agency. It originally has a Death rate of 80 percent in children suffering from cancer. Through this clinic the mortality rate has been reduced to 20 or 30 percent, so European standard has been reached. So that should give us hope. Nevertheless, I believe that we in general must also raise a vote against the use of nuclear power. I am just reading that it is planned to build a huge plant in Poland by 2025 in order to ensure the energy supply there. I think the whole thing is a difficult story. We in Austria have shown that we can do differently. Finally, I would like to add: Radiation has no limits. Drum must be the goal for all: Make Europe nuclear!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20239	The next speaker was Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20260	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Today we have a government paper on the privileges and immunities of the European Defence Agency and its staff on the agenda. I have to say with regret to my group that you, Mrs Foreign Minister, were unable in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to obtain competent views. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You judge that?]] There were no answers to our question when and where the National Council had decided that Austria should belong to the European Defence Agency. There was also no answer to our question when and where the National Council had been informed by the Federal Government about the participation in the European Defence Agency. There was also no answer to our question as to whether the Federal Government had examined whether there were neutrality or neutrality concerns regarding the participation of Austria. Nor do the explanations on the Government's draft provide any information on this matter. The fact is, however, that: The European Defence Agency will supervise the joint arms projects of the Member States and will also award procurement contracts. The Agency will systematically record military requirements and their shortcomings and will be able to make recommendations to EU defence ministers. – All these questions are of great importance, so you can’t simply keep your eyes on them. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Whatever you have not been able to explain to us or perhaps have not wanted to explain, is why not all EU members of the European Defence Agency belong. Denmark, for example, as you know, does not belong to the European Defence Agency. Why, then, should Austria's participation in the Council's decision come about automatically? We expect from you, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you will simply comment in plenary today on all the questions raised. Perhaps you can also tell us how many of Austria's officials have been transferred to the European Defence Agency as national experts and what costs for the Republic, for the taxpayers. We believe that the question of the privileges and immunities of the staff of the Agency should be discussed together with the principle decision on the participation of Austria. For this, the ÖVP and the liberals were not ready. [[Abg. Scheibner: I explained this to you in committee!]] That is why we do not agree with this government proposal, Mr Scheibner.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20313	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20335	Mr Heinzl, you are right: We discussed this in committee. At the time, however, I also gave you an answer to the development of the defence agency, which emerged from the WEAG, which has been in place for many years, where Austria has been working since 1999 – and that was another coalition – and where, I think, 2000 or 2001, we have also formally declared accession and have discussed this here in the Austrian Parliament. The Defence Agency is nothing bad and nothing dangerous, but it is an institution that supports research projects across Europe – and that is also in our interest – and is doing planning tasks and is trying to support joint developments in the arms field. Unfortunately, we are still far from a truly general implementation anyway. So you can or can not do that now, I think it makes sense for Austria to participate in it, because we are also fully integrated into the common security and defence structure of the European Union. And this is not the result of the current coalition, but comes from a time when your group has been in the Federal Government. But this is about deciding, Mr Heinzl, the privileges and immunities for an international organisation of the European Union also in Austria. We are now a member of the European Union, that will be known to you, and it is unthinkable – if you have carefully taken care of it, you will know that your foreign-political spokesman has also granted this – that an institution and staff of an EU institution here in Austria do not enjoy the rights and immunities they enjoy elsewhere. So there you should separate the content, if you already reject it, from the natural granting of the rights they enjoy in each Member State of the European Union. Maybe it's too difficult to make such differentiations, but you should at least try. The agreement with Belarus has already been discussed, I can save myself. I think it makes sense. We are fighting to create a non-atomic Europe. We are still very, very far from this utopia, but at least the safety standards should be extended, and this agreement can go in this direction. The agreement on mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents with Croatia is also useful. Austria is trying to conclude such agreements with all neighbouring countries and countries closer to the region – an absolute advantage for us and, of course, for these countries. When amending the WTO Statutes, I asked the question in committee, and I still note that I do not think that it is a good idea to have a Country whose government discriminates against its own people, for whatever reason, is excluded from this World Health Organization, because it does not harm this government, but in truth harms the people we want to protect, because it is about creating common or equal health standards for all people in the world. That may be to question, but otherwise these agreements are all in order.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20383	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20404	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first look at an external policy issue which unfortunately is not on the agenda today, namely the 2003 foreign policy report, which, at the request of the government groups – as unfortunately already in the years before – has been completed in the Committee. I would just like to take this opportunity to repeat here the request or request made to you, Mrs Foreign Minister, that in the 2004 report, for which you will already be responsible, you will actually bring in more positioning and objectives and not just a list of the events that are of course helpful as a reference work. But I also expect a foreign policy report to address where Austria is positioned within the framework of the European Union, but also at the bilateral level. I very much hope that the next report you are responsible for will also provide more input than your predecessor introduced in the last 2003 report. Now to the agreements that are to be voted today. Mr Grossruck, you are not quite right in stating that unanimous consent will be given. While we agree with the agreement on information exchange in the field of radiation protection with Belarus and all the others, like the SPÖ, we will not be able to give the report on the privileges and immunities for the representatives of the European Defence Agency, for the same reasons that the Socialist Group has already introduced here. Mr Scheibner said yes, yes, that already has history, and since Austria was already there, we do not need to re-determine everything, but I do not think it would be useful to establish the new European Defence Agency without a National Council debate. They said that Parliament was informed, but we did not take a decision on this in the National Council. I have basically no objection to the usual privileges for members of an international organisation. But I would have liked to have at the National Council first a debate on this defence agency, which is extremely critical of the Greens, and led them on their duties and also clarified the question which the Minister in the Committee unfortunately could not answer us: Have concerns been examined in a constitutional way? What's that got to do? What has been the result of the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery? To whom the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Only then, I think, does it make sense to decide also on the immunities and privileges of the staff. That is why we will not be able to agree with this proposal, but with the others.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20438	Mrs. Plassnik has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20459	Mr President. High house! On the question of the European Defence Agency: It serves as a co-operation between the European States in the field of research and procurement. It serves to improve the negotiating position on procurement issues through European cooperation and to give more weight to research. It's under construction. ==References== She started her work in January 2005. It has its headquarters in Brussels and, when the construction phase is completed, it is intended to have a total of about 80 employees. All EU Member States – with the exception of Denmark – have expressed their willingness to participate. As is known, Denmark has an opt-out in the field of security policy. That is to say, the other neutral and non-allied EU members, Finland, Ireland and Sweden, also take part. The European Defence Agency does not impose any military measures, it does not send any military personnel, it does not create any obligations for Austria that would be prejudicial to constitutional or neutral. We also discussed this in committee. This has been examined by our international law experts and the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office. Parliament was informed of the establishment of the European Defence Agency by a joint action of the Council on 8.7.2004, which is the Joint Action on the establishment of the European Defence Agency. Austria, like the other countries, made a declaration on the occasion of its decision. That is to say, to answer the specific question, Austrian participation has resulted from this separate statement. And we suggest that you approve the privilege protocol that is available to you today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20492	The next speaker was Mrs Felzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20514	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to focus briefly on the points of the WIPO Convention on Performances and Tongues and WIPO Copyright Treaty. Austria was in the past and is still a world-famous cultural nation today. This is reflected in the image of our country and also in the numerous cultural activities that take place in our foreign policy, which are also very, very well presented in the book, in the 2003 foreign policy report. This report, which has already been quoted before, is an excellent means of working for many Members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Especially music and literature have always been export hits in our country. Of course, a lot has changed since Mozart and our literature from anno. Just think of the download platforms on the Internet, of the changed hearing behaviour with MP3 players et cetera. Now, on the one hand, we have the opportunity to present the creativity of the whole world, but on the other hand, we face the challenge of, of course, requiring legal protection for intellectual property. And the ratification of this Copyright Treaty and the Treaty on Performance and Tongues is a substantial extension of protection for this intellectual property. Austria has already laid a good foundation with its new copyrights in 2003, and now the national protection has been extended to the other countries of the European Union. The fact that such issues are now being dealt with internationally underlines the great importance that art and culture have in international cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20556	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20577	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is not so much about the problem that anyone is afraid of this defence agency, but simply about formalism as it has come about. On the morning, our club head Alfred Gusenbauer addressed how to deal with the public and how to deal with the information obligations. In this case, the Council has set up an agency and you have remained guilty of proof of Parliament's information. There was no discussion on this in the main committee, no discussion in the subcommittee and no discussion in plenary. But now, at once, the European Union needs the national states to be able to make this agency work at all. Mrs. Minister! In my opinion, the basis for this agency is actually the European Constitution, because the Constitution contains a declaration of will to establish this agency. You do not have the Constitution yet, although I hope that you will have it soon! However, the Agency has been set up by the Council in a certain amount of self-evidentness, and this is certainly a problem of bureaucracy. A sentence on the nuclear safety agreement: I very much welcome this too! It is very desirable for Austria that the white spots disappear on the map. Another agreement has now been reached with Belarus in the area between Poland, Russia and Ukraine. Mrs. Minister! It is less gratifying that this agreement was adopted by the Federal Government in 1997 and signed by the two states in 2000 and that it is only in the Austrian Parliament in 2005.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20615	The next speaker was Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20636	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! I would like to make a brief point because it is now again under discussion that we are losing only one sentence to the European Defence Agency. I think it might be the more correct expression to call them a procurement or research agency because no defence matters are perceived as such. I think it should be borne in mind that the neutral states, i.e. Sweden and Finland – as Mrs Minister has already mentioned – are also involved, of course, and that Parliament has been properly understood. The government is now responsible for providing personnel in the individual interests. In this case, it should be noted that: The fact that, as with all international institutions, the privilege of tax freedom and immunity is granted here is a source of course. Mrs Bundesminister, I would also like to thank you for focusing on the Balkans and for having a security agreement for disasters and accidents with Croatia. All neighbouring countries are already included in such a bilateral agreement. This creates a good neighborhood for Austria, a good reputation and recognition for these countries. In particular, we would like to support you in supporting Croatia in the efforts to be included in the European Union! The Austrian People's Party is with you in this regard! We are pleased that in the Balkans we also take into account the security aspect on the part of national defence. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that we have 280 soldiers available in Kosovo and in Bosnia-Herzegovina. This is a further contribution to security, and a contribution from foreign policy is being decided today. Thank you! You're on your way, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20678	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20700	Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In addition to the agreement we have today given to the European Constitution, Austria also needs agreements with its immediate neighbours, for the purpose of helping quickly and unbureaucratically and without problems in the event of disasters or serious accidents. This government template, which sets out the agreement between Austria and the Republic of Croatia, lays down precisely the following conditions: The national system of competence will lead to the coordination and overall management of disasters. Mrs. Foreign Minister! We agree, of course, with this government proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20730	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20751	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With the overwhelming adoption of the European Constitution this morning, an essential step has been taken to strengthen, clarify and intensify European security. It is all the more incomprehensible that I am now looking for reasons to refuse approval in the evening, and be it with the little comprehensible argument that this European defence agency would not have been decided here in the House. There have been many good reasons why Austria is well advised to participate here and, of course, also to grant full rights to employees from this international activity. Ladies and gentlemen! Security cannot be shared, and I therefore believe that it is very important and essential to conclude these information exchange agreements in relation to nuclear disasters with Belarus. In view of the recent disturbance in the United Kingdom, it is not insignificant that these international treaties are not only adopted, but also taken seriously. It is important that multilateral emergency protection programmes take place and that there are early warning systems that increase our, European and global security. In the same direction, assistance is also provided in the case of disasters agreed with Croatia. However, I would also like to point out in this context the further eastern neighbouring countries, such as Ukraine, where I have always felt very strong signals and great interest in integrating into European cooperation and information systems. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you for always involving Ukraine in your further efforts. In this respect, this is a good way forward together.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20794	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. – I ask you to take the seats! Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements with the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the exchange of information in the fields of nuclear safety and radiation protection, together with the annex, to be approved in 796 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements with the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents 3 para. 1 and Art. 8 paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Constitution shall be amended to grant approval in 807 of the Supplements. With regard to the aforementioned constitutional provisions, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I also note the constitutional majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: WIPO Convention on Performances and Tonal Carriers Geneva in 806 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Policy, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the embodiment of the Spanish, Russian, Arabic and Chinese language versions must be carried out by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: WIPO Copyright Agreement Geneva in 843 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Policy, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the rallying of the Arabic, Chinese, Russian and Spanish language versions must be done by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously the case and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: World Health Organization; Amendment to Art. 7 of the Statute; Approval to be granted in 844 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: World Health Organization; Adoption of an Arab text and modification of Art. 74 of the Statutes in 845 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: World Health Organization; Amendment to the Art. 24 and 25 of the Statute; Approval is granted in 846 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Decision of the representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting within the Council on the privileges and immunities of the European Defence Agency and its staff in 863 of the Supplements to be authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – It is the majority and thus adopted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Policy, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the embodiment of Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Portuguese, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian language texts must be made by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is largely accepted. [[20:44:10]] 34. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (866, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Costa Rica, the Republic of El Salvador, the Republic of Guatemala, the Republic of Honduras, the Republic of Nicaragua and the Republic of Panama, of the other part, and the Annex (937 d.b.) 35. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (867 d.a._Other Organiser Agreements on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Andean Community and its Member States (Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombia, Peru and Venezuela), of the other part, and Annex (938 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20968	We now come to points 34 and 35 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e20995	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From the Greens it will be – but I say that with regret! – can unfortunately not give an agreement to these two agreements. I am going to justify this now, because otherwise those who were not in committee wonder why this is so. In principle, it makes sense in the context of the expansion of political dialogue with the states of the Andean Pact and also the Central American States to establish a stronger link between the European Union and these States. The problem we have here is that these agreements are more or less just a continuation of agreements that already exist, for example between the EU and Mexico or between the USA and Latin America. The present agreements are primarily designed to prepare free trade agreements within the meaning of the first mentioned ones, but in a form where a post- sustainable development within the meaning of the three axes of ecology, economics and social affairs is not to be borne. That is one of the reasons for our rejection. It is not really understandable, for example, why experience resulting from studies commissioned by the European Commission itself in order to determine, for example, the effects of the EU-Mexico Agreement or the Free Trade Agreement between the United States and Latin America have not been included in the present Agreements. I am referring in particular to the negative experience of the destruction of local agriculture, for example, or the loss of 1.3 million jobs in agriculture in Mexico since 1994 in the case of the Agreement between the USA, Canada and Mexico, and the fact that it was not possible to create only nearly as many jobs in the Maquila industry, i.e. in the so-called export production zones. – This is an example. Furthermore, environmental destruction, the concentration of production in the hands of transnational companies, and the promises of political dialogue were not met either. All of these are analyses that emerge from a study commissioned by the European Commission itself and which was then presented. In this respect, it is incomprehensible that the present agreements now take more or less exactly the same measures that are criticised by previous agreements and simply rewritten. Another criticism is that the very different political, economic and social situation in the individual states is not at all happening. Many of the countries of Central America, for example Guatemala and El Salvador, have a civil war past, which has not yet been worked out, but others have not. The decades-long war in Colombia is also not taken into account. There is a single note that the reintegration of the illegal armed forces is to take place. But we know that this is primarily about the paramilitarys. In this respect, these agreements have a headline: Unfortunately, they do not address the living conditions of the majority of the population. That is why we cannot accept this agreement. Thirdly, I come to the area of migration: In this respect, the Agreements set out the declaration of will that illegal migrants should be withdrawn and that such readmission agreement should be concluded as soon as possible. Regional agreements are increasingly calling for these readmission agreements, just recently with Russia from the European Union. We know, however, that in practice this can often mean quite repressive measures. – That is the third reason why we cannot accept these agreements, so important we find the political dialogue with this region. But, unfortunately, we cannot agree in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21047	The next speaker was Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21068	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek, I do not understand your criticism. I do not believe that the loss jobs in agriculture are due to such agreements, but simply to the fact that modernisation and restructuring in agriculture cannot be stopped either in these countries. On the other hand, this development also benefits people because they have different, lighter working conditions. But apart from that, we welcome these agreements because they deepen relations between the European Community and Central America and because they play a very important role in the development of political dialogue. The creation of a framework under which a practical and beneficial association agreement can be created for both sides is also an important reason. On the concerns raised by you from Germany regarding cooperation in the field of migration: Indeed, the fear of implicit shifts in competence regarding the conclusion of readmission agreements has also been taken into account by a Council and the European Commission statement. I therefore believe that this agreement, which applies unlimitedly and does not involve any financial commitments for us, is very welcome, because, in the sense of global peace efforts, not enough cooperation can be spoken of and cannot be done enough to bring the regions closer to each other. I would therefore ask you to give your consent to this State Treaty to the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation with those countries, and also to a similar treaty with the Andean Community and its Member States. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21113	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21135	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The two agreements on political dialogue and cooperation between the EU and the Latin American states and the Member States of the Andean Community are aimed at strengthening political dialogue and cooperation in many areas, which we have already heard today. On the one hand, economic cooperation between the EU and Latin America is to be enhanced, but on the other hand other important new aspects such as human rights, migration, drug and terrorism are included in the dialogue. The purpose of this Agreement is to promote political and social stability, deepen regional integration and reduce poverty in the context of sustainable development in Central America. Latin America still has a large number of social and economic problems to solve. Unemployment – high unemployment! – mass poverty, high deficits in government budgets and economic depression make cooperation a very important step, even where EU financial support for this region has fallen sharply in recent years. In Austria, it is planned to hold a Latin America summit during the 2006 Presidency – a great opportunity to improve cooperation between Austria and the South American countries. The government side has not yet heard much of what considerations and preparations there are for it. Ladies and gentlemen! I think time is pushing, and it would be a real shame to let such a chance pass unprofitable. Ladies and gentlemen! We see from Social Democracy in both agreements the welcome development of a lasting and intensive dialogue and will therefore agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21180	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21201	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These two agreements on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Community, on the one hand, concern the Andean Community, which will extend to new areas such as human rights, conflict prevention, migration, drugs and terrorism. The other agreement also concerns the implementation of the main objectives of this Agreement, namely the deepening of relations between the European Community and Central America by strengthening political dialogue and strengthening cooperation and the establishment of conditions under which a practical and beneficial association agreement, including a free trade agreement between the Contracting Parties, can be negotiated. Ladies and gentlemen! So it is in the reasoning of the submissions, and so it is reasonable. We will, of course, agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21232	Mr Glaser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21253	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement that the European Union has concluded with various Latin American countries and which we are ratifying today is, in my view, an important step, and we must not overlook the fact that the past of these countries is very different and partly also very complex. On the one hand, it has been stressed several times that respect for human rights is not too short, especially in relation to the indigenous population; it is a question of helping to enforce the rule of law in these countries; it is about the major problem of drugs as a whole and the associated civil wars, terrorist movements or ‘liberation movements’, as these groups sometimes call themselves; and it is also about protecting the partly great natural resources that exist in these countries. In my view, the economically difficult situation is not necessarily the main problem of these countries, because it is simply the result of difficult political and social development. In my opinion, it is primarily about political instability in these countries, which, due to the constant change of systems and ideologies, does not lead to continuous development. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore important that the dialogue not only takes place between the North and the South of the American continent, but that Europe also interferes in this dialogue and tries to help on the one hand, but above all with the States, with the parties, to talk to the various groups, to make an opinion, to give security. I think it is a matter of really trying to build and stabilize democratic systems in this continent and of trying to gradually support economic cooperation and economic development. That is why I do not at all understand the negative attitude of the Greens. This is totally inappropriate to what they otherwise represent, especially because these agreements are important to prepare further economic agreements – for example, the Latin America Summit in Austria during the Presidency. Your rejection is absolutely inconclusive to me. I'm still looking for you: Perhaps you can agree to this agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21304	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21326	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My colleague, Mr Muttonen, has already announced that the Socialist Group will vote in favour of these two amendments. I personally do not see this as negative as the colleague of the Green Group has described it. There are very innovative approaches in the agricultural sector in South America and Central America in recent years to large-scale agriculture in the form of organic farming, and very successful – much more successful and powerful than in Europe! I am thinking only of the impenetrable management of hundreds of thousands of hectares in South and Central America, not of the Group companies – the companies, of course, conventional – but of agricultural cooperatives in these regions. I also believe that the opportunities outweigh and that the dialogue that has been agreed here is a much more sensible one to promote the harmonious development and integration of these Central American countries. Of course, it is always appropriate to point out the problems that exist or can exist, but I still think that it might be necessary to find a different text or a different solution to these issues at European level. That's what we're happy to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21362	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Costa Rica, the Republic of El Salvador, the Republic of Guatemala, the Republic of Honduras, the Republic of Nicaragua and the Republic of Panama, of the other part, and the Annex in 866 of the Supplements, of the other part, to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the embodiment of Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish languages must be carried out by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Agreements on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Andean Community and its Member States (Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombia, Peru and Venezuela), of the other part, and Annex 867 of the Supplements, of the other part, to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the embodiment of Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish languages must be carried out by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. [[21:01:56]] 36. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Ulrike Lunacek, Mag. Karin Hakl, Mag. Dr Magda Bleckmann, colleagues on anchoring an international commemorative day against female genital mutilation (939 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21454	We'll get to 36. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21482	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! High house! ==References== February is to be a commemorative day for female genital mutilation. This is a problem that we do not know so much in Central Europe, but that – of which we were able to convince ourselves or actually had to – is huge in Africa. 155 million women around the world have been mutilated by an old tradition that is not at all religiously motivated, but precisely by the fact that it has always been made and that it is perceived as beautiful in certain societies. Many young girls die every year from this form of mutilation. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] In our proposal we have spoken of 28 African states where this practice is still going and going on. We have not yet calculated all those Arab countries, such as Egypt, but also other countries, where this form of genital mutilation is also still common. This also involves other social problems, for example, of those women or widows who traditionally live from such mutilation to young girls, and which, if one breaks this tradition, one must only re-enter into the structure of local society. It is important that we be on the 6th in the future. February together remember that there must be no tolerance for women to suffer their entire life under a senseless old tradition. That is why we have voted in favour of this day of zero tolerance for mutilating the female genitals. I hope you support this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21525	Next word: Mrs Bayr. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21546	Ladies and gentlemen! In February 2003, I had the opportunity to represent Barbara Prammer at an InterAfrican Committee conference on “Zero Tolerance to FGM” in Ethiopia. It was very impressive for me to see people from 28 African states come together – former circumcisions, first ladies, politicians, youth workers, religious leaders, all kinds of people who have exchanged about how to fight female genital mutilation in their countries. It was a very fruitful exchange, and the conference took place on 6 June. On the one hand, a declaration against female genital mutilation and, on the other hand, with the proclamation of the 6th. The InterAfrican Committee closed February as an international day against FGM. Back in Vienna, together with other women, men and organizations, I have founded the Austrian platform against female genital mutilation, and it has since been around 700 people and about 20 organizations of this kind. Platform joined. I would also like to invite all of you to do so. This is possible at the address “www.stopfgm.net”. It is about drawing attention to the fact that there is this crazy tradition that affects 7 000 girls every day, which deprives young women, babies, children, older women of their sexuality, their self-determination, their sexual freedom, their rights as women in the truest sense of the word. I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will succeed if, in line with our request, she works with the UN to ensure that this 6. In February, it will become an international UN commemoration against female genital mutilation. I think it would be important and necessary to set a sign – a global, strong sign – that all women have a right to sexual self-determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21598	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. It has requested a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21619	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Genital mutilation of women is a profoundly anti-female abuse, and it is really shocking that more than 150 million women worldwide are affected. These cruel interventions cause not only physical but also psychological damage to women, and it is very positive to note that in 2001 a law was passed by the then Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer in Austria that genital mutilation is regarded as a crime of serious physical injury, even if parents agree with the girl to be circumcised – for these are usually very young girls from two to four years of age. The main problem with this issue is that many women believe that intervention is absolutely necessary in order to be accepted by the Community. These women are also told by their environment that they are only valuable if they undergo this intervention. In addition, women in many countries experience social exclusion based on tradition, which also often leads to poverty and aggressment. This means that not only legal measures are necessary, but that real education and awareness-building are absolutely essential in order to counteract the cruel practices of genital mutilation. Especially for women on the ground in the various countries, it is essential to clarify that genital mutilation is not a religious necessity, for neither in the Bible nor in the Koran it is established that these cruel practices are necessary. In addition, it is essential to inform women on the ground that values and virtues are not reduced if they are not circumcised. That is why we particularly support this request, because only by making this subject public can many organizations and also individuals, especially in the African countries, where it is particularly common to inform people and to know what dangers they face. I would therefore ask the Federal Minister that she should be very specific about the fact that this international commemorative meeting against genital fraud is being held. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21670	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Lunacek. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21692	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My previous speakers have already addressed some of the problems of female genital mutilation. When I looked at the proposal again, I remembered that it was at the beginning of my work in development policy organisations 20 years ago, when 1985 the 2. World Women's Conference in Nairobi. At that time, there were violent reports of some Western women who protested at the conference against the terrible practice of genital mutilation and insisted that Africans had to do something about it. Many African women, on the other hand, said: Look at what's going on with you first! We're taking care of our things in Africa! Let's go on this subject alone, that's our topic! I think it has changed a lot since then. It is now true that in many African countries, in almost all those where genital mutilation is practised, there are women's organizations and other organizations that are opposed to ushering in the country itself. Those development policy speakers from us who were in Burkina Faso in 2001 – I think Karin Hakl was with us at the time – were able to attend, for example, a play that performed an earlier midwife with her organization in a village. This midwife has worked with a Forum Theatre method – with a theatre where you can jump in and play something yourself or find new solutions – in front of the whole village there with a few hundred spectators, men, women and children, this topic. The play had been designed with the people from the village itself. In doing so, she has also initiated discussion processes that make rethinking possible – a rethinking of those women who themselves commit these cruel acts, namely the girls maiming, but also a rethinking of men who think that girls and women are only pure when they are maimed, and also a rethinking of the girls themselves who believe that this is necessary. Well, luckily, there's changed a lot. Unfortunately, however, it is true that in Europe too, mutilations are constantly being made by doctors who believe that this is the case and that they are well paid for. I think it is good that attention has also become bigger in us and that it is possible to speak these words here in the National Council today and to speak of female genital mutilation. That would have been possible twenty years ago, I think, even here. I am glad that there is this request that all four political groups have agreed on it, and I very much hope that the Foreign Minister will follow this request and also work with many others at UN level to ensure that this day, the 6. February, in fact, a day of commemoration against female genital mutilation will be that the success will be, because the right to sexual self-determination, which Petra Bayrange has also spoken, is a very central human right. That is why I am glad that there is this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21731	The last word comes from Mrs Magistrate. Mulder. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21752	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow up with Mr Lunacek's statement, and I also very much welcome the fact that we are deciding on this commemorative day with this request. But we know that this 5,000-year-old practice unfortunately occurs not only in African countries, but also in migrants in Austria. According to estimates by the African women's organization in Vienna, there are about 8,000 victims of female genital mutilation in Austria. A hundred more women are affected each year, most of them going to Africa, more than 80 percent. In this area, information work is absolutely necessary. Vienna also promotes a consultancy service where medical and mental advice is offered. The funds, however, are not quite sufficient. This means that the Confederation is also called upon to make available funds. I expect the Federal Government to declare female genital mutilation as an asylum ground. This is not yet foreseen in the context of the revision of the Asylum Act – to the shame of many African migrants. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21780	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word is not requested by the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 939 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. Mrs. Haidlmayr, you're for that too? – This is unanimously accepted. (E 103.) [[21:16:05]] 37. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Ulrike Lunacek, ladies and gentlemen, on swift action against massive human rights violations and crimes against humanity in the Darfur Provinces (Sudan) (940 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21829	We'll get to 37. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. His welcome time is 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21856	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! ==References== At the end of the 19th century, the European Powers of Colonies began to compete in the interior of Africa. England and France, in particular, were fiercely competing with each other at the time, leading to the famous Faschoda crisis. As their solution, the spheres of influence of the two powers, then also with the other countries, were laid down, and the result is that borders were created are not on tribal borders or on ethnic boundaries or on large landscapes. After decolonization, these borders remained such – no natural boundaries, but any border shift would have led to wars of unimaginable scale. Of course, there are now massive conflicts in these countries in Africa. Today we are dealing with Sudan, Africa's largest land state, where for many decades there has been a war between the Christian-Animist South and the Black African population and the Arab-Islamic population in the north, which finally led to a peace settlement in May 2004. This conflict, however, has also spread over the Darfur provinces, and in order to act on it, the Arab-Nomadic tribes were armed by the Sudanese government, and the reaction was of course that the Darfur tribes have resisted. The result is, in any case, murders, rapes, lootings, kidnappings, forced recruitments of children, and all of this often after bombardment of the Sudanese Air Force. Hundreds of thousands of people are already fleeing, tens of thousands have died. The humanitarian situation is disastrous, both in the Darfur provinces and in the refugees in Chad. Some things have already happened. The African Union is using peacekeeping forces but has far too little money for them. Aid organisations are trying to improve. However, they are not supported enough by the Government in Khartoum and do not have the appropriate protection. The UN Security Council has decided resolutions, and the UN Human Rights Commission has condemned human rights violations. In order for more to happen, we are deciding today on a resolution. We address our foreign minister and ask her to continue to support the peace process in Darfur and also to support the rapid implementation of UN Security Council resolutions. I hope that these measures will help to ensure that peace will soon be established in these unhappy Darfur provinces.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21908	Mr Arbitrator now speaks. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21929	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, on this matter I can only fully agree with Mr Regler and say: I am glad that there has been a joint resolution in this important matter – and I am also convinced that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs will support Parliament to the best possible extent. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there will be other such concerns in the near future. It is close to the Presidency of Austria in the European Union, and of course also to the Austrian parliamentarians, namely all the political groups, to express their views clearly on certain issues, for example in the case of Africa. I know that the focus of our EU Presidency will be Latin America, but of course we will not ignore other parts of the world. It is therefore up to all of us to appeal to work on the question of Africa. AWEPA will be there still stir. Furthermore, at the IPU meeting, representatives of all four political groups from Asian countries have responded to the wish that we may support them in their efforts to ensure that the ASEAN Presidency, which would go to Myanmar in the middle of next year, will not go to that country until there is a corresponding human rights situation. I believe that this is also important for Austria that we support such things in the preparation and implementation of our EU Presidency, and I am therefore very glad that we are dealing here in Parliament not only with Austrian or European issues but also with global problems, where people, where other parliaments also hope for our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21968	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e21990	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Unfortunately, for the first time we are not dealing with this issue, nor for the first time are we taking up such a motion for a resolution. We are aware of our limited opportunities to really improve this disastrous human rights situation. We have today in the Early discussions on the future of the European Union and also on the need to pursue a common foreign and security policy everywhere as Europeans, where human rights are violated, where people are tortured, where people are driven out, where freedom and security are at risk. Especially in Darfur in Sudan, this seems to be obvious. There are still daily violations of human rights, which are immense. Unfortunately, there has so far been no consistent attitude by the European Union and not by the State community. There are some cautious threats, some sanctions, conversations and appointments, but all this is going on in the sand, nothing actually happens. I believe that we really should do everything in our power to achieve that the European Union is more clearly expressing its fundamental attitude towards respect for human rights. It can make a small, very small contribution to a more consistent attitude to this joint motion for a resolution. One should not give up hope of finally helping this oppressed population, but it has been lost a lot of time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e22020	The last speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Their group's remaining speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e22041	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! It doesn't often happen that I fully agree with the Clubobmann Scheibner in what he says, but in this case... Well, I would say. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not my fault!]] I mean, sometimes that's your fault. But in this case I can fully agree with you. I am glad that we have managed to make a four-party proposal here for a second time, in which the Foreign Minister is asked to make a decision, both within the framework of the United Nations and within the framework of the EU, but also at the bilateral level, that is to say to the Sudanese Embassy in Vienna, to representatives of the Sudanese government who are staying in Vienna or to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to meet elsewhere, clearly and clearly, the things requested in the request. It has long been known that the Sudanese government has repeatedly armed the militias itself and has still armed itself, that it does not adhere to the arms embargo and that other states do not adhere to the fact that the regime in Sri Lanka is in fact involved in many of the human rights violations and is constantly instigating this war and does not do what every state should actually do for its citizens, namely to protect them. It is also very important to me to say that it is quite clear that the Sudanese government is very sensitive to pressure from the outside, especially from the United States, but also from the European Union, for it has for some time wanted to get away from the accusation of being a villain state, being a villain regime, and therefore it is also willing to give in to certain things, but of course that is still far too little. I also see a problem in the fact that, on the part of the EU and on the part of the United Nations, the sanctions that exist are far too little, but which would be necessary to put an end to the murder. I am glad that we have made this request, because it is a mosaic – even if only a small one – in this pressure on the Sudanese government, which the Austrian Parliament and, as I hope, the foreign minister can also exercise.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e22078	No one's been reported in the word anymore. A final word will not be desired by the rapporteur. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 940 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – Mr Wittauer, with his back to the President? – The information is unanimously adopted. [[Abg. Wittauer hastens to his seat and stands there in the direction of the Bureau.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 940. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This approval shall also be granted unanimously. (E 104.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e22126	The agenda is exhausted. [[21:27:00]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e22148	We shall now proceed to the debate on a request from Mr Herzegovina, fellow Members, for the setting up of an investigation committee on the procurement of combat aircraft. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The debate was neither called for nor decided. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e22301	We shall now proceed to the vote on this request by Mr Kräber on the establishment of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The request remains in the minority; it is therefore not decided. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-05-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e22331	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 600/A to 608/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2986/J to 3024/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Mr Haidlmayr, ladies and gentlemen, has been put to the President of the National Council. – Mrs Haidlmayr, the question has now been answered. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for 9 a.m. tomorrow. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will be initiated by a Question Time. I would like to ask all Members who belong to the Special Committee on Constitutional Reform to the local VI for the Committee's constitution. This meeting is closed.
