ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00134_d7e373	I'll open the 134. Meeting of the National Council. The representatives of Jakob Auer, Haubner, Bures, Wimmer, Rossmann, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek are reported to be prevented. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00134_d7e404	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00134_d7e556	Four self-employed applications have been submitted, which I will now read and allocate, in the sense of the applicants. In addition, I would like to point out to the Committee on Internal Affairs the proposal 764/A on the revision of the Civil Service Act, the application 763/A concerning the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Migrant Workers and their Family Members to the Committee on Human Rights, application 762/A concerning the prohibition of imports and trade in dog and cat skins to the Health Committee; and Request 761/A concerning the setting of effective climate change targets to the Environment Committee. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 25 May. January 2006, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. [[16:44:50]] Address by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00134_d7e619	Ladies and gentlemen! The year 2005 was a year full of work: We held 42 plenary sessions and five special sessions. We have passed 160 laws, 63 state agreements approved, a budget decided to adopt nine Court Reports and a People's Prosecution Report, held two European days – an experiment that failed for the first time, the second time better. We have completed eleven current hours and four Questionnaires, 139 Committee meetings and 27 subcommittee meetings, have consulted and adopted 46 reports, have dealt with 15 urgent requests and urgent questions, have held 20 short debates, and until now, at 16.45, 12 036 requests have been submitted to the administration or to the President of the National Council and answered. Many international tasks were carried out by the High House: in the European Parliament, in the Council of Europe, in the OSCE, in election observations, in delegation visits. I would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for your cooperation this year. I'm not counting the speeches you gave, because the number of speeches has multiplied. That's not good! Why has this multiplied? And why don't I count it? – Because, according to my conviction, the number of speeches is not a benchmark for the activity of the Member, for the benchmarking of Members. All Members of this House always want to talk and have something to say on all the questions. The speaking time is limited, not all can speak. Therefore, the speech cannot be a scale. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I address from here an appeal and a request to the media to stop with the unscrupulous barbarians. [[New congratulations to ÖVP, SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will also become your spokesperson and agent by personally speaking to the editors of the chiefs. If you really wanted to make a benchmarking, you would have to see the extensive work of the Members. It is not just speaking, it is the presence in plenary, it is the committee work, it is the thousands of questions, it is the international representation, it is the delegations to which one belongs, it is the activity in the National Fund, in the General Settlement Fund, in general compensation funds, where many of our Ladies and gentlemen work constantly and with dedication, but it is also the work in the constituency, it is the information events, the information documents distributed, the meetings held, and the thousands of interventions, where our Members make themselves the speaker and speaker of many, many citizens, in order to close the gap between administration and people: These are important activities! And if you wanted to introduce a benchmarking, you'd have to take all of this into account. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to tell you that, to my great satisfaction one hour ago, I released the first instructions for the General Fund for compensation. That is, after legal peace has taken place after this House has unanimously decided to make advance payments, we can make the first payments this year, in the commemorative year. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, with your participation, Parliament turned into an open, more open Parliament. On the “day of the open door” there were 13,500 people here in the house. Demand is very, very large. The Presidential Conference has decided that in the future we will hold a “day of the open door” each year, keeping more hours open than before. We have a strong increase in visitors. In 2004, we had 63 000 visitors, in 2005 already in the two months in which the house was newly accessible, there was an increase to 74 000 visitors. I am convinced that next year the number of visitors will double. We from the Bureau, with your help – with the clubs, with individual Members – have conducted 101 events in this House, and my colleague, Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer, and my colleague, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, I would like to thank you very much for your work. That means: Optionally every second working day, there has been either a book presentation or a political discussion or an survey of a club or a picture exhibition or a youth parliament. These events have brought 12,000 people to this house. This shows – all the surveys we are making – that Parliament is in high esteem in the population. This is due to your zeal and openness to everyone – not least to our employees. On this occasion I would like to tell you that we have first-class employees, enthusiastic ladies and gentlemen, who do not watch the clock. There are ladies and gentlemen here – I don't want to call names – who are really in the service and loyal to their service provider, loyal to Parliament. I would like to wish you and your families all the best for the Christmas holidays on your behalf and thank them and also to assure them of our loyalty. [[Generally lively condolences.]] I wish you all, ladies and gentlemen, after a year of work, a blessed and joyful Christmas and a good new year! Good you and your families! [[New general appeal.]] [[16:52]] The sitting is closed.
