ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1459	The meeting was opened. This is the 124. National Council meeting, but the first to be devoted exclusively to discussing issues of the European Union. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that after the last European elections, where there was only 42 percent of the vote, we have discussed in detail among ourselves what the National Council can do to improve the level of information on important policy areas that are being dealt with in the European Union, so that citizens can know more about what is happening in Brussels, what is being decided in the European Parliament, what is decided in the Council of Ministers. We have therefore looked forward to this day of Europe four times a year, and I would like to thank Austrian television for transferring the entire deliberations from now until 5 p.m. – with a brief interruption for the midday news. We have agreed on four policy areas which are important policy areas for our fellow citizens, where there is a dialogue between the National Council and the relevant government members. The first block deals with the problems of jobs, growth policy and economic policy. The second block deals with the European Union’s very important service directive, which is at the planning stage, for our fellow citizens. The third block is devoted to the fight against terrorism by the European Union. Finally, the fourth block: the European challenge related to higher education policy, access to higher education. These are important issues that will be discussed today, and I would like to point out that, with regard to this European day, we have the symbol for the EU Presidency of Austria here in front of the Bureau and also in front of the speaker's desk. [[The Bureau and the speaker board have the logo of the forthcoming Austrian Presidency: the EU's flags form a colorful bar code.]] This is not the normal logo, it will only be here on Europe's day. It is the symbol of Austria's starting in 1. For half a year, January will provide a service to the European Union, which will hold the Presidency for half a year. I do not need to stress that this is also an award for our country Austria. Thank you for coming here today. Mrs Rossmann has been reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1529	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for the Interior Read Prokopwerd by Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllress. [[09:08:18]] 1. Point
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1565	We are now entering the first subject area of this Europe Day. I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Molter the word. His word record must not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1589	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! We do not enter a new country with the European discussion here in the House, but it is nevertheless a premiere. It is indeed this first day of Europe that we have undertaken to discuss Europe publicly here in the house, thanks to television, also with the public. – Why is that for us, why is that so important to me? The European Union is not alone in Brussels or at home in Strasbourg, Europe is everywhere, the European Union is everywhere. It determines our everyday life. Of course, it also determines our political decisions here. And it is clear that the European dimension in our Parliament, here in the National Council, must play a central and important role, ladies and gentlemen. We must not just leave the debate on Europe to the European Parliament or, for example, to the Commission, but it is our duty as a Member of the Austrian National Council to discuss Europe and to deal with European issues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this initiative, we are actually taking forward something that the European Constitution, which – and I am convinced of it – will come to the national parliaments as a task. This European Constitution provides for the early integration of national parliaments into the decision-making process of the European institutions, so that we can also raise our voice, our European voice, and actually exercise influence; this new constitution, which will also set out the idea of subsidiarity and commits us to vote in good time in the sense of subsidiarity when something is directed against the idea of subsidiarity. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think we also have the duty to deal with Europe here, also as an answer to criticism that is being practiced on the European project. And we should also, yes, I say it, be self-critical to the chest, that we sometimes make it too easy and say, as far as the problems that are not to be denied are concerned, it is all too easy to say that it is Brussels, Strasbourg or anyone else. I don't take anyone out here. I think that from this criticism, which exists, it is our duty to have this European debate. to lead offensively. I would therefore like to thank all the club colleagues and, above all, President Khol for having established this initiative in a consensual climate. But with this, and I am saying this very clearly and openly to all of us, we have also taken on an obligation, a commitment that we must consistently fulfil these European days with life, which is permanent, ladies and gentlemen. As a People's Party, we have dealt with the important issue of growth and employment. Why? – To have employment is the most central concern to accomplish. And full employment is, of course, the goal. We do not care if many people in Austria are unemployed, even in Europe millions of unemployed social, human and therefore social problems are first-order. It must be equally clear, however, that we need growth for the goal of full employment, ladies and gentlemen. Some debates over the last few days, weeks and months have irritated me very much. I have found that one believes that concepts of the past can solve the problems of the future. We need growth as an engine of employment, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And if we are clear that we want full employment and need growth, then thirdly we must be equally clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we need Europe, the European Union as a growth engine and as a growth initiative. Therefore, employment on this issue in the European context. Many people ask – and you have to answer these questions: Does Europe, then, have Austria's membership of the European Union strengthened these initiatives towards growth and employment? – We can say today: Yeah, that's what happened. Europe has brought us something, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's so important that we repeat that time and again. Inflation is lower than it was before; it is halved compared to the ten years before membership. Stability means that. The export rate in the Austrian economy has increased to over 50 percent, ladies and gentlemen, and exports are called: Job in Austria, employment in Austria. This European Union has also brought us forward in prosperity. The gross domestic product per capita, for example, has increased from €19 000 to €27 000 in these ten years, and we are head on with Switzerland today. Who would have thought that ten years ago, ladies and gentlemen? Direct investment has quadrupled, and this European integration – as the economic researchers agree – has created 70,000 new jobs and new jobs. Europe is a wealth and job gain! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But which Europe? From my point of view, this is also a question that we must answer. And I say it very clearly from my point of view: If Europe can fulfil this task of being a growth engine, then we need a strong Europe. Imagine how economic blocks develop: the USA, China, Asia. If anyone believes that Weak Europe is the answer to the strength of China, India, Asia, the USA, and it is extremely deceptive. We need a strong Europe because only a strong Europe, for example, at the WTO conference in Hong Kong can be counterweight to the US or Asian development. We need a strong Europe, for example, when I think about research and development, and especially a small country like Austria, a small open economy, needs this strong Europe. If you want to formulate it salopp: The great ones can judge it, but we need this Europe as a small open economy. To be clear, ladies and gentlemen: Do we always have that? - I doubt it. In Europe, for example, if everyone does what they want, this is not a strengthening of Europe. Or: For example, if the debate on the Stability Pact is really only about how to make it softer, rather than asking how to consistently implement it, then it is not a contribution to strengthening Europe. On the contrary. This clarity in the answers also requires Europe in critical questions. I am very grateful that German Chancellor Schüssel and Ursula Plassnik speak in a very sensitive question – on the question of Turkey's accession – this clear language: Yes to negotiations, but equally to alternatives to full membership and to whether Europe is able to take up, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Growth and employment also require the interaction between the European institutions and the Member States. I think Austria has done a good job here: with the economic packages, growth and location packages, tax reform I and II, or, for example, with the employment pact and employment package decided yesterday, and the infrastructure offensive. In this sense, I think that we will also develop this programme, this partnership for growth and employment with Europe. Sustainability of public finances, labour market offensives, research and development, infrastructure, location security and SME offensive, education and training as well as sustainability in environmental policy and resource management – these are our priorities for this programme, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, this growth and employment programme means defending and safeguarding the European model of life. And this is very important to me here: It's not just about the naked numbers, about naked millions or billions of euros, no, it's about much more. For me, this European model of life, based on the economic strength of Europe's social responsibility, means to formulate full employment as a goal and to ensure sustainable development. We want and need this Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1751	In order to give an introductory opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1772	Mr President. High house! It is a pleasure to have this European discussion in front of the logo of the Austrian Presidency, the symbol that Rem Kohlhaas has designed – and I think it is a very useful symbol. The meaning and the deeper meaning of this symbol is that not an abstract motif was chosen here, but the identities – and flags belong to the identities of the Member States – equally draw a very colorful, colorful image of Europe. That is, I think, a programme at the same time: It must not be a Europe in which, as it is now being discussed, six big people give the tone, and the others have to follow or have to follow, not even ask questions – but a Europe of equal rights, democracy, dignity and the peculiarity of the different Member States. That's our goal. This means color, that is, life, and that is, I believe, enrichment for the citizens, a Europe that: They all want and we have finally had in mind when we joined ten years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think this European debate is very useful because it simply gives the opportunity to talk very focused on important issues that affect Austria, its employees, its entrepreneurs, investors, rural areas. And finally, it cannot be determined exactly as a percentage, but I would say that more than half of what today affects people's lives is decided not only in the Austrian Parliament or in the Austrian Government, but also in the European Parliament, also in the Commission, also in the European Council or in the various Council formations. That is why it is important that we make these links clear. What is happening in Strasbourg or Brussels in Parliament or in the various Council formations, informally in the Member States or in Brussels or in Luxembourg, touches us, is our decision and should therefore be discussed in a hopeful European spirit. Europe does not have a good press at the moment – you have to say that quite openly. See the various surveys on: How popular is the Union?, Is it a good or a bad thing?, Should you go or not?, then you see clearly that there is a lot of skepticism, a lot of reservations among people, not only in Austria, but, I believe, in many European countries. The answer to the question of what to do is not that simple. The stone of the sages has not yet been found, and it is probably also in these various concerns always a bundle of motifs that play a role. If, for example, we take the two referenda in Holland and in France, which have, so to speak, been a shock – some say: a healthy shock; I do not say that, but it was a shock – in the constitutional debate, then we see this bundle of motives here too. I think – and this is central to today’s issue that we are starting to address – that a large part of people’s concerns are due to the fact that they do not feel that Europe is doing enough to protect them. Europe must benefit and Europe must protect: its own workplace, competitiveness, security – military, internal security – a strong weight, a strong voice in the world. And many people have the feeling of 19 million unemployed throughout Europe – also in Austria 220 000 in August; this is far less than our share of the population would result, but it is a lot, not a question, and therefore the scepticism of the people –: Is Europe doing enough? As far as the question is concerned: What are the recipes for this?, I think that some elements of the discussion are going in the right direction. The fact that, for example, the new President of the Commission did not list 25 priorities, but said that we must focus on growth and employment for the next time, I think, because first and foremost, in order to be able and able to finance the other things, we need this: more growth, as the other parts of the world show us, and resulting from it – not by political decisions – more jobs. The direction that is being discussed, for example in the unfortunately failed financial perspective for the next seven years, is in principle also correct. We must therefore do more in the field of research. Austria is there, I think, well on the way. We have doubled research expenditure since 2000! Thanks also to the economy that has contributed a large part of it. It wasn't like that before: In the past, the state has pumped the public hand more into research. Now the relationship has turned out to be God's thanks: about 60 to 40 or even a little better in favor of the economy. But the way is right. And it is also important that we improve the European budget for this: from 35 billion – the last proposal – to 46 billion €, plus – Austrian proposal – another 10 billion on it via its own research bond, a research facility, so that we have an increase of 60.70 percent in the field of research alone. However, the national research budgets, which are much higher than the EU budgets, are still included. We spend almost €200 billion per year on research – that's a lot of money! If we were to use this right now for the priorities that brought us more growth and more employment, then that would, I believe, be a huge armada of good ideas, of talents, of visions that could be realized in concrete terms. The second point that has been repeatedly raised is the infrastructure, for example, by the speakers of all four political groups yesterday. Right here is the same thing: Financing is primarily national, of course. But the Union itself can do something, especially in the projects that are cross-border. And we are very glad that Vice-chanc Gorbach has managed to have five to six Austrian projects – the largest in the case of the Brenner Base Tunnel – taken in among the large 30 Trans-European networks. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: We already have that before...! It's been a long time...!]] It must be our ambition that this project can really be started next year with the test stolling and will not be delayed, dear friends! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But here too: Of course, we have to do our homework primarily ourselves, and there is Austria, I think, really good on the road – I would like to emphasize this again here in front of the television viewers –: [[Abg. Sburny:... 160 driving!]] We have doubled the expenditure on infrastructure over the period 1999 and before! [[Call to the Greens: But that's useless!]] It works today alone in road construction – I know that because I was responsible for it for a long time as Minister of Economic Affairs – around 10,000 more people – only in road construction! – as before 2000. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser:... Not at all!]] And in rail development with everything that belongs to it, around 15,000 people have more work than at the time. Therefore, it is very good that your suggestion: more money in the infrastructure! , is implemented today on point and indent. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Look at the motorway construction sites!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I personally believe that the idea now presented by President Barroso and Commissioner Günter Verheugen is also very useful, namely to reduce the number of rules. No one can tell you exactly how many they really are; it is said that 80 000 different acts are currently in force in Europe and apply to all of us. His goal is very ambitious. It has now started with 70 directives, and its aim is to get about a third away, from 70 000 or 80 000 to 50 000 different acts. How difficult this is, of course, one can see that Barroso has made a proposal that we have not liked at all, namely the non-ratification of the Alpine Convention, the traffic protocol, where we attach great importance to the fact that this protocol remains in the legal system, because we want to ensure that this act guarantees that not additional high-level roads, the Alemagna or various others, are built through the Alps. Nevertheless, the way is right, but the accuracy of the hit, I believe, is of utmost importance, ladies and gentlemen. We will take up the idea that Klubobmann Molterer has also addressed. The Dutch are now doing this in November; we will convene a subsidiarity conference in the Austrian Presidency and we will go a common way with the regions, with the federal states, so that we can really have the opportunity here to find a new concept, a new weight, a new balance between tasks at European, national and regional level. In principle – I conclude my remarks with this because the speaking time is unfortunately already around, 10 minutes are relatively short – I wanted to say: Personally, I am not afraid that if we make Europe smart, and if we are honest with people, we are able to answer their questions and avoid them from the outset, we will be able to get back into the hearts and minds of the people – a way that has to do with growth and work. We have benefited greatly from the enlargement of the European Union to include our neighbours. We have secured a lot of jobs in Austria through significantly increased exports – tripled, quadrupled – to neighbouring countries. But the Commission will now report on the impact of protected labour markets, and we will then issue a notification in March that Austria will, of course, continue to protect its labour market. That is our obligation, that is our task, and I believe that this will be understood by everyone in Europe and around us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1903	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. His preferred speaking time is 8 minutes, the legal speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1924	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! The first day of Europe in the National Council will also open a new chapter in our discussion on Europe. We are pleased to be a People's Party, because we understand ourselves as a European Party, a party that is very clearly interested in anchoring Europe in the hearts, in the minds, but which also wants to talk about it, because we are recruited by Europe, where the citizens today, in their discussions, are also making critical points about the development of the European Union. We are therefore pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss this at the National Council for the first time today. Europe, ladies and gentlemen – which has already been criticised – is not just the European Parliament. Europe means that we have to deal much more closely with the issues that concern us today. That is why we have chosen the subject of economic, employment and growth, because it is also the subject of the we who are touching the population most. I therefore believe that we should talk about this today primarily within the European framework. We have also prepared a request which I would like to make formally, namely the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Molterer, Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on the Austrian reform programme for growth and employment. It is a comprehensive selection of topics on which we have important issues. I am going to address the key points of this request in my statement anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at this issue, I would like to state in five brief points what our position as a People's Party is on it. For the first time, the question must always be asked: What can Europe do to promote growth in order to create jobs and what can we do about it? – I would like to say quite clearly: We must not expect Europe to do everything, because it cannot do anything about it. We are primarily invited to put impulses in this direction. And I'll tell you: I think this is also true and good, because I do not want to see a decision in Brussels about where a job is created in us, but I would like us in the National Council to decide here at Austrian level which programmes are the right ones to go up in our case. If we look at what we discussed yesterday – big employment programme, € 284 million, which we invest specifically towards the labour market – then we have to say that is good and right. Let us not expect Europe to define, finance and create our jobs, but let us take greater care of them ourselves. I think that's the right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, Ladies and gentlemen: All questions: Where are the finances going, and the impression is that most of the money we are paying as a contribution from the European Union is put into any kind of projects that cannot be understood so well. I believe that we should be very careful, especially on the subject of finance. We are currently discussing the financial perspective on how to proceed in the next few years. I think there is a great deal of restraint. It is not about equipping the European Union with much more resources, it is rather about focusing these resources on the important projects, on infrastructure, which is necessary beyond the individual Member States, that we promote research, that we promote development – but not that with infinitely much more money to Brussels we ensure that decisions from Brussels also concern us. I therefore believe that our direction should continue to be that we cover our financial framework in the contributions of around 1 percent of the gross domestic product. We believe that this is important as a People's Party, and we would also like to strengthen the Federal Chancellor, who has to negotiate it in the first place for us, in that we remain in this framework. Thirdly, I would like to point out that, of course, the question always arises: How far should this Europe extend? How far do we want to go with these resources, to create economics, growth, jobs, and where is the whole thing to stop? – I therefore believe that there is a particular sensitivity to enlargement. If, in these days, it is to be decided what the negotiating mandate with Turkey looks like, we, as an Austrian, should stick exactly to our line, namely to show the scepticism as to whether Turkey is at all acceptable and whether the European The Union can assume that Turkey will once become a full member of that Union. We are the only ones in all of Europe, but I believe that we should fully support this line which the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister have set out on the part of the National Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is not just a question that we, as Members of this House, see here in the National Council, but I believe that a large part of the Austrian population is of this opinion. Fourth, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, in order to promote the economy, growth and jobs, we also need an appropriate regulatory framework. But there is also a great deal of reluctance. Today, when we look at the internal market, I think we have achieved an almost perfect state. Over many years, the European Union has contributed to the fact that trade is actually boundless within the borders of the European Union. I think this is good and right, but the question is: Do we want to continue on this path right now to the last detail? Do we want to contribute to the fact that there are many more rules in this direction – or do we not even want to suggest another way to show restraint? I believe that we now have a comprehensive set of rules in Europe, which does not make it necessary to put on the table one and a next and a next directive. I believe that reluctance, as it has now been discussed, is quite appropriate in connection with this ‘decolleté directive’, as it has been called. Fewer rules often bring more than we can achieve through very many rules to the last detail. Let me say a fifth and last point: I believe that the future task of the Union in economics, growth and jobs is much more to act more outwardly. It is much more necessary that Europe, with a self-confidence in the world market, also protects us in the WTO and in all other organisations against the fact that the negative consequences of globalisation are also a focus on Europe, that we contribute to this – even with pride! – that in Europe we have a high level of prosperity on a broad basis and want to keep it, and do not let others constantly agree that we need to reduce it here. I therefore believe that the future task of the Union towards the economy is not inside but outside, and we can all make a big contribution to that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] I very much hope, ladies and gentlemen, that with the day of Europe in the National Council, we will achieve one thing: that the spark will skip, that we can also give some impetus from the discussion here in our National Council, that Austria will discuss more about how meaningful and right it is to be in Europe, how necessary it is for Austria to get there, and how much we all have to contribute to the fact that Europe is also possible for every citizen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2033	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. His speaking time is 10 minutes. [[Abg. May. Lunacek speaks, standing in front of the first bank series, with Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I ask Members not to turn their backs on the speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2061	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a Socialist Group, we welcome the holding of this European day, because it is in fact an opportunity to discuss essential European policy issues at national level and perhaps to make a contribution to the productive discussion, I believe, of the EU-scepticism of the population at times. If you ask yourself what is the cause of the fact that many people are ever more skeptical of the European Union, I think that has to do with two things. First: How do European laws come about? And second: What problems are solved or not solved by these laws? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Or created!]] I believe that a major problem is that in recent years there has been a practice in which negotiations on directives conducted by ministers are always taking place, not always entirely in the light of the public; then decisions will be taken in Brussels or Strasbourg – and then this will come back to Austria and to the other Member States under the title: We can't do anything! The EU dictates that we must implement it! The problem is very common that, before it comes back and has to be implemented, no democratic discussion process is progressing. And this, of course, makes a lot of citizens skeptical, because every Austrian is accustomed to the fact that, before a law is passed in Austria, there is a public discussion with Pro and Contra, media reports and a parliamentary discussion. And that is not exactly what is happening in many of these European projects. That's why people say: That's not democratic. And our task is to remedy this democratic deficit, and for that these Europe days should also be good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second point: It is also about dissatisfaction with results. Employment, growth, wonderful, everyone will say that. The problem is, however, that the effect on people has not yet occurred. What do people have of commitment to growth and employment if there are still nearly 20 million unemployed people in Europe and in Austria over 250 000 jobseekers? That's what those concerned are saying: All the confessions are good and beautiful, but that doesn't help me. That is why, of course, the question arises as to how seriously certain ideas are taken into account in Europe. The fact that next spring, among other things, a conference is to be held on how to dynamicise this process has to do with the fact that the initiatives so far have not been very successful. It is now five years since the so-called Lisbon goals – all sounds very abstract – were decided. But I would point out that there was the goal: Europe is to be the most competitive region in the world by 2010. [[Abg. Sburny: Knowledge based!]] – Knowledge based. The truth is, the distance to the competitors has not become smaller, but larger. The aim was to increase the employment rate for women and, above all, the quality of childcare facilities. The truth is that the Commission's report is that central objectives have not been achieved. The aim was to reduce the distance in economic wealth to the US. The fact is that the economic gap with the United States has grown. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must not be surprised if the people are skeptical or dissatisfied with all these high announcements, because reality does not correspond to that. Then there are also a number of detailed problems that disturb people with justice in this regard. For example, we are talking about protecting the Austrian labour market. It is quite right to be protected during the transition of the Austrian labour market. Yes, but every day the circumvention of these provisions takes place. Every day the bypass takes place! I just got an information from Upper Austria, where companies are already writing out: We offer excellent professionals from the new EU countries. Your advantage: excellent price ratio, you save up to 50 percent on the local professionals, because no expensive social and health insurance registrations are required, no redeployments are required. [[Abg. Broukal: Mrs Sozialminister! What do you say?]] Then there's this: The use is of course perfectly legal, and for this an opinion of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce – will be delivered on request. Everyone then raises the question of how this fits together, ladies and gentlemen, that on the one hand, there is a confession that the Austrian labour market should be protected, but on the other hand there are already companies applying for employment to undermine these regulations. [[Abg. Broukal: That's incredible!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, this is dishonest! The Austrian population is rightly opposed, and you, Minister of Labour, bear the responsibility for this if there are maladministrations in the Austrian labour market. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the confessions alone will not help us, there must be results. And results in Europe can also be seen in such a way that one should, of course, try to reach common rules. I think it would be very appropriate, for example, to say to the new Member States, which are partly very successful: Friends, all of you will receive massive support from the European Union in the future. But the people of us do not understand that, on the one hand, you are giving support to the European Union: the Austrian taxpayer, on the other hand, is being used to put pressure on the other Member States of the European Union in a tax dumping, with the final result that, at the end, corporate taxes are moving towards zero and that under this tax dumping, public budgets are also under pressure from us. Ladies and gentlemen, solidarity in Europe cannot be a one-way road! We support the new Member States, but we also do not let tax dumping destroy our social and welfare state! And this message must also arrive once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there is also no need to achieve a common approach in all areas. On some questions, you can also see how other states are doing, and try to do so in the same way as those who make it better. You sometimes have the impression here in Parliament that you are at an hour of consecration: When the Federal Chancellor speaks, everything is always good. As the incense spreads, the statistics are turned in a certain direction. I say: For example, if you really want to solve problems, you could say: The fact that Estonia is second in public investment and third in economic growth may have something to do with it. The fact that Luxembourg is the country with the highest public investment rate and has the highest employment growth at the same time may also have something to do with it. - Yeah, I know. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And now the taxes are coming. You know what, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen? – Today, the “standard” published the new competition report, which states that Austria is from 17 to 21st. Place has fallen back. And do you want me to tell you something? – There are many countries that have a different level of taxation than Austria, in front of us: Finland in the first place; Sweden, Denmark, all in front of us. These are all countries that have not entered the international tax competition for large companies, but have provided decent infrastructure, research and development, and a corresponding economic growth. And as you can see, they're all better than we are. An interesting aspect of this study is the following: You know, in which area Austria is particularly bad, namely 22. Job? – In the ‘Government waste category’. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a very interesting aspect that should be taken into account in this context. Ladies and gentlemen, the European debates will make sense if the problems that exist are addressed if we learn from more successful other European Member States and if we can give people honest answers to the challenges. And I therefore also expect that what is said in the Turkey question will still apply next week: that Austria will not agree if it does not come to the conclusion that, in addition to the prospect of accession, there is also another form of partnership within the mandate. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Ask your social democratic colleagues!]] This will be done by you, Mr Bundeskanzler, from the 3rd century onwards. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2197	I announce that Mr Spindelegger's colleague, explained in his basic remarks and according to § 53 para. 4 motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Molterer, Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2364	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. His speaking time is gladly set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2385	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals welcome the holding of these European days here in the National Council, because we also consider it important that the Federal Government can take clear signals from Parliament to the negotiating level at European level. Although the new Constitutional Treaty is not in force and will not come to this early warning mechanism and the Commission will always present its legislative proposals to the national parliaments, I still think it is important that we hold these European days here, because it is necessary to provide our representatives in the crucial bodies – and that is what the Councils of Nice now in force – with a clear mandate from the Austrian National Council. That, I believe, is the goal of these European days here in the National Council, and we should start this today. We liberals want to do this, too, and we welcome the start of this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me briefly explain a few important issues for us. For us, the European Union is now at a crucial stage. The rejection of the plebiscites in France and the Netherlands will not bring the new constitution into force. This has made it clear that the European Union and the European policy as a whole have a deficit of confidence in the populations of the Member States. It was therefore important to strengthen confidence. It would therefore be necessary to in principle renew European policy in this direction. And there, I have to say, unfortunately, we do not see God's fundamental paradigm change. We welcome it when a Commissioner announces that he is searching through absurd regulations, absurd regulations and directives of the European Union, which have been drawn up in recent years, and he is removing the things that are no longer needed. However, more important would be, in our view, a clear signal to the population, which means that from now on there will no longer be any sense of regulation at European level. There should be a clear signal from the Commission that, from now on, the rules will be taken from Europe and close to the citizen, that the European Union will deal with the needs of citizens in the Member States and that it will not be included in an ivory tower and that no one can understand outside the economy and in simple life. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it would be important to send a clear signal here that, from now on, there is no unnecessary need for people in the Member States who are working people to be created only annoyed by regulations, but that the European Union only takes care of those things that are really useful. Ladies and gentlemen! The second point is enlargement. Enlargement has now entered a crucial phase. The credibility of the European Union in its populations will also be measured on this point. And the most important issue in this area is the beginning of accession negotiations with Turkey. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have already given clear signals at European level. They have clearly said that there must be no two-dimensional trade fairs, that we should not get one like Turkey into the Union and keep others like Croatia outside or push them outside, but that the Union must adopt clear directives that apply to all applicants for accession. It must also live up to these clear guidelines so that they do not come to a double-measured measurement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have also put in place clear measures with regard to the accession of Turkey, and we liberals support you in this position, Federal Chancellor. We would also like to strengthen you in this position to remain hard, especially in these days that we are currently living through. That is why it is also useful for us today to give a clear signal in this direction in the National Council, especially to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to the Foreign Minister, but also to you, Mr Winkler, that this issue is an important issue for the Austrian National Council and that it cannot have been in vain that you have reflected important things in the conclusions on the accession negotiations with the Republic of Turkey, namely those passages that are very important to us Austrians. The applicant country should be included in the European structures with a different commitment if it is not able to fulfil its obligations. This means that a clear alternative to accession will be considered. This is reflected in the conclusions of December last year. It also says that, in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the values in a candidate country on which the Union is based, namely freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, the Commission can see the reason for the suspension of the negotiations. Mr Bundeskanzler, which should apply to the negotiation process, must also be able to apply to the start of the negotiations. And if a candidate country does not meet the criteria required by the European Union, it is only right and reasonable to insist that the negotiations do not begin at all. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler: Stay consistent at European level on this issue! Take the risk that there will be no negotiations next Monday! I believe you could provide a service here to the entire European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sburny: What does this have to do with growth and employment?]] The fact that the European Parliament voted yesterday for the start of negotiations with Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunate, but it is irrelevant. [[Abg. Oellinger: On the topic!]] However, the Council's decision is not irrelevant, the decision on the negotiating framework with the Republic of Turkey is not irrelevant. This negotiating framework must be adopted unanimously. If Austria continues to remain consistent on this issue, this negotiating framework will not exist, and negotiations will not take place. And in the event that negotiations are still under way, Federal Chancellor, you have announced that it will only be possible if a second variant of the EU's relations with Turkey is clearly negotiated. This must be the goal of Austrian European policy in the next few days. Mr Bundeskanzler, we support the Freeman They ask you to remain consistent. The European future, ladies and gentlemen, is an important thing. It is also the only possibility for the further development of our continent and the further development of our Republic. We liberals have never disputed this, we liberals have always recognized it and have worked in this direction. We should, however, prove to people outside this important issue that the European Union is not the one that is always claimed, but that, of course, the European Union is also a Europe of the Fatherlands and that, in the Council, which is still the crucial level, there is unanimity on the most important issues, including this issue. That is why I can ask you, Federal Chancellor: Just continue to represent the interests of Austria and Europe on this issue and remain consistent with the EU's negotiations with Turkey on their accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2464	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2485	Mr President. First of all, a word of regret: We are of course very pleased that a reform of the Rules of Procedure has succeeded in establishing these European Days in the Austrian Parliament, but we very much regret that it was not possible to agree, within the framework of these discussions, that the Austrian MEPs in the European Parliament are also entitled to speak here in the National Council. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That would have convinced us that the discussion was very exciting and would have saved us a little from this always the same, almost infuriating Im-equivalent soup broths. That would have been a great enrichment. Maybe it's still going on. Secondly, A thank-you to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, who have prepared an information dossier for every item on the agenda today – so they call it – which I think is extremely valuable and which makes our work much easier. [[General condolences.]] Thirdly, I now have the intention to talk about growth policy in the European Union or in Austria. Finally, this is the subject proposed by the EIA. That is why I was somewhat surprised at the very general speeches made by my ÖVP predecessors, but in particular by Mr Bösch of the FPÖ. Mr President, I should like to thank One can stand to Turkey as one wants, but for the growth strategy of Austria or the European Union over the next five years, it is totally irrelevant whether the negotiations are now under way or later. It is important, from an Austrian point of view and for Austrian interests, especially for Austrian economic interests, that Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, that is, the entire Balkans, be integrated into the European Union as soon as possible. This is also a part of growth policy that we would be very supportive of. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] What is it about today? – I would have thought that the so-called Lisbon process was not very successful, we say it that way. The European Council is composed of prime ministers, Chancellors and so on. We are always only talking about ‘Brussels’ and the ‘EU’, but usually it is the Commission or the Council, including our Austrian Chancellor, who decides or does not. In this case, they have decided to recommend that the EU Member States implement 24 so-called Integrated Guidelines on Growth Policy in national programmes. In principle, I think that this is a good, important and right strategy, even if it is rather clumsy in detail – and I would like to talk about it. The difficulty begins with the fact that the 24 guidelines have by no means been written by anyone who has heard the words “citizen close” and“ plain understanding” before. And this is partly not completely irrelevant. For example, the sixth macroeconomic guideline means: contributing to the dynamic and functioning of economic and monetary union. – To comfort all those sitting in front of the TV or here in the audience gallery: Even if you've studied economics, know They don't spontaneous what it might mean. In the draft National Reform Programme, the Federal Government decided to interpret this point 6 of the Guideline as follows: We have decided to re-establish and harmonise pension systems. – I have to confess honestly, that is about the last thing I would have come to do if I had considered what in God’s name could mean the improvement of the dynamics and the functioning of economic and monetary union. I might have been thinking of competition directives, antitrust, monopoly control, so things like that, but not about rehandling. The Commission will review annually the implementation of these 24 guidelines of the 25 Member States, which will therefore have to evaluate and evaluate 25 times 24 more or less diffuse national interpretations of these guidelines. This is a difficult task and shows a little how difficult European policy, how laboriously – I am not saying road rollers – this companion is progressing. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] So there's a lot of room for interpretation. This is sometimes good, sometimes not so good, but if we are not so strict, let us look at what the Federal Government has provided for jobs to meet these 24 guidelines for growth, for employment, for the labour market. I assume, Mr Molterer, that it is still ‘work in progress’, even if this is to be done in Brussels in 14 days. A lot of time is not anymore! They will understand that I am focusing on the gaps in these guidelines and not on what I think is right. - I'll start from behind. Mr Molterer, let us go to Guideline 23: ‘Increasing and optimising investment in human capital’. – Let us also leave away the linguistic component. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is very precise!]] But one thing might be clear: Human capital is what we have in our heads up here. This is promoted or not supported by the kindergarten, the public school, the gymnasium, the primary school, the university, the parents, the whole social environment. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: From Mrs. Gehrer, for example!]] In Guideline 23, the word “school reform”, “great school reform”, does not at all appear in any school reform. That's incredible! Have you not read what the head of the Future Commission has said recently about the previous school reforms of Mrs Gehrer? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is a special problem!]] - Okay, you don't believe Mrs Gehrer's head of the Future Commission. I take note of that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, no, I said that's a special problem!]] Mrs Brinek, there are other studies. The OECD is not the EU, it is an unwarranted body. There are loud neoliberal economists sitting there, let's say it that way. There are people like me sitting there, I would almost have said. The Austrian school system is also criticized by these people – there is the latest study in 2005 – and they also confirm that the Austrian school system costs relatively much and brings the most modest results for it. Modest results! Something has to happen! Each year, 18,000 young people cannot read decently; they will be automatically pushed into unemployment in the future. Minister Bartenstein, who is not here, would have to be the first to sit in the front room of Mrs Gehrer every day and say: Please, Mrs Colleague, that's not how it goes! [[Abg. Riepl: Liesl!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have to wash out what you're missing in school on the unemployment budgets! I'm sure that's not the way it is! This is an essential element of a growth strategy for Austria with or without an EU guideline; I do not need an EU guideline to understand this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] If that's missing, I don't know where to put this growth strategy. - I'll take it back now. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You “get” to the level of Jarolim!]] Guideline 18 is important, but it is very difficult to get through it. It says: ‘Promoting a life-cycle approach to employment policy’. – We must now consider for a long time what the EU, what our Federal Chancellor, who has decided to do with it, could mean. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That means working longer!]] But it is true that women are referred to here; I am doing it briefly now. Mr Molterer, you claim that the reconciliation of family and profession mentioned here is guaranteed by the childcare allowance. We have been debating for months that re-entry after child benefit is so difficult and that we have to do something about it. On the one hand, the package of measures – and on the other hand, nothing! - No, I don't want to get rid of it! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want to remove it?]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to promote the return of women to the labour market. This is also a growth policy measure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Obviously! We decided yesterday!]] – You didn’t decide! As long as there is nothing going on in childcare, starting at kindergarten up to the 15-year-olds, you have not decided! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: With your voice!]] With our vote, a certain employment promotion package has been decided, but this will not be enough for women. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Women's return!]] That's all I'm saying. You can agree to a half full glass once. Don't tell us now that we agreed to a half full glass, because we only think there's something right in there, but okay, that's what we're supposed to be! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Then say it's right!]] Oh, my God! I am talking about the National Reform Programme “Integrated Guidelines” for Growth Policy. Mr Molterer! This issue is important! Don't bother me with voting!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2730	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. His welcome time is 6 minutes. Please, my colleague. – I would ask the honourable Member not to turn his back on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2751	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to comment on a previous speaker, namely Mr Gusenbauer, who, unfortunately, left Parliament again after his speech. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Although he's not here, he's here!]] Mr Gusenbauer has made a comparison here today, published by the World Economic Forum, and has set a great example of the Scandinavian countries that are in fact more competitive than we are. But he didn't tell the whole truth. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Not just!]] If the Scandinavian countries are a model, then one of you, the best cast farmer, should say: The SPÖ wants to increase taxes – because the scanners have a higher tax rate. The Scandinavian countries have a uniform retirement age for men and women aged 65. Tell me you want to raise the retirement age to 65 years for men and women! Tell me you want to raise taxes! That is the full truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has also fallen to Turkey. Say that your top representative in the European Parliament, Mr Swoboda, voted in favour of Turkey's accession. [[Call the ÖVP:Hear! Listen!]] Tell the whole truth, ladies and gentlemen! So superficially, we don't have to discuss with ourselves. There will be no tax increases with us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] There will also be an increase in the retirement age to 65 years with us! This is only done with a long-term stage plan and not ad hoc. That is the full truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Van der Bellen, you said to Mr Klubobmann Mr Molterer: Don't bother me with an intermediate call! – I can understand that a professor is not accustomed to bothering his students, but in Parliament it is customary. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: It's totally common!]] On the real topic: I am very glad that some previous speakers have already addressed the discrepancy between scepticism in the population as regards European development and the facts and data. If we look at the facts and facts, ladies and gentlemen, then we note that Austria today, ten years after accession to the EU, is much better than before. I just mention one example from the financial sector: We always say we're net payers. This is certainly the right accountant. The net payment is approximately € 400 million. But economically, we are net winners. Why? – All economic researchers agree that by joining the EU, economic growth in Austria is 0.4 percent higher each year. In ten years' time, this means: 10 billion more gross social product. 10 billion in our 40 per cent tax rate means that we will make 4 billion euros per year and pay 400 million as net payers. That is, we are very probably net payers, but economically, an incredible net winner, because the profit is ten times as high as what we pay as net payers. Thank God we are a member of the European Union! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Our clubman pointed to the profits of prosperity, to the comparison with Switzerland. Ten years ago, Switzerland had a gross social product of €4,000 per capita. At the moment it is 1 000 €. In two, three years it will be completely the same. These are economic benefits. We should discuss this when we talk about growth, employment and jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] This is our subject, Mr Riepl! The fact that we have too many unemployed is undisputed. But on the basis of yesterday's discussion, you know that we are much better off than many other European countries. But that doesn't mean that makes us happy. That is why we decided again yesterday on a new employment package. This government consistently adopts measures in the sense of growth and employment, precisely in the sense of what we are discussing here today at European level. [[Call the SPÖ: Too late!]] This is our responsibility for the future. We are committed to substantially improving the economic location. Economic location means jobs, i.e. income opportunities and social security. As a European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me say one more thing: If the Lisbon objectives are revised in such a way that the European Union no longer strives to become “the most competitive, dynamic knowledge-based economic area in the world”, but says that we want to increase competitiveness, increase productivity and increase the number of jobs, and, at the same time, the International Monetary Fund says that Austria is a model example of structural reforms in the EU, I would like to say that in Austria, too, we are going the right way in terms of growth, employment and jobs policies, such as increasing productivity, competitiveness, the number of jobs, and many European countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2882	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2903	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr President, you have said in your speech that in the Nordic countries, the retirement age of men and women is the same. – That’s right, but that’s only half the truth, because: Equal opportunities and equal treatment for women are much higher in these countries than in these countries, thanks to the policy that is being pursued there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Do you want 65 years for women?]] If you say that you decided on a very large-scale programme again yesterday, that is true, but again only half the truth, because you are too late for this package; we have said this again and again as social democrats and as trade unionists. - Point one. Secondly, you have stopped half-way, because there is nothing contained in it, for example, which relieves lower incomes. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why did you sleep for 30 years? You could have done it!]] There is no tax reform to be seen far and wide. And that's part of it too. In this respect, you do not do anything, the lower income areas seem to you to be really no matter what from the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can predict, ladies and gentlemen, that I am a glowing European, that I think it is very important that the European Union is developing further. But for me it is very crucial that there is a very striking and important area missing, namely that the European Union has a social face again. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would now like to quote you and correct you at the same time. They say that Europe has a “bad press”. – I correct you: Not Europe has a bad press, but the politicians who make this Europe have a bad press – and that is right, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Tony Blair, Gerhard Schröder, Zapatero!]] We have a large number of unemployed people in the European Union. Something's done. They say we have to make it smart. Federal Chancellor! Who prevents you from making it smart? – Together with the other opposition party, the social partners and the Social Democratic Party have brought many examples of how to make it smart. [[Abg. Neudeck: I missed 30 years at SPÖ!]] You just have to do it, but you don't seem to want it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to ensure that these politicians in the European Union have a bad Have a call: I think that your statement from the government bank yesterday, too, has not contributed to the fact that politicians have a good reputation. Their derailments were unworthy of a head of government. I'm still missing your apologies. This is also part of the political culture, very much appreciated ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] It is said again and again: We just have to do it! There are so many approaches in the area of the European Union. I only quote the decision of the Barcelona Council. In 2002, it was decided that by 2010 the care units, the density for those children under three years of age, should be increased to 33 percent. Let us look at the situation in Austria: If we continue as we do today, we need 30 years. It was decided in the European Union – you just have to do it! It should be noted that: The westerner you come, the more difficult it is to reconcile work and family. There's something you can do in your own country. It is possible to create good, qualified jobs for women. Only the political will that this Federal Government does not have – neither here nor in the European Union! I therefore ask you to: Give the European Union a social face again! Put people and their problems at the centre! Take active action to combat unemployment both in the European Union and here in this country, the workers, the people of Europe and Austria deserve this! Finally, take action, and don't just talk about it! You have the possibilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3022	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3054	Mr President. – Mr Jarolim’s usual calls would almost have gone off. – If I am referring to the statements made by my previous speaker, I must fear that these ‘European days’, if they continue, will be converted into an internal debate in which the word ‘European Union’ is used in every second sentence. To your comparisons and to your statement that you have the good ideas, just one sentence: At the end of the 1990s, we saw what you have done with your ideas, namely a record deficit, a record rate and a record unemployment, while we are the biggest tax- [[Complaints with the liberals]] I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. We have made three economic recovery packages to fight the European trend to relieve Austrians and also to make Austria attractive within the European Union. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] But, of course, we cannot decouple ourselves – and this should actually be the subject here today – from international development. We are interested in the fact that the objectives are at last not only on paper but also in the realization of a common European economic policy in order to create a counter-policy on the market in Asia and a counter-policy on the market in the United States in a globalised world. We are interested that we can also achieve the common objectives of growth and employment in a strong united Europe. That is exactly where I believe criticism must also be made if we are to discuss Lisbon objectives. All of this is always very theoretical. It will be negotiated for a long time, then headlines will be defined and then a “beautiful” decision will be taken. But then nothing happens for a long time. Sometime then, it will be evaluated; even such a famous, well-known word. It is a fact that nothing has actually been implemented. Then the targets will be pushed down again, and it will continue, but it will not really be implemented. This is what we have to do with the Lisbon objectives: There was an interim report in which one has seen and in which it has been stated that the political will is not there to achieve these objectives together, but that in this area, as in others, national interests are simply put before the common interest and that the sum of individual interests is unfortunately less than if one had put the whole in the foreground. The only concrete result is that there are 300 reports on individual national actions, but little as a result. The reality is that the growth that we are hoping for for Europe and, above all, for Austria is going to occur elsewhere, for example in Asia, in the Asian markets, in many ways. There is no longer the raw material supply idea or the idea of copying any technologies, but rather, quite the contrary, already trained qualified workers and managers. There are the corresponding markets in existence. There is also investment in research and development. But you are there – and this is the negative – completely or quite free of any requirements, directives and, above all, of environmental measures, environmental legislation and also of employment legislation. The things that we have in Europe in terms of production are produced in children's labour under heavy environmental stress are then imported cheaply from us and endangering the labour markets in Europe. There needs to be a common political will to define and then implement this objective. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But this is precisely the problem in the European Union, which we have to deal with, that this political will is lacking. It is also lacking in other areas, such as the common foreign policy or the common security policy. It is not the question of how to solve the problems of decolleté history that is important or whether Austria needs to be able to solve the problems of students in Germany with 80 million inhabitants, but the important ones. Questions are how we can create a counter-policy in a globalised world like Europe. The opinion of the citizens is not taken very much into account here, unfortunately also in the People's representation of Europe, in the European Parliament, even there there there are little differences in opinion in the bureaucrats' offices and in the administration. Recently, by a large majority, the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey was supported, without regard to the restrictive principles we would have imagined. I say on behalf of the BZÖ that we strongly support this restrictive attitude of Austria, which we unfortunately take as the only country in the European Union. Many European politicians have said something quite different in their national parliaments, at press conferences, than they are now putting it into practice in the Councils and the Commission. We are not against Turkey. This is not polarization, it is an honest policy. It would have failed, instead of now holding 15 or 20 years of sham negotiations with Turkey, because one knows that on the one hand Turkey cannot meet the criteria and cannot meet the criteria and on the other hand the European Union is not prepared to say: We are quickly making a tailor-made cooperation between the European Union and Turkey. Instead of thinking about alternatives in 15 or 20 years, we are quickly entering into cooperation at the political level, at the economic level, at the security level, but also at the level of human rights and culture. I hope that Austria's view that it is not only a matter of negotiating in one direction, but also of the other, namely the path of cooperation between Turkey and Austria, can still be enforced. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If I've heard here: What does this question of enlargement have to do with growth?, I must say: This has a lot to do with it! I would like the European Union and those responsible in the European Union to deal with the really important things of the citizens of the European Union and not with theoretical objectives, which are clearly known there that they cannot be implemented in the foreseeable future. Employment, Europe's economic location, security policy, these are the important measures to be taken by the European Union in the future! And we must also become more democratic and closer to citizens, because not the citizens are working for Europe and the European Union, but it must be reversed: The European Union has to be there for its citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3160	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. His welcome time is 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3181	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to turn to the very ambitious issue on which Clubobmann Molterer started the debate, namely the issue of growth and employment at European level, and also the question of what policy can be done there. Of course, I would also like to join a few examples of national competences and thus also of Austrian orientations in policy fields. I really think this issue is very ambitious and more than right, and it is also good if it is the first one on the agenda here. Klubobmann Molterer even spoke expressly of “full employment”. I also think it is welcome if the terms are again highlighted in this direction. Now, when we start with the European level, we have the problem that target formulations are primarily carried out with regard to the so-called Lisbon process. - So far, so good. At the level of action, however, there are very serious problems. I now find the luxury of thinking about why this must also be in such a form as the European Union and what can be done about it. I would like to say to the objectives of full employment or, for example, to the sub-targets formulated, to all the reports we have: If one wanted to look at it maliciously, one would have to think that this is a collection of headlines. We've heard a lot of things. Even the so-called guidelines are still descriptions of more or less attainable intermediate targets. But at the level of action this is much more difficult, and this also has its good reason: The European Union is not an association such as the United States of America, for example, where, in principle, the very large areas of policy are being developed across the United States as a whole. There are many national and national differences, but far from the way we find them in the European Union. If we currently have 25 governments that have come about democratically, but which are usually not all of the same ideological foundation, then we simply have the problem that there are those who – I try to formulate this as neutrally as possible – believe that it makes more sense to achieve the full employment goal and also growth as a prerequisite to rely on public investment, and that there are others who say again: No, the state is at all part of the evil, at least if it intervenes too much in the economy! That's how it's formulated there. But if it is true that we always have at least ten governments in one corner and 15 in the other, possibly vice versa, then we can already see how difficult the harmonisation of economic policies at European level must be. That is why the paper produced in the description of measures is always relatively thin, because the 25 Heads of Government or the Council of Ministers should agree on this without further delay. Now one would think that this would have to lead – not necessarily – to a European central state if the analysis was correct. However, it is worth noting that, for example, the European Parliament, in the context of the framework, will be able to give more competence at the level of action. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm pretty sure this will be controversial. But there could be another way out. There is not only a European tradition, not only from the cultural point of view of the evening country and from the point of view of what we always call to ourselves in a beautiful way, but there is also a tradition in economic and social policy. Now the question is: Are we more competitive with the so-called tiger states or with the United States, if we imitate what is supposed to lead to success there – but the chain of action should also be proved – or do we rely on what has been developed for the whole world for many years? I would prefer the latter for this reason. The question is: A solidarity state, but now at European level, which only has to coordinate itself accordingly – that will be the task – or deregulation, deregulation, deregulation, deregulation, reduction of the state budget, no public investment? That is exactly the core of the debate! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we can't agree, because there's always going to be some and there, then I'd take a bond there once after we can't throw anything over the board overnight, and of course we shouldn't, like we Greens mean, and put on this model. I don't want anyone to think he wants to say good-bye. But if we keep on doing these rhetorical flakes: The state is a bad businessman! or: The less taxes and taxes, the better! to hear, I ask you: How, for example, do we want to clean up the school emergency if we are to remove fewer and less taxes? And so on and so on. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It may be that once again one has to say unpopular things in this context. You also have to confess. I recognise, however, that the fundamental economic and ideological differences are not something that would be objectionable in politics. But that is why I would borrow there, which has now been the history of Europe for decades, and I would put it there. In this context, of course, it makes a certain sense to consider the question: What then is the coordinated European economic and financial policy? Then it turns out suddenly – and after the painful debate on the Stability and Growth Pact, similar in the EU budget policy is now evident – that, even if it sounds unpopular, it would be much more sensible to transfer some tenth of gross domestic product more into the European budget if only the right things were to be financed there. There too we should meet. And so to speak, we cannot begin much more with our agitation, state phobia and the like, because, in the example of Austria, it would show that with a few tenths more budget then, if things were to be used as well as the ÖVP prefers, Austria would have much more growth and, in our common view, employment impulses. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Then we could lean back, move a little less populist through the countries and yet come to something I mean. That must be the meaning of these events here. I now come to the Austrian level in this context, where a few things can actually be compared in the package of measures. I am forwarding that I will not now expressly refer to the World Economic Forum report, where Austria, from 17 to 21st, will be referring to the World Economic Forum report. Space slipped back. Since, elsewhere, we always mention that these types of rankings, which are made with manager surveys and otherwise, are not at all suitable to identify real positions accordingly, I do not want to do so either. But you should have one. think that – and this has already been mentioned today – countries with much higher or at least equal tax and tax ratios, which sounds so technical and which means only how much we want to jointly organise solidarity about state decisions, about the state budget, whether the school is private, whether it is public and so on, so to speak. There should be a little to think that competition models between states can obviously also work in a different direction than you accept prima vista. I therefore believe that we cannot leave the following example out entirely from the current Austrian debate: If you do not want to recognize that we are actually focusing on an educational emergency, you have quite some knowledge problems. From this perspective, we should, in turn, conclude that it is very reasonable for public investment to be made. So it is not up to the level of the state budget, but it depends on what you do with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3303	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. Requested time: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3324	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I think it's important to ask: What was it like ten years ago? Where are we today? What else do we need to do to ensure that we can live up to this Europe, but also in freedom and peace? It is, of course, important to give people work and employment. As a representative of a professional group, which, with great dissatisfaction, with great caution, has also taken up this European challenge with great uncertainty, I ask the question: What has brought this great challenge of European integration to rural people, farmers and rural people? It has actually put us in programmes of safety and planning and calculability, in rural development programmes, where the farmers and the organic farmers, where all the farmers have also received appropriate safety, are safe for a period of five to six years. We were also willing to take part in changes, such as in the Agenda 2000 where Austria was really leading and took a step-maker role to get from production premiums to premiums with a high social acceptance. At that time, if I remember correctly, Willi Molterer and Wolfgang Schüssel have already expressed the idea of a company-size recession. Three years later we took part in a reform of the common agricultural policy, where we said: Away from the premiums for cattle, to the premiums for farmers, to ecological programmes, to programmes that benefit rural development as a whole! I'll tell you: This is also reflected in the position of the WTO negotiations in the EU position. For the first time, there is a position for the WTO negotiations, where there is protection and security for Austria, where we talk about such elements as sustainability, appropriate food hygiene, animal welfare standards, environmental standards and more. We must continue this path. Then we can live well with this Europe and then we can experience Europe when we know what we are doing nationally. I think we have given good answers from a national point of view: We have decided on economic growth packages and business packages. We have implemented a tax reform that has contributed to ensuring an economic location where we can say: 100 more jobs per day in Austria! – In Germany, there are 1 000 jobs less. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true at all! There you have wrong data!]] Mr Matznetter, how many cars were produced in Styria in 1994? 7,000. Today, 200 000 cars are produced in Styria – thanks to the European Union and thanks to Waltraud Klasnic! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria, for example, 300,000 people are employed in the value chain of wood. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What does Klasnic have to do with Europe?]] Business location security in Austria! 300 000 people in the cluster of value added wood, with a production value of € 10 billion! Think of the paper industry! Think of the wood processing industry! Think of the saw industry! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Wooden!]] Here we have done good work. And we'll continue this work. We have a foundation, so I ask you, also for the future – because my time is getting scarce –: [[Rejoicing and calling at the SPÖ:Thank God!]] What to do? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – When speaking here at this speaker's desk! [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Otherwise we will give the tone in Austria for even longer, which you, my lords of the left half of the empire, can be sure of! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know what we are doing, but you are not, ladies and gentlemen. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This shows, for example, the safeguarding of rural development programmes, because if one wants to take away 50 percent of the farmers, the environmental farmers, the organic farmers, then he does not know what he is doing. Mr. Gusenbauer, correct your course! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... Raiffeisen!]] We want to secure these programmes. We want to use new markets, example: Biomass – and not that a Social-Democrat underlies us, we wanted to continue to depend on the oil sheikh from Arabia in the energy supply, and says: When we use biomass, the farmers are the new oil sheikh! – Yes, as a new oil sheikh, the farmers are right because it is about protecting work and the environment in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And we also want to be comprehensible for our consumers, including in our production. [[Abg. Oillinger: We would like them too!]] What we want is – and we are on the best way: Away from the country escape, to a longing for land that we should all experience together!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3469	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. Requested time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3501	Mr President. Mrs Sozialminister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Grillitsch spares me, in particular, to look at his comments, and he has summarized it himself: Time is coming to an end! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: For you she ends the political work!]] It is clear, Mr Grillitsch, that this is also due to the German Chancellor's last night's nervousness. It is a shame that he has not taken the opportunity today to apologize for words such as “insanity ideas ” and other things. That'd show that he's got a stand-up and morals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you do not need to copy the excitement of the Federal Chancellor: It won't be better, neither this Sunday nor next Sunday nor on 23. October next year. It won't be better! Today, however, Europe is the subject of our discussion. And there is something, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, to the You should confess: A success model was Europe from the end of the Second World War, but this success model was founded on several pillars. One of these was – and I may mention Ludwig Erhard at this point – an opportunity for you, too, to welcome the fact that he built up the German economic miracle, on something which was also praised in our country and especially by the ÖVP as a social market economy – the Rhenish model of capitalism. That was a success model. The second part of Europe’s success model was the European social and welfare state – and this is what European social democracy stands for, not only in the “red Vienna”, as already shown, but in many countries. It ranges from housing and school construction to health, all that was all around it. Every year, people felt that they shared in economic growth that they had a better life. And we should stand because this model was one of the most successful in the history of the economy! At that time unemployment was not a problem. Since when is she? – Since Mrs Maggie Thatcher put England in a state that one could not even drive the railway there, that one has waited four years for a pacemaker. This neoliberalism, which was then invading our continent, has provided us with what we are now experiencing as a crisis in Europe. And then there was a Wolfgang Schüssel, who joined the slogan “More private, less state”. What's the result for the people? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Deregulation and privatisation! [[Call to the ÖVP:The result is better...!]] The ladies and gentlemen who watch us today feel it in their own pocket of money. It's all getting more expensive, there's a worse supply, the SMEs are dying away from us, namely the crafts, the commercials. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Tell the Gitti Ederer! Who did that?]] [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman:Other!]] We have a situation in Europe in which we do not get out of the scourge of unemployment. And then the EIA comes to an end five minutes ago, because there are elections next year, and it seems that just have to do the opposite of its previous policy. They have led neoliberal politics to this country by the government parties. They've ruined everything there is. You've made sure we have the highest price. They have provided a record unemployment. And we've got a plowing peak. That's the record of this government bowl! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So today you come up with a motion for a resolution to list exactly what you have so far “forgetted” about. You have forgotten to make a sufficient infrastructure initiative. [[Abg. Grill: You have no idea what you're talking about!]] – Mr Grillitsch, listen carefully! You forgot in your speech, I'll tell you your own request. - Too little! They want to do something for the labour market and employment, but it is too little! [[Abg. Grill: Kasperltheater!]] I put in place a motion for a resolution which we – and I would like to explain to him in the broad outlines, Mr President – demand an infrastructure offensive that goes beyond the one we have so far, as well as a comprehensive repair of the tax reform that brings mass purchasing power, and, for us, because for SMEs, at last, an investment advantage, because companies are investing less and less in the country, and that is, fewer jobs, more unemployment. We also call for an active labour market policy that goes beyond € 284 million from yesterday. I have written only 215 million here because your measures will be too late and the full amount will not be applicable next year. There is also a need to improve the integration of women into the labour market, better vocational training, a reduction in seasonal quotas, the use of transitional periods for the labour market and an initiative against tax dumping, because only when public funds are arranged is there a proper economic policy. [[Abg. Hornek: What have you done in the last 50 years?]] They do not leave behind proper finances, bad data and record unemployment! That is enough, I believe, for the country and for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3652	Mr Matznetter has just explained in his broad outlines and according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to Members for the distribution of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4083	The next speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4104	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and at home in front of the screens! My previous speakers showed it: There is a lot of positive and negative discussion about this European Union. From the government side, it was tried to talk more about Europe, the SPÖ preferred to discuss and polemise national policies. I think the voters at home will take a picture of it, a picture of which agenda item is for discussion and what content you give it to. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Grillisch!]] Positive: There are many joint initiatives in Europe, such as the expansion of infrastructure, the fight against international crime and other things, but – and we agree here – there is a lot of negative. There are many things we need to change, for example, when I look at the debate on genetic engineering, when I look at the bureaucracy in and out of Brussels, for which nobody actually understands and which the citizen rightly doubts. The citizen is concerned, and all of us who are on the road outside – whether in the campaign or in private talks – simply notice that the concern prevails in the mood and that there is a need for action. Today is to be the first day to bring light into the dark. Klubobmann Molterer has repeatedly spoken of a strong Europe, as has Mr Bundeskanzler. In my opinion and, as I believe, in the opinion of our group, we should also talk much more about an open Europe. We should talk about getting closer to the citizen, making it more human, and making it more understandable. 80 000 regulations, 80 000 regulations! Those who are outside the people will notice that it is this concern, which predominates that people are not, in fact, primarily looking for the strong Europe as a counter-police to America or as a counter-pollution to the so-called tiger states, but they are looking for a Europe that gives them answers, answers to questions that they themselves cannot answer. This negative attitude, which has also been noted and felt in participation in the last European election – President Khol has referred to it – is, I believe, an expression of these problems and shows us that the need for action can not only be resolved here in the High House with discussions, with colorful colors in front of the speaker's desk and before the Bureau, but also that there are current issues that intensify this, I am thinking only of the negative speakers, for example, in France or the failed financial package – that has already been discussed – or also of the planned accession negotiations with Turkey. Of course, we can take the floor here, we can polemise, we can discuss how we want to do it differently, but we are also required to actually put these actions into practice. The government's attitude to remain restrictive, to put Austria ahead of Europe in these negotiations, first the homework in the country, then the homework in Europe, and to try to make enlargements in such a way that they can work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Jobs, economic growth – today’s issue. I would like to take up a specific example in which, I believe, we see how important it is to respond and act. If you look at a large construction site in Carinthia today, such as the expansion of the Tauern motorway, if you pass such a 10 km construction site, you only meet German trucks, you see only foreign companies there! This is something that people do not understand, they shake their heads without understanding and ask: Why don't Carinthian companies work here? Why don't Austrian companies work here? I believe that this awarding regulation, which we are also being overshadowed by Brussels, should perhaps have the courage to try to counteract these awarding regulations at national level and thus contribute to the fact that the local entrepreneurs, the local businesses, the small and medium-sized industries – those people who pay taxes here at our disposal here are building their homes in this so often stressed “rural space” here, that they work on these construction sites rather than that German trucks drive. [[Abg. Sburny: What does it mean to be “studded over ”? That is 1 : 1 was implemented by the government that decided to do so! You're pretending you don't have anything to do with it!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have just arrived in 1st place. Half-year 2006 a chance. Austria will take over the Presidency in the European Union, Austria will be able to cooperate here. And we need to take advantage of this historic opportunity! It's a chance to change things, it's also the opportunity to improve things. It will not be possible to change the EU in half a year, but we can jointly contribute in many areas to something going forward. From genetic engineering to budgetary policy, we will have the opportunity, it will be up to us to ensure that we move forward that this Europe becomes a Europe closer to the citizen, more friendly, more understandable and above all a Europe worthy of human consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4168	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. The remainder of her group's speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4190	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and here in the House! Mr Scheuch, you already know that what you have complained about and what is supposed to overshadow the EU is things that this Federal Government does not only decide, but that its scope, which is always present in such directives, is not exploited by us as the only state in the EU. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I am surprised that you do not say “woman” to me!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government has overshadowed you – and as far as I know, your party is already in the Federal Government. With regard to employment, the economy and growth, we may be somewhat slightly concerned about our lips, and we do not always consider that there has been a balance between the three factors in the EU – and even today this balance is a little precarious. We must, at least on the part of the Greens, always have an eye in EU development to ensure that not certain growth interests dominate others that not employment interests are too short or growth models that are less employment relevant. We need to stress this demand that the EU should be not just an economic union, but also an employment and social union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To be honest, I am now more optimistic about the EU than the Federal Government is. What we have heard from Chancellor Schüssel today builds on recipes that I thought we had done 50, 60 years ago. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's what you can remember?]] [[Abg. Großruck: You have a long memory!]] Economy and growth stimulate, create jobs – through the Brenner Base Tunnel, which is the recipe of this government, shortened. That, ladies and gentlemen, is too little! A very specific objective that the EU sets out in the Lisbon Strategy – including repeatedly in March in the EU Council – is to make good use of human capital and increase the employment and employment rates of both men and women. What does that mean? I am now, especially for colleagues Scheuch and colleagues Grillitsch – both of them no longer present, but for their colleagues, they will certainly be able to tell them – the following picture: Imagine – this is a popular picture at the ÖVP around this season – that you have a harvest, so you have a certain task to pick up growth and wealth. For this, you have 20 people available, but you decide to take now only ten of those who should work; the others should sit at home and do whatever. – That is the strategy you have in employment policy in Austria. They use male labour potential half-way – and even there no longer as it would be desirable in view of unemployment development – but when it comes to the potential of women, you say – salopp formulated: [[Abg. Ellmauer: We have the highest female employment rate in Europe!]] That's us. [[Abg. Neudeck: You claim that! But you've never proved it before!]] I've got a lot of numbers on this, and you're just sure you're always going to study this very well: Women's employment has increased on average by 4.5% in the EU between 1995 and 2003, in some countries by far more than 10 percent, and only in one EU-15 country has this figure fallen, there has been a negative trend. [[Abg. Hornek: So a self-made statistics!]] Guess! In Austria! Your policy, your government says: Well, women's employment is not an issue for us! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That's the same with Matznetter, too,...!]] The ranking of the World Economic Forum, which measures and compares the competitiveness, economic power of the states and has already been mentioned today, shows that in the top 10 Scandinavian countries are strongly dominated, i.e. those states which, as I think, do not happen to have a very high proportion of women's employment, where they work and have families and children for men and women alike, are equally normal and natural. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Economic programme in Vienna!]] In this relationship, we have been limping for decades in Austria, and I can only ask you: At last, think about your policy on the issue of equality – and be it from the economic point of view! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another comment on equality policy itself: It has been and has been the EU's pacemaker for gender equality on the labour market and in other areas of life – I mention only gender mainstreaming or gender budgets, something that we should actually implement in Austria since 1995. However, there is also a development in the EU that I find worrying. In the context of the re-budgeting for the period from 2007 to 2013, the current draft, which is most likely to be continued only during the EU Presidency of Austria – at least we appreciate this – sees a reduction in the budget for equality policy, a re-programming, that is, a summary of now existing, proven programmes and projects in a super-pot, i.e. the resolution of many projects; instead, there is a new track under the title Progress, for which a budget of around €630 million is planned, but of which only 8 percent is to be spent on equality policies. This corresponds to a reduction in resources for equality projects, for equality between men and women in the labour market, by around half; not by a small amount, but by about half. On the other hand, the European Parliament has already protested and called for at least 12 percent. I think it should be more, and I also think that Austria in particular is required to pick up equality policy in its own country in order to ensure that the Austrian Presidency does not take a step back in Europe's equality policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4348	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. The Group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes, your speaking time, honourable Member: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4370	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! The EU has developed further! Mrs Weinzinger can certainly remember very well that at the beginning of the EU the issue of peacekeeping was the objective to be achieved through a large common economic single market. Today, we are also discussing the issues of employment. I am convinced that the Lisbon process set up in 2000 with the guiding principles of growth, employment, the environment and social cohesion has its qualities – what we now need – is the political will, a new optimism and also the willingness of all EU 25 partners to take up the challenge of global competition together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party sees itself as the European Party, and therefore we are very serious about the discussion by not concealing those points either, not keeping behind the mountain with those issues that are difficult, such as the emotional mood on the one hand, on the other hand, of course the economy. The European economic engine has begun to stutter. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the euro area, we have a growth of 1.6 percent, an EU-wide increase of 2 percent. Although the largest economy in Europe, Germany, has a positive growth rate of 0.8 percent, this is very, very modest and which may also be related to the German government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Unemployment has increased across Europe in recent years and is 8.8 percent in the euro area. Unfortunately, Germany still raised 1 percent. Austria is really well placed in the European market, both in terms of growth and in terms of unemployment; with 4.8 percent in 2004, we had the second lowest unemployment rate in Europe. At this point, a short thought, an information on youth unemployment, colleague Van der Bellen: 18 percent across Europe. Finland, which you always hold out to us as the educational country bad, has a youth unemployment of 27.5 percent, Austria a figure of 8.6 percent. I'm convinced Of which, on the one hand, this is related to our excellent education policy and, in particular, to our higher vocational education school, these make the students fit for the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we must not rest on this balance sheet, and of course it is not our style to make sustainable comparisons, so we are not going further, even we are part of Europe. The fact is that we have to face this growth problem because these 2% EU economic growth between Asia and America is not enough. China: 9.5 percent – in view of this, Europe really threatens to lose the connection and become a Jurassic Park in global competition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] In the same way, Mr Matznetter, as if Europe were going to take an example in Vienna: Standstill and absolute adoption of the political will to design! In recent years, 35 000 jobs have been lost in Vienna and 130 000 jobs have been added to it throughout Austria. - So much about your concepts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of March this year, the European Council took a very detailed look at the resurgence of the Lisbon process. Based on the Commission's recommendations and also the Wim-Kok report, conclusions have been reached that we should be discussing today. “Human Capital” – Mr Van der Bellen, you have already mentioned this today –: The investment in people, in people's knowledge, that's what Europe and Austria can do in the future. We need to make knowledge more valuable. We must invest in research and innovation. “Knowledge and innovation – drivers for sustainable growth”, says the European Council, titled the section on research and development. Austria has become an F&E quota of 3 percent and has made a huge step forward in the last five years under this Federal Government. We will succeed in coming to the top 5 of Europe. In recent weeks, Commissioner Vivian Reding has also chosen 267 ICT projects, information – communication – technology, which must be promoted. More than € 1 billion is available to Brussels. It is precisely about these new fields of the future in the economy: Information, communication, technology, biotechnology, and, of course, the creative economy. You think of design, architecture, advertising. These are the hope fields of tomorrow. It is now up to the 7th. Research framework programme to be adopted quickly. We encourage our Lady Minister to try to do so and to work to ensure that this Framework Programme of Research is adopted as quickly as possible so that our university institutions and non-university institutions can have equal access to this money and participate in this programme. SMEs are also important in this context. They know that SMEs are the backbone of our economy. It is important to establish a link between small and micro-enterprises and universities so that new products and new services can be developed together. I am convinced that it can succeed. It concerns all of us, and I say: On new actions for a common Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4479	The next item is Mrs Bures. Total residence time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4500	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, when you spoke today, I was very glad that you did not go into verbal derailments again in your statements, as yesterday. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – An excuse is still outstanding, I see it that way. But I was not very glad, Mr Chancellor, that you have again proved today that you are refusing realities, namely realities such as expectations that the Austrians have in their federal government, but also in the European Union. The expectation of the Austrians in the European Union is that this is not only an economic union but also a social union. The Austrians want a people's Europe and not a group Europe. Most people also want Europe to deepen and strengthen itself now, not that there are further enlargements within the European Union. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I know you're ruling across the heads of the population, so you don't know what people want. Most people want a social Europe in which the fight against unemployment is a top priority, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No socialist Europe!]] They negate the expectations of people in their domestic policies and negate them in European policy. This federal government does not fulfil these expectations, therefore it does not need to be surprised that so many people in the European Union are very critical of meeting them with high skepticism. Neither the Austrian Government nor the European Union has the highest priority of combating unemployment and increasing economic growth! Federal Chancellor! Mr Molterer said today that the criticism of the European Union was also due to the fact that many things are being postponed to Europe, but they are under national responsibility. – This is an accusation that you have to address, above all, against you. They are constantly shifting responsibility to globalisation, to Europe and are unfortunately not aware of your own responsibility, which you have here in Austria. This is the problem we are facing! We can take a look at it: In Luxembourg we have the highest public investment and therefore the highest employment growth. Austria is 25th with public investment. Job. That means: Finally, for Austria, that means Austria is the country that has the lowest growth in jobs! All the other 24 EU countries are doing better than you are! [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: That is not true, Mrs Colleague!]] In the last five years, unemployment has been in Austria – this is your responsibility, Federal Minister Bartenstein! – increased massively. In other, a total of 17 EU countries, unemployment has fallen over the last five years. – Only by your policy will unemployment rise, especially youth unemployment! The job guarantees are useless. The Federal Chancellor spoke about training guarantee, job guarantee for every young person. Do you know how many young people in Austria do not have a job? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Too many!]] 50 000 people aged 24 and 25 do not have a job because of your wrong priorities and policies! 200 times you can fill this house with unemployed young people – but here you give grueling words of yourself and make empty promises. The young people in our country have nothing of that! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] So that you, Minister Bartenstein, do not say that this is, as it were, just the criticism of the opposition, I will read to you the headlines of today's newspapers on your economic policy: ‘Standard’: ‘Bader Note for Austria’ means ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’: ‘Austria loses strength’ ‘The press’ means: ‘Austrian competitiveness’ means ‘Kurier’: “Austria is taking place internationally on place 21” That's your balance sheet, and that's sad, ladies and gentlemen, because it could be better. Austria has earned a better policy than you are pursuing here. Austria is a country that has earned more wealth, a country in which there is no tax reform, through which major corporations – Mr Bartenstein or Mr Prinzhorn – pay less taxes than a middle-sized employee in his company, but in which there is to be social justice in which there is to be investment in which there is to be purchasing power and in which there is something like distribution policy justice. [[Abg. Grill: You have no idea what you're talking about!]] [[Abg. Grill: Job destroyer Number 1, the SPÖ!]] A policy by which the poor in the country become poorer, the rich richer and the middle class is getting smaller, that is a policy that is rejected by the majority of Austrians – in Europe as well as in Austria. Therefore, you will also be chosen because Austria has earned something better!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4633	The next item is the speech by Mrs Rosenkranz. 4 minutes Total residence time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4655	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Employment needs growth and growth needs Europe, so the clubman of the ÖVP has launched this debate. We know this, ladies and gentlemen, that you are following the debate in front of the television screens. This was also the case in 1994 when the foreign exchange was advertised for EU accession. This Parliament is pleased by a very rich President, who can well be quoted. O-Ton Khol last week: “Nothing in politics is as dangerous as being forbidden by its own reproach”. – For that not to happen, it is quite good to occasionally review the political messages on reality. The fact is that in a time comparison between 1994 and 2004, unemployment – with small collapses and outbreaks – has steadily increased. At least if one does not want to say that it would have something to do with accession, this leaves the conclusion that the concepts of preventing unemployment were not very successful in the EU. In this context, a word on Turkey: On the table is only the request for full entry, and this will greatly aggravate and increase immigration into our labour market. That means: Since this decision needs to be taken unanimously, every politician voting there bears a real responsibility. But back to the present. Have you noticed that not only the unemployment rate increases continuously, but also the number of employees? In 2004: 10,000 unemployed more than, 30,000 more workers – a seemingly contradictory finding, which cannot only be explained by splitting into minor jobs – which are not at all there. You can understand this if you take another code into account. According to statistics in Australia, we had a migration of 60,000 people in the same period last year; the officially established immigration rates do not have to do with the new applications in the Federal Republic of Germany covered by the Austria statistics. You seem to have noticed it, because I have just learned from the SPÖs that it is also about not only creating employment but also protecting the labour market, and protecting it is a matter of preserving it primarily for domestic workers. – This is a good approach, a realistic approach, which, for example, has also called for ex-Federal Chancellor Schmidt more strongly in the Federal Republic of Germany; to this man you should focus on, he has been successful for a long time and for a long time what you are looking for for for for your chairman. But why did you do the opposite, just a few weeks ago, when at the last meeting of the National Council in July, not only did we abandon the incentives under the Asylum Act to come to us – beyond the grounds of flight – but instead we created new massive incentives in the Foreign Employment Act to get here. They must be consistent. If you reconcile your speeches and your actions, you will get the problem under control. You also have to decide: If you want to represent the interests of workers efficiently and effectively, then you will have to slaughter the holy cow “immigration” – you will not come around!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4703	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Molterer, Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on the Austrian reform programme for growth and employment. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this motion for a resolution an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, this resolution is accepted. (E 140.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the disastrous labour market situation in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer is not present in the hall.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your approval to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, so this request is rejected. [[11:18:06]] 2. Point Service Directive – Internal Market on the back of the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises and workers?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4775	We now come to the subject area: Service Directive – Internal Market on the back of the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises and workers? I give the floor to Mr Deputies as the founder. According to § 74b para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4800	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors in front of the TV screens at home and here in the gallery! They have just been able to experience that this House has been dealing with Europe, jobs, growth and economic policy, and I believe that there is no better timing than talking about a detail of this European economic, employment and growth policy, namely the Services Directive. We can make sure that we take what has just been heard seriously when it comes to implementing the so-called Services Directive. If the Federal Chancellor recently said here in the House, it was about defending and safeguarding the European model of life, about social responsibility when other speakers said: We want to maintain the balance between business and social affairs!, then, ladies and gentlemen, I must say: That is why we are calling on the Services Directive to implement it. Since 2000, Europe has set itself the goal of becoming the most knowledge-based, competitive region, in particular to further research and development and to become the best continent in the world. On the basis of the interim reports, we know that this objective is correct, but that the responsibility for achieving this objective in Europe is almost not realized at all. We must therefore make every effort if what we ourselves have decided is actually to be implemented. What about the Services Directive? – It contains sentences in which we – we MEPs too! – normally have to read what is hidden behind it. These are just the opinions of the relevant Employment Committee and the Economic Committee. [[the speaker shall present written documents]] The Services Directive is made up of so much paper. I invite everyone to read these statements and to recognize the contexts. I'm trying to say that in simple words. It is simply about the fact that employers, businesses and workers in all the countries of the European Union should be able to work, offer their services and not be prevented from doing so by bureaucratic barriers. - So far, so good! That would in itself be a positive sentence. But why are the 25 states of the European Union unable to talk about the coordination and harmonisation of these standards? This is where the European Commission is going, and the representatives of the States are going a completely different way. You mean that's a lot too complicated, and you say, Why should we look at how Lithuania's legislation fits into Austria's legislation? Why should we look at how Slovakia's legislation fits into Finland's legislation? We are making a new proposal: the country of origin principle! It would be quite exciting if the Austrian Federal Government were to carry out the task of linking the television spot concerning the barber shop with this service directive. The hairdresser would probably stop talking about how prosperity continues to grow, but she would say: Wait, it's my job too! [[Abg. Oillingers: They stop the haircut right away!]] Why, then, can anyone work under unfair conditions of competition from other EU countries here in Austria without regard to my own living situation? – This would be an exciting television spot, and so the Federal Government would bring Europe closer to the citizens with a life situation that can be understood, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The country of origin principle does not mean harmonisation – it is too complicated to be established by the European Union. It is not a question of maintaining our legal standards, of taking the environmental standards, of the labour, of the wage legislation seriously, for example the issue of co-determination, nor of taking the issue of public services into account accordingly, but of ensuring that, in the future, there is freedom to provide services, but of 25 different rules. Many then call the same thing: Mr President, there is no excitement, there is the sentencing directive! – Will the Send Directive meet these requirements? Is there, in fact, – again a new technical concept – the fact that Austrian labour law is to be applied in all employments in Austria? – This is not the case, because the Entendment Directive does not lift undue contractual clauses as we experience them. It was just one example: KIAB, the rapid intervention force, which ensures that non-illegally engaged non-social dumping takes place. The Directive does not regulate compensation for damages, it does not regulate the question of the changeover, it does not regulate the issue of compensation, the protection of termination or the grounds for dismissal. We are concerned that free service must take place at fair conditions of competition – therefore a clear rejection of the country of origin principle. There the “fearest” is required: How will Austrian MEPs vote? How will the Austrian Federal Government vote? The votes shall be held in all the institutions in October. We are concerned that the Services Directive does not lead to social dumping or regulation. Therefore, the very specific question to the Federal Minister, to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, because they are then in the bodies that have to decide on it. Let us take a closer look at Article 25 of the Services Directive! The country, for example Austria, must not require the service provider, but also the workers employed there, to submit an entry permit, an exit permit, a residence permit, a work permit. I am then looking at how the Austrian Federal Government, for example, demands the Italian Government: Please tell us if...! – Could a case like that happen in Linz, where Korean workers were employed with less than € 2 per hour, be persecuted at all? Indeed, it is not the rules of the State in which this happens, but the country of origin principle must be based on the rules of the State from which the “polluter” comes. It is quite exciting how, for example, the Advocate General of the European Union will deal with the case in Germany. But all these are only highlights that are present there or there. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the Services Directive, we are not concerned – I have already said it – with making this impossible, but fair standards, fair conditions must be put in the foreground. The European Council in March of this year, including in the light of the vote on the EU Constitution, the voting defeats in the Netherlands and France: Wait, we have to be more careful! Yesterday, we heard this in Strasbourg, too – and the Foreign Minister was present there too – namely: We want to listen, look at the populace and act on it! I ask you: What does this action mean, if, for example, in March – Mr Bundeskanzler – you were involved in it – the European Council decides that, in the light of the current debate on the Services Directive, the present version of the proposal for a directive does not fully satisfy the requirements and that the European Council therefore calls for all efforts to be made within the framework of the legislative process so that a broad consensus can be reached that meets these objectives? – That was in March. In July, the Employment Committee agreed with this line and delivered an opinion. ==References== It was the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the Commission heard: Why change the directive if the basic draft is in order anyway? Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot be the future Europe for which we all advertise, for which we all stand, that, because one does not face the challenge of conforming the standards, one simply says: We're doing the country of origin principle, it's going to be kind of a deal! - It doesn't sort of take care of it. We need criteria similar to those for the euro – as well as twelve states agreed on it – that we want to go through with which we all adhere. It cannot be the goal to work with minimum standards. Our objective is a yes to freedom of services, not a country of origin. And I'm asking you: Who prevents us from asking the European Union if there are problems with the authority: In every country, let us make a “one-stop shop” where all legislation can be coordinated!Unknown term type: "%s".? We are concerned with safeguarding legal certainty for consumers. We are concerned, especially for the small-scale structure – we are thinking about the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria!; more than 80 percent have less than ten employees – how firms can really work fair under such competitive conditions. - I think that's completely wrong. It is also a question of excluding the general services, but above all the maintenance and extension of labour and wage law must be highlighted. I do not want to have cases like in Linz, where Koreans are paid up to € 2 per hour. A new case has now appeared in Styria, where Thai workers work under similar conditions. We cannot need that in our country – therefore, a yes to our proposals, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4862	Mr Bartenstein spoke on the presentation of an introductory opinion. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4884	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr President, the case in Linz concerning Korean and Indonesian workers is and remains illegal, the Send Directive provides for this. Austria, for example, has translated it very far into Austrian law, unlike Germany. In Austria, no one is allowed to be paid under the collective agreement. This is and remains illegal. You know that, too. That's where we're well prepared. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Mr Vergestnich, asked for a “ever-ever” and he is right in two respects: of course, in the one thing that you have done – and here we have quite identical goals – but also in the other, namely: Do we create freedom to provide services in Europe and thus create one of the most important growth and employment conditions we currently have?- Oh, my God! Because, hand at heart: At present, we have only partially realized the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union: Free movement of persons: yes; free movement of goods: for the most part; Free movement of services: only in part, as well as in finance. There are many obstacles, especially in the field of services, as Kok also noted in his report – Kok, formerly a leading trade unionist, then Dutch Prime Minister. Together with President Verzellnich and eleven other experts, Wim Kok has written this report and said, among other things, that today's level of trade in services within Europe is lower than that of ten years ago. So the increase is not too slow, Mr President, because this level is even lower than that which existed ten years ago. That is why we must act there, which is an important prerequisite for economic, growth and employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I have chosen, ladies and gentlemen, some examples of what there are in fact obstacles to the provision of services, some of which are almost absurd. Examples: Germany knows more severe penalties for foreigners in sub-areas. Electricians may only operate in another Member State if they are certified at the local e- plant. Tourist guides – this also applies to Austria – need local approval, otherwise they may not take action. Craftsmen need to use cars nationally to transport their tools there and there – and much more. That is why, and I believe that we all agree, as a top priority in the European Union's efforts to increase growth and employment, we need a speedy implementation of the freedom to provide services. You, Mr Vergestnitsch, have indeed contributed to this coke report that the conditions should be set by the end of 2005. [[Abg. Verbatim: Follow-up, Minister of State!]] We recognise that we have a common objective and that we are striving to implement it as quickly as possible. The objective is therefore uniform and clear; only the way there is still to be discussed. To illustrate the importance of this: Today, 70 percent of the total value added in Europe is services – and no longer goods and goods. We also need to see that it is precisely large enterprises – and I am saying this now in relation to the question of this part of the European day – that can be addressed so to speak, but not smaller ones, because they must work in other markets. Freedom to provide services in Europe is therefore also something that is medium-sized, but of course something that is consumer-friendly and therefore labour-friendly, because it creates more competition in this important area, better quality and, in general, lower prices. This also benefits consumers and employees. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In a 2003 report, the EU Commission noted that 2.5 million jobs have been created in ten years through the slow yet previous harmonisation of the internal market, essentially in the freight sector. Another Commission report states that the implementation of the Services Directive – as it will always be – could create another 600,000 jobs in the middle of a discussion. Let me say the following: As a service country, Austria is better than the average; we have a surplus of services: We export € 40 billion to services per year; We have a surplus of €1.6 billion in this area. It is therefore even more important for us than for others to ensure that freedom of services is made as quickly and as properly as possible in Europe. [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr. Federal Minister! This is a dangerous threat!]] Now on the procedure, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal by the EU Commission – by the same token as the Green and Social Democratic Commissioners – has been on the table since 2004. The country of origin principle is the principle of construction, and I believe that this principle of construction should not be deduced. Harmonization as a possible alternative procedure was probably a shift on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, Mr President Vergestnitsch. [[Call the SPÖ: Why?]] But now to a series of “Buters”. It is important to recognise, as it were, this triangle that exists, a triangle consisting of the Services Directive, the Entendment Directive – by the way, with the principle of the objective country principle as a building principle – and the third of the Professional Recognition Directive. Mr President, the professional recognition directive has just been adopted and will be published in the near future, in turn with the country of origin principle as a building principle. Experts believe that the Services Directive, as it is now on the table, is not much more and not much less than the translation of ECJ law. Some of the abuses I have addressed are likely to be successful at the ECJ. ==References== In October, the committee, which is truly responsible, will deal with this: internal market and competition. Everything else: good and beautiful, but there the cubes fall. When it comes to the first reading, we do not know very well that this could be delayed; therefore, the Commission's response could also shift. This can be at the end of this year, but this can also fall into the middle of our EU Presidency. We'll see. It is no wonder, ladies and gentlemen, that there are not yet less than 1,000 amendments on this subject. In concrete terms and in conclusion: What do we want? . I believe that there should be a great deal of consensus on improving the draft Services Directive, which is on the table. [[Abg. Oils: Fear, I'm not!]] We want and I want exceptions to the sensitive area of so-called general care. Translating mainly for the viewers on television: in the field of health and social affairs. In parentheses: This has nothing to do with general care, but we also want the gambling to be excluded. Secondly, we want that exercise rules... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] We want to ensure that, where there is a general legal framework, such as in the social field, in the environmental field, in building law, this general legal framework, such as Austria, is not undermined by the country of origin principle. – I admit: This is a simple requirement, but it is not easy to implement, but the Commission is there for that. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to ensure effective controls through government cooperation and, ultimately, a complete law enforcement. Fourthly, we need a clear definition of these three directives, which I have referred to as essential, in particular a clear distinction between the Services Directive and the Entrepreneurship Directive, which I have already mentioned. As I said, the transitions are still a bit smeary at the moment, and there is a need for clear demarcations. I thus conclude, even if Mr Gusenbauer has previously reported it wrong, because the example he mentioned is simply illegal – and illegal offers are, of course, traceable in Austria. [[Abg. Wattaul: Gusenbauer is not there at all!]] In any case: Whether Indonesian or Korean workers in Linz or what Mr. Gusenbauer referred here: If someone in Austria is paid under the collective agreement, perhaps even with € 1 or € 2 per hour, then the national legislation, in translation of the Entendment Directive, contradicts, and that is possible! [[Abg. Oillinger: I will then give you a legal example!]] Mr. Ollinger, don't call in between! Come to me with examples, and we'll do this! [[Abg. Oillinger: No, I'll tell you then...!]] You usually have no examples in such cases. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5054	We are now going into the debate. The speaking time has already been announced. First of all, Mr Dr. Eins. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5080	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think, above all, the spectators in the gallery or in front of the television screens will not have become much smarter from the words of Mr Bartenstein's Federal Minister. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. School: Do not underestimate people!]] It is quite obvious – you could see – that this is a bit complicated, and it is quite obvious that Minister Bartenstein would like anything to be different. But how it should be, he didn't actually say. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth taking a closer look at these questions. There are essentially two in Austria who say that they want this directive absolutely and actually along what the Commission has proposed – with a few exceptions, Bartenstein has now said, for example, casinos. Who are these two who want to have that? – One is the Industrial Union, the other is Mr Bartenstein. [[Abg. May. Molterer: General care!]] Let us stay at the Industrial Union and ask: Why do they want that? – This is relatively close: We too, ladies and gentlemen, are in favour of Austrian companies being able to export their good services under the best possible conditions. There is no doubt about that. And that's probably the only thing that really unites us all in this point. The second point is the question: Why is the industrial union involved in doing so? – Is also relatively close: These are relatively large companies that are already exporting today and which expect them to know, in the future, only more Austrian law and export under the terms of the Services Directive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] They expect it to be cheaper for them and therefore they can export better. That is also very understandable. [[Abg. Neudeck: There are no other guidelines!]] The point is, ladies and gentlemen, and this is especially true of you sitting on the television screens at home - the question is: What do small companies actually have, what does the service provider have with seven employees of it? What do the SMEs, which are actually the bulk of the Austrian companies, have of them? Have you considered the conditions under which you are selling your services to Hamburg or Warsaw, and does it mean that it would be very fine now if there were finally a European Service Directive? And have you talked about it with your representatives of interest and told her that this is something quite great for you? – I think you should talk to her again! [[Abg. Grillitsch: Have you already spoken to the union?]] What is to be expected here is that the industrial associations or whatever their name is, of course, the big companies of the other countries are interested in offering their services in Austria as well! What is going to happen is that competition at the expense of small businesses will become massively more intense! And this may be quite nice for consumers for a while, because this will make them cheaper. The point is just, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Nobody in this country is exclusively consumers! Most consumers have to earn their money before they spend it, and the question is who is under pressure in this increased competition. I asked Minister Bartenstein in a parliamentary question whether there were any studies that justified his positioning for Austria, whether there were figures and data, whether there were concrete assessments, which would be the effect in Austria – who would be pressured, who would have additional opportunities, who would save up on how much money and who would cost it more. And the answer was: There are no such investigations. Ladies and gentlemen! I think responsible politics looks different! That is what we have to say on this issue today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let's take the second example... – Mr Bartenstein, we don't have time to talk here personally! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Now I'm talking. You've already spoken! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The point is that it is not only about the Austrian companies – mainly the smaller ones – that they will be under massive pressure because they will be exposed to significantly increased competition, especially with service providers coming from countries where there are lower wage costs, where there is lower social security, for example, where there is no wage compensation in the case of sickness or a much lower level of pay than in Austria. – These are conditions of competition, in which, even if you are good as an Austrian company and if you have very good employees, you cannot exist, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! And you should keep an eye on that. But that is something that seems relatively indifferent to you, Mr Minister. But there is also another problem: There are also companies that do not only think it is good with this country, who are quite interested in making money here, but who may come to the idea that it is quite practical to set up a branch in a country where other conditions are not covered by the Send Directive at all. Just let your employees sign up in the UK, and if you would like them to sell in your store if you just need them by chance, then call! And you say that this is happening in the UK – we are not going to do it, but there it is, and the Sentence Directive does not cover it, Minister of State. Or you can also, if you have staff, hire them in Portugal in a subsidiary – I do not deliberately take East states. And you can say, if they get sick: Bad luck! In the case of sickness, we have six weeks to pay, but there only for 14 days – 15 to be precise. Ladies and gentlemen! These are things that this gentleman is not talking about, but he is Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs. And I think that's not responsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me give you a third and last example: Imagine, there is a case where a domestic service provider provides services on the basis of this future service directive, and on this basis there are doubts... – Mr Molterer, I am not called “of”, my name is One, if you wish! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Lord of One! Where's your business?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Lord of One! You're not acting like that!]] Mr Molterer, as long as Mr Bundeskanzler can still say: Trust you to say that again! or can say: These are “insanity ideas! ” I can still say “bartstone” without saying Lord. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You said “this Lord” – and not “Bartenstein”!]] – I believe he is Mr Bartenstein. Make sure that the Federal Chancellor apologizes for his misbehavior! Last point: An authority in Austria has doubts about the right of a service provider to provide its services on the basis of the Services Directive in Austria and would like to know if this is all right and if they can do what they are doing at home. What's she doing? – It then asks the authority of the country of origin, in the respective official language, and asks whether this is all right. Now imagine the case, the district headquarters Mistelbach receives a Polish request whether a certain Austrian company has a certain capacity – and that in Polish. Can you imagine how quickly the answer will come? Then imagine the reverse case, namely how quickly a Portuguese authority will reply to an Austrian request, which will be made in German, and how easily the implementation of these standards will be. Congratulations on such a scheme! I think that if we want a Europe in which people can rely on the law to remain right and the authorities must not act in this way. That's easy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I am therefore endorsing the motion for a resolution by Dr. Caspar Einmund colleagues, who have been distributed and who, in essence, aims to ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that the Services Directive, as it has been presented by the Commission, is not really withdrawn, but is the Commission's best way of withdrawing it. However, if this fails, there are conditions under which we imagine that we can agree to the liberalisation of services, and essentially that we aim to achieve a gradual harmonisation of legislation by sector and in this way to achieve liberalisation. According to Article 50 of the Treaty on European Community, it has already been given, in any event, on the basis of the country of destination principle. We shouldn't forget that. We want the sanctions and control mechanisms to be effective and that people can rely on the right to which they trust. We want an assessment of the positive and negative effects and their distribution in the effects of this directive. Short: We want first of all responsible conditions to be created and then liberalisation to be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5286	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Caspar In accordance with Article 53(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71, the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Union are required to ensure that the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5398	The next item is the speech by Mr Neugebauer. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5419	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Dr. One, we've known each other for a long time. I do not evaluate the quality of your discourse with Mr Mag. Molterer, but: What makes me much more concerned is that, as one who is well-deserved at European level, you clearly show here that, if there is a little problem to deal with, you are removing yourself from Europe. [[Abg. Oils: A little bit of a problem!]] A biter Europe is too little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a result, the very serious analysis of a trade union colleague, Mr Fritz Verzetznich, may well be in the basic structure, because I believe that Austria's services are being pursued worldwide, such as – for example – energy and environmental technology, insurance, electronic data processing and much more. [[Abg. Oillingers: You only have officials in your head, everyone else you don't care!]] Since, according to Dr. Dr., there was no alleged analysis of what this means in terms of value added. – The Institute of Industrial Science, in short IWI, has presented this several times: 1 million € exported service brings to value added 800 000 € domestic. – I take this the way the scientist, as I mean, has done. We must also agree that the single market is a key element of the European Union. The exchange of goods is largely regulated. We are in the middle of the services. You don't need to be a prophet, that was suggested. I think you too can share this from the timeline. These days the Internal Market Committee will be working on it. In a month, for example, Parliament may or may not be concerned with it. Perhaps the Austrian Presidency will deal with this question, perhaps in conclusion, what I would like to do, because we have brought in a culture of social dialogue which we have to fight over and over again. The Treaty on the Constitution, which unfortunately did not come about, brought not least the question of the social market economy as a conceptual element into this Treaty through the participation of Austrian representatives. However, if there are different economic strengths in Europe in the individual countries, different social structures, different social and occupational protection standards, then appropriate regulations are also necessary, and these regulations are addressed here. It's clear to us: Ruinous competition would not only harm workers, but also small and medium-sized enterprises and affect the objective of strengthening economic power. The discussion, ladies and gentlemen, which we are now holding, has become more relevant thanks to God. When I think of the Bolkestein Directive of the former Commissioner responsible for this, I remember that the waves have deliberately risen. In fact, 1 154 amendments have been tabled. Barroso pulled the line. The Irish Commissioner, in his succession, has made it clear that he does not want to steal from the social dimension on this issue either. [[Abg. Not anymore!]] As is evidenced by international media reports, he has obtained a lot of fat from economic policy makers. He was put down as weak. Concerned small businesses and employees in the border regions will thank him for the courage to reverse. We also need to strengthen him in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The amendments, ladies and gentlemen, have also been clearly presented by the Federal Minister. I think that the ladies and gentlemen on the televisions – to use your diction – are smart enough to be able to understand these changes accordingly. As far as these regulations are concerned, I would like to point out one point, namely the one that the Federal Minister has mentioned, that it is necessary to see the Services Directive, the Send Directive and the Professional Qualifications Directive combined in its effectiveness. I would strongly advocate, Minister of State, that these three directives should also be adopted politically and that the control responsibility for these measures should also be left to the Member States. This is one example – unfortunately there are many, Mr Oellinger, from the Federal Republic of Germany, where Polish meat-minsters and companions went to Germany and did meat-working at Polish tariffs, while in Germany hundreds were unemployed. This has also helped to raise a little more awareness on this issue. That means that we will continue to proceed according to domestic directives. competitiveness, but equally important is social cohesion. For this we have to fight together. I attach great importance to this, because Dr. Swoboda's attitude on a foreign policy issue was another one. It has always been culture, I believe, and I have always appreciated to Mr Schieder that we have spoken with a tongue on important foreign policy issues. This was a bear service that Mr. Dr. Swoboda is outraging – he is not anyone, after all, he is Vice-President of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament – as one of the few... – Mr. Colleague, leave that to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: You can't judge that at all!]] Do you think? I'll leave that to you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a clear statement because, of course, Mr Matznetter did not speak very evocatively of Europe, but of the next elections. There's a nice saying: “Politics are thinking of the next elections, statesmen are thinking of the next generations.” – This distinguishes us in politics: We make policy for today also for our children and our grandchildren. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me say one last thing that has to do with service. The administrative college in Speyer is awarding a large price each year, in which the Austrian administrative units, federal government, countries, municipalities, participate. We cleared up triumph this time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Parliament!]] I would also like to take this opportunity to mention that the eGovernment was also honoured by the winners of the eGovernment. Thank you to the responsible person in the management, but above all also to the employees!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5544	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. It's the head of the word. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5565	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on the Services Directive also comes at the right time for me. ==References== The next decisions in the European field will be taken at the end of October, and the decisions in the Economic and Social Committee and in the Commission will probably be taken at the first reading in the European Parliament at the end of October. Mr Vergestnitsch has, in his remarks on accompanying all that is on the table at points of criticism of social cohesion in Europe. At the time, I myself negotiated the transitional periods for European enlargement from 15 to 25 with the German Minister for Social Affairs Rister. Those countries that were the most vehemently opposed at the time that Austria, Germany and Sweden have introduced transitional periods, such as Ireland or Portugal and others, are quite different today. Wage dumping and the corresponding arrangements are known. If you are driving through Austria on the southern motorway today, you will wonder how many Cypriot weights there are in Europe. If you look at the inscriptions on the doors, you see that you do not need to be surprised, because it is Austrian and German entrepreneurs who are registered with their load weights in Cyprus and who are running through Europe on the collective contracts there, partly with black workers and in the illegal area, in order to say this clearly. It can be seen that a lot of what is actually in the illegal field is very difficult to get hold of by the Austrian authorities. What about consumer protection? What's going on? Mr Hofer from the Upper Mölltal for a service he has received for his operation from Poland or Portugal, if the service is not successful, then cross-border? Either he's financially strong, then he will be able to fight in six or seven years, or he is a normal Austrian consumer, then he will have to give up on the legal path because he cannot afford it and because it does not pay off for a few hundred euros to ruin the nerves over years. We understand, therefore, that the harmonisation steps are a prerequisite for the success of the Services Directive in Europe, and that cooperation between the authorities must also work accordingly, because otherwise, the proper production of businesses, whether small or large, will be those who will be driven out of the market in favour of those who benefit from dumping wages and the new system. And we don't want to. We must therefore also take appropriate precautions and precautions in the context of these services directives. It's still time. 1 100 amendments are already on the table at the time of Bolkestein's paper, and the line that Bolkestein represented will no longer be seen by his successors thanks to the fact that European social peace in addition to the economic area of Europe, also through the Austrian Presidency of the past, has gained a higher priority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that we can lead the discussion here very serious and forward-looking, because it is still time to introduce our arguments and our proposals for improvement and harmonisation, and to shape the whole process for the next two to three years in such a way that what is present in fears and concerns on the European market does not occur or only to a very small extent. Let's look at today's conditions. I came from the district of Spittal on the Drau and was able to observe that last year in the labour market district of Spittal on the Drau, 360 employees worked with Polish companies all summer. In the first month they received their salary, in the second month they received an account – and in the third month they got nothing more. They did not receive a final invoice either because the companies concerned were no longer to be found. Today, workers' representatives are on the move in the second year to ensure wages through legal proceedings in Poland. Whether this will succeed is not known, for the criminals are faster than the rule of law. Therefore, the rule of law must ensure that the concerns and fears that exist in the population are taken so seriously that at least the legal instruments of the European rule of law work from the outset. However, this also means that at last all social areas will be aligned not only in their benchmarks and in their statistics, but also in their minimum levels, in order not to be misinterpreted. It cannot be that in Austria, together with the Austrian economy, we have successfully tried to protect workers in recent decades, that in the case of a number of fewer than 100,000 accidents at work, we have reduced the mortality rate at the workplace, but on the other hand, the psychological burden is already the early retirement base number one and the pressure on individuals – whether entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs or employees – is already so high that we also have to take preventive action here. If it means that prevention is important in the health policy of this federal government, prevention must also be important in this area in the negotiations at European level. We should not, as in the case of enlargement by the ten. trying to say it's going to go somehow. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] “It’s not going anywhere” because Europe’s people are sensitized, and as Austrians, as Austrian Parliament and as Austrian Federal Government, we have every reason, perhaps up to the Austrian Presidency in Europe, to represent, implement and bring to law our goal of a social Europe with a functioning European market and service system. I think it is a good opportunity to be in the troika and to be able to speak with a high social level as a socially high country in Europe – in the interest of the European Union, the European internal market and the European labour relations of large populations. Many of the negative opinions we have against the European Union in today's society are due to the fact that people no longer understand what is happening here. The U.S. Constitution is easy to read and understand for an average American – and the level of education of wide-ranging levels in America, for example, when looking at the army members, much less than the broad level of education of the “old 15” in Europe. On the other hand, the European Constitution in its approach, which has up to now been rejected in two countries, is an incomprehensible paper, which is in keeping with European regulatory and bureaucracy, but certainly not a suitable instrument for the general public to understand that it has more rights for people and for the European Parliament, and that clear rules of entry and exit are also included for countries who are willing to leave. That is why it is also possible to insure the Austrian population. With something clearly legible and clearly understandable by the population, one cannot be unsure, but it becomes a living part of the future in Europe. If we open up to become simpler and clearer, we will also win the people for Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5654	Mr President, I was told that it would be a request. That's not happening right now. [[Abg. Sburny: Should I bring him in?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I'd think you'd bring in the application soon. You still have time to talk. But it has to go quickly, it's only a minute's remaining speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5691	Thank you, Madam President. I am therefore in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neugebauer and Mr Magistrate. Bring him in and let him in his core without the Preamble...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5707	No, please read the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5722	The application was submitted in accordance with section 74b of the Rules of Procedure on the subject of "Services Directive – Internal Market on the back of the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises and workers". A high degree of competitiveness is the key to increasing growth and employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5746	Excuse me, Mr Deputies: Read only the text of the motion for a resolution on the second page. That's enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5762	I originally wanted to do that. I have understood your words in such a way that you also want to hear the Preamble. However, I am very pleased that we are able to find the results of the purely motion for a resolution on business rules. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as the application is concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5804	Thank you. The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5865	The next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5887	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! In my view, it is a real manko that EU members of this meeting cannot attend today. In principle, it would be possible to have an interesting discussion in which things could be considered from different perspectives, and I am sorry that the government groups could not afford to engage in this dialogue with the European level. Many of us and also of you are active at the community level, so they work in regional bodies. Therefore, you know very well that it is sometimes very interesting if you can look at a theme from different angles. Then you get a bit of understanding for both the one and the other position. I am sorry that it was not worth your while to talk to the EU Parliamentarians here too. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That would have been interesting today. It would have been particularly interesting with regard to the Services Directive because it is a co-decision matter. This means that on this issue the European Parliament is very likely to have a co-decision, which it does not always have, and which is not, of course. The European Parliament cannot decide on every issue. In many cases, governments do this alone. So Parliament has this opportunity in the Services Directive, and it has also expressed itself yesterday, namely, quite critically, not to say negatively. I'll come back to that. It would have been very interesting, however, with regard to the question of Turkey's accession. Yesterday, the European Parliament adopted a decision on Turkey's accession, a positive decision with a view to Turkey's full accession. It would have been interesting to discuss how the position of Austria is here. [[Abg. Scheibner: When we talked about it in the early days, you said it was to be spoken “to cause ”!]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel is extremely unbelievable in the question of Turkey's accession, but you did not care at all. Federal Chancellor Schüssel is highly disbelievable here because it is fact that until a few months ago, German Chancellor Schüssel always represented Turkey's goal of entering Turkey with an open process offensively. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, he always represented the same position!]] If he changes his position now, it is unbelievable and a bad service to Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're not listening!]] And that a few months before the adoption by Austria of the EU Presidency! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We Greens are the goal of full entry in open process. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: And Voggenhuber, Mrs. Collaborator? What about Voggenhuber?]] We are the goal of Turkey's entry into force, knowing that it is an open process, and knowing that there is still a lot to be done on both sides. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Voggenhuber is the most critical of all! Really!]] Back to the Services Directive. . There is also a report from the European Parliament on the Services Directive, which is in line with what has already been referred to by the SPÖ, but interestingly now by my colleague, Mr Hoof. I am not quite clear why Mr President is the co-applicant in this request, because what he has represented is actually quite the opposite of what is contained in this proposal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You need to know what's in the application!]] The Services Directive – which was the subject before – contains a few key points that can actually be criticized. I would like to predict that we Greens are already in favour of a common economic area. That is to say, we are in favour of a development towards the common economic area, and indeed also for liberalisation, which we do not want to do, is that social, labour-law consumer interests on this occasion are completely covered by the wheels. And that threatens – yet it is not decided, but that threatens – with the Services Directive. The so-called country of origin principle has been raised several times, and I would like to address it already, Minister Bartenstein, that you have said that there is a collective agreement. Federal Chancellor Schüssel also said last year in Alpbach that Austria's laws apply, of course. If this Services Directive enters into force as it is now in discussion, i.e. with the country of origin principle, it does not alter our collective agreements – right! – but it does change something about who, in addition to the collective agreements with completely different wages, can work here in Austria. And if another company in Austria with completely... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No, no, Mrs Sburny, this applies to the sentencing directive!]] The Send Directive refers only to a part of it. It has a time frame, it has a completely clear framework under which it can take place. For the first time, the Services Directive makes it possible for businesses in Austria to offer at dumping prices that they can employ their employees on conditions that do not comply with Austrian labour law and to wages that are far, far below what Austrian workers here deserve – parentheses: must – above the collective contract. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is what this means, and it is also in the sense of a European idea. People come to Austria – rightly, I say – because they themselves have very bad conditions, they want to work out a slightly better standard in Austria. Just, you also have to see what that means in Austria when people can work here that work here – legally – at a tenth of the price, as Austrian companies can offer. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No, that's not right, Mrs. Sburny!]] That's right, and you know it as well as I do that that's possible! This of course promotes, apart from the fact that it undermines all standards in Austria, not only in wage and labour law, but also in consumer protection, consumer protection... [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That's also wrong! That's just wrong!]] No, that's what you always say when we have a different position. These standards are all undermined. But next to that – and perhaps you can simply listen and follow a sentence to the end – you also contribute to the incitement against residents, against people from other countries in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You have to explain this to me!]] Yeah, I'll explain that to you right away. What happens is that, of course, employees in Austria are under extreme pressure because people from other countries work here at a much lower price, and then it says: They're taking away jobs! If you decide to do so – you, Federal Minister, because you are responsible for it – then you are actually doing so. They make it possible to work on dumping wages in Austria and to push out jobs with our standards. And that is not a small thing, as you always try to present, that undermines our entire social, labour law system. That is why we will certainly not be able to agree here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Overall, there is a downward spiral in all these areas that we do not want to support. We already have this in the tax field, and we will not continue to do so with the Services Directive in the service sector now. In other words, what we want is for you, Mr Minister, to act as a responsible minister at EU level against the fact that the Services Directive is coming as it is now planned. From our point of view – and this is also our motion for a resolution, which I am submitting here – a positive list should be drawn up, clarifying what services are included, in which all areas of so-called general interest provision, i.e. services provided in the public interest, are excluded, because in the case of a positive list, it can then be said that these are very concrete and taxative the areas for which this applies. Then there are no uncertainties either. The country of origin must definitely go beyond that, because that means legal uncertainty and not legal certainty, as the European Union actually sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6083	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Sburny has just been presented in his key points. It is based on the scope according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. It is available in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6184	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Moser. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6205	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen also in front of the TV screens! The current EU Services Directive threatens the European social model, the European welfare model that we social democrats present to us. And that's... From our point of view, Europe needs an economic policy that makes public responsibility, social security, cohesion and fair conditions the principle. This Services Directive is a neoclassical free-land experiment without a safety network. That is why we are opposed to this directive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why do I come to this conclusion? [[Abg. Fauland: Yes, that would be interesting!]] The core of this Directive is the so-called country of origin principle. This means that all services provided are for employers, for workers, for consumers, for the authorities the legal systems of the countries of origin and not for the target countries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – jobs They have a football country game, with different rules in each country. There two clubs meet, and the rules of origin apply. One organizes the penalty so that at seven meters the others are shot, the other at 11 meters. One excludes someone from two red cards, the other with four red cards. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You can imagine what comes out at the end of this game: That's messy pure! In addition, only the stronger will prevail in this context. And on the other hand, we're acting. This example clearly illustrates this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Those who don't know about football now have a problem!]] Most of them already know each other in football. They also know that it is necessary to have harmonised, equivalent rule for all so that a game can work. And competition in Europe only works if competition is regulated equally. That is why our approach is not this country of origin principle, but harmonisation. What happens through this Services Directive? – Legal uncertainty arises, transparency arises, and controls are made more difficult. And what is the consequence? – It has been said several times today: The lowest social and environmental standards will prevail. The installer, who does not have access restrictions on qualifications in terms of legal certainty, will prevail in Europe at the expense of higher social and environmental quality. We are going to act against that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... Service Directive, right?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to give a second example. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The first one was...!]] An employee at Billa suffers for a long time, she has a tape disc incident. She then returns to the company, and the employer explains to her that he cannot stop her again in Austria, but that he can hire her in his subsidiary in Portugal. This Billa worker, of course, is afraid of her future, she doesn't get a job and accepts this offer. What is the result, ladies and gentlemen? – At her next illness, this Billa worker will no longer receive any remuneration from the employer, but only the sickness benefit from the local health insurance fund at the level of half of the work allowance. [[Abg. May. Hakl:... Service Directive!]] Under Portuguese law, there is no legal right against the employer to compensation for sickness. According to Austrian law – you know – it is at least six weeks' full and four weeks' pay, according to Portuguese law, 15 days' pay according to company membership – that is the difference, ladies and gentlemen, that is the difference! Now this woman deserves very little, and then she has to give up half of her salary during her new illness. [[Abg. May. Hakl: But where is...?]] You know what she deserves: It deserves 800 to 1 000 € gross. You can't imagine that at all, colleague Hakl, that you can get along with so little money. [[Abg. May. Hakl: What does this have to do with the Services Directive?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... don't know yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's why we're demanding... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Look You're looking at exactly what's really being paid for. – That is why we call on the Federal Government and, in particular, Mr Bartenstein to say this very clearly and clearly: Will you vote against this country of origin principle in Brussels, yes or no? We Social Democrats demand that this Services Directive be withdrawn, that there be European standards, at the highest level, and that cross-border services control remains in Austria. Only in this way can Austrian quality be permanently secured. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6373	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Mitterlehner. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6394	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Your colleague, Moser, you really don't make it easy for you. [[Abg. Dr. One:... not his job!]] Because if you don't know what's kind of evocative about the settlement of football rules, I'm concerned if you want to transfer it to economic policy. This is a bit of a fear for us. I have to say the following from the TV viewer's point of view. If even Members of this House are spreading things and creating these things, which are simply, I do not want to say, untruths, but half-truths, then we must not be surprised if, after Basel II, the next unword is the Services Directive and all the fears associated with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prehauser]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: Right!]] I'd like to start with Dr. One. [[Abg. Reheis:... in your own rows!]] Mr. Dr. Een, you started by saying: Industry and Minister Bartenstein want this Services Directive. – We mainly produce production services in the industrial sector, so we produce essentially goods. Industry is also usually so large that, when it exports and needs to, it can set up branches abroad. Therefore, the industry has essentially no need for the Services Directive to be implemented. But what you need – because you, Dr. One who has addressed small and medium-sized enterprises – is access, as we have had complaints from companies, from joiners, metal workshops, construction companies that were not allowed to deliver to Germany. Why? – Because they have been put in the way of a total of loud shocks: that they had to pay in advance to the building workers' leave fund any benefits they had to make in the form of six courses until they could even become active – to the financial office, to the Black Labour Office, to everything there is in the relevant offices. In the final effect, we then went to the EU, filed complaints and got justice. The reason why we want the implementation of the Services Directive on a broad basis is equal opportunities. I don't understand why you see everything so defensive. We have an export quota of 55 percent. Do you think we have the same social conditions and other standards in the field of goods wherever we compete? – We compete with countries because these countries can provide certain services better or because we can provide them better. And why can we give them better? – Because we have the better products, the better workers and the better distribution system. Therefore, I do not understand the defensive approach that you see a threat everywhere, but not the chance. [[Abg. May. Worm:... what people need!]] We have been successful in the service sector so far, we have had a surplus. We have been falling in the EU and also in Austria for a year. Why do we have a decline? – Because we have too many barriers in the field of services. With this, Mrs Sburny: If you say that dumping prices can be worked in Austria, this is simply not true in the form, but the collective agreements apply. [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Sburny: Then explain how! Explain!]] Where the problem is – and somewhere is always a bit half-truth in it –: The problem, of course, is that, on the other hand, employees from abroad who provide services here do not have the same social legislation. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This does not mean, however, that those working here at dumping prices, but they work in the collective contract area on the same provisions. [[Abg. Sburny:... get paid!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: I'll give you an example!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Look, the problem is that we now have to ensure the following; I am also in what President Vergestnich has mentioned. If I want to control the qualification, including the social legislation, I need uniform resolution procedures and probably also an administrative enforcement agreement, which is not planned at the moment. Overall, if I define the standards accordingly, we should benefit from the Services Directive and also the country of origin principle. It's wrong to say: Let's see we're all harmonizing this whole thing. We do not do that in the tax field, we do that with all the others... – Because there are too many local egoisms! [[Abg. Oils: Why not?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry, why not?]] – That’s why this is a fair path. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Do you know what's going on? – Before mentioning consumer protection and other things, take a look at the consumer interests which, in your opinion, are at risk: The whole thing is excluded, it is clearly regulated. I'm actually wondering: What's left of it? Here is also a particular accusation to the EU: I would say that Mr Bolkestein and others who have edited this have misedited it. Now the process is much further, we are with very good determinations, with really viable criteria. See it a little bit from the positive side: We as a domestic economy would not be where we are if we were not strong. [[Abg. Dr. One: You deliver the SMEs!]] And if you put the term “small and medium-sized enterprises” in your mouth by the Socialists, then I'm always afraid, there's something lazy, because you've never really represented them.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6594	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. His welcome time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6617	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about the Services Directive so far, and a lot has been right and important. We also see in the general objective that we are not far from each other. [[Abg. Oils: pretty far!]] As far as the Lisbon objectives are concerned, as far as the general objectives of the European Commission are concerned, we are not far from each other. The way there is a bit bumpy, it is a little different, and there are some concerns which I share with Mr Vergestnich. Generally speaking, I believe that Austria has always been a model student in the implementation of the directives, in the implementation of various measures that we have received from Brussels. As an example, take the HACCP Hygiene Regulation, which is a good example for many. It has brought very many meats, many farmers and also host farmers, those who are in contact with food and are active in the food-producing industry to the edge of the ruin. For many, it was not understandable that there are so many directives to be implemented, which only mean administration and bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Each of us was already on holiday in Greece or Portugal – many years of member countries next to us –: There the meat still hangs in the sun, still this summer it was hanging in the sun! This means that these well thought-out directives and objectives, which come to us from Brussels to Austria, which we take very seriously and are also very carefully implemented, are not examined and implemented by other Member States in the European Community with this degree of care and seriousness. That is also the point, which is why I am a little skeptical about the implementation of the Services Directive. Another example – also mentioned by Mr Mitterlehner – is Basel II. There we have been talking to the United States about the glue: a credit protection regulation that basically only creates administration and bureaucracy that has long since been deleted in the United States, because it has not brought anything, no positive effect on the medium-sized economy, which basically has given me the impression that if one deliberately wanted to harm the European Economic Area by such a absurd regulation. [[Abg.: (in the direction of ÖVP) Why was the Chamber of Commerce for this?]] All these are examples – up to the “decolleté regulation”, which is now being widened in the newspapers – which the citizens of our country no longer understand, which also the economy no longer understands, examples of an overregulation that actually leads to a superstate of the European Community. That's not what citizens in our country want! The citizens of our country want to be understood by the European Union. They identify with the European Community, with the Community idea, they also identify with the euro I do not wish to call into question. But let us not make it so difficult for citizens to believe in this European objective of the European Community, even in the future, with such unwise regulations and regulations, that they lose faith in it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] The “Think Global – Act Local” objective would also do us better in the European Community in the future, that we take our responsibility in the region’s Europe a little more seriously and also respond to the changes in the global economy. That would not be equal to that we withdraw to the Schneckhaus Austria and say: What do you want to do? - No! But we must also note that there are many threats outside the European Community, which are much, much more crucial, much more important. If I think only of Chinese imports in the textile sector: We have exported the machines from Europe to China and now we have to import cheap textiles. I am in favour of finally introducing criminal duties for those products produced under the social standards produced under the environmental standards, which are partly linked to child labour. It is therefore more crucial to take measures and regulations so that the European Economic Area does not continue to suffer from pressure and our medium-sized economy. Ladies and gentlemen! For the future of the European Union, I would like it to deal with more essential things than with regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6688	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. The honourable Member, your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6709	Ladies and gentlemen! I am afraid we can still hold a few European days, many European days. As long as policy fails or does not want to change the basic problem of double-tracking, the confidence of citizens in this Austrian or European policy will not increase, even if we discuss a lot and discuss it publicly. I would like to give you two examples of why this is so. This is where Mr Haupt goes out and says things about the Services Directive, which are basically entirely correct. But then he submits a request, together with Mr Neugebauer, which contains about the opposite of what he here criticised as a criticism of the Services Directive. He speaks for the tribunals, criticises the Services Directive, and when it comes to voting, he is in favour of the Services Directive. Second example – and this is much worse –: The municipalities, the countryside in Austria... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Listen carefully, Mr. Neugebauer. You have only the officials in your head, and that is too little for this question. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is also for employees in Austria...!]] The municipalities in Austria, the country days in Austria, all they are against the Services Directive! I'm sure: If we were to speak here in Parliament not only, but also to vote as we are told, then the result would look different. [[Abg. Sburny: That's right!]] All are in Austria against this service directive, the mayors are against it, and the councils are against it. [[Abg. Dr. One: Seven days of land unanimously!]] But you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, say that all this does not matter because the Minister knows it much, much better! He is the only one who knows, and that is why he will not only vote in favour of the implementation of the Services Directive in Brussels, but he has always been – and he has done so as a person – one of the strongest. It cannot be brutal enough for the Services Directive, then the Minister Bartenstein likes it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm saying, Minister of State: We can already discuss, but we also want to be able to vote openly from politics, in this case from our representatives at European level, that they think that what the municipalities, the countryside, the majority of the Austrian population – probably too – would be able to vote openly, the majority of parliamentarians – in Brussels, so that they do not become more and more convinced that they already know better what is doing well there. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is the problem of European policy! If nothing changes, then Europe's day will be of no use to us either. Now I come to the level of content, Minister of State: Because You said earlier, “Tell me examples,” I now give you examples. There are employees in Austria who, by means of Austrian enterprises, are employed, for example, by companies registered on the Channel Islands – Great Britain – working here in Austria and under British law, not even according to British law, but according to the law of the Channel Islands, which is even worse, in employment and social law. No one in Austria can control this! Why not? – Because there is no authority to control wages! Tell me an authority, Minister of State, to control wages! There's no one. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The Authority that has exposed the scandal in Linz, for example!]] There is no authority to control wages! It is not a question of putting everything in motion in the appropriate case, if you come up with it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure, the health insurance check!]] What we demand is that authorities, control authorities in particular... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Check the health insurances!]] The health insurance fund? – Listening Please, my colleague, Mrs Fekter! The health insurance fund doesn't come up with the blackwork! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] She sees that her social security contributions will be cancelled, but she does not have the right – and that is partly the right thing to do – to be active, Mrs Fekter. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And she only gets it when according to the collective contracts...!]] I'll tell you a second much better example. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] – Mrs Fekter, perhaps calm down, please listen! Listen! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have no idea how it really is!]] Strawberry production in Austria, and thus we come to the Services Directive, revealed in the summer of this year in Lower Austria: In a strawberry producing plant – service – women from Poland were employed, and they were immediately reduced to their safety on arrival! Translated: So they can't get back in time. No matter, let's leave this aspect, Minister of State. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Decree! Where was that?]] Let's turn to this: What do these people deserve? They are employed in accordance with the Austrian collective agreement. [[Abg. Friend: Look!]] But do you know, Mr. Freund, what is the collective agreement for strawberry workers in Austria? – 5,30 € or 5,40 € gross! Do you know what the strawberry workers who work here are subtracted for food and logis? - So much that they won't stay. The only chance the hereditary bear workers have... [[Abg. Neudeck: You can't prove that!]] What are you so excited about? I'm just telling things in the newspapers. [[Abg. Neudeck: That also doesn't have to be the case, what is in the newspapers!]] It's interesting that you really put it that way. That's facts! I keep telling you, 'cause I'm talking. – These people have only one chance to get to money by working as much as possible and on chords. [[Abg. Neudeck: Much work for less money!]] The wage for 1 kilo of strawberries that these persons receive is 25 cents. You probably know about how long you, how long we'd need to harvest 1 kilo of strawberries. Let's say they need 5 minutes for 1 kilo – that's not bad! Then it means: 3 € per hour in the chord. Let's assume they're twice as fast – 24 kilos per hour. You have to do that once, these 24 kilos of strawberries! That's 6 € per hour. Cost and logis are still deducted from this wage. Can you imagine that? The interesting point, however, is not just what these people deserve here in Austria, because that is a lot for them, because in Poland they earn even less. I spoke to a representative of the Polish Embassy, who said: In Poland you get a quarter of it – 25 zloty –, about a quarter of 25 cents. And he goes on to say: In Poland this does not make a pole/no more political, because that would be too little! They couldn't live with those 25 Zloty. That's why they're naturally trying to get to Austria. In Poland, people from Ukraine, Belarus and, and, are used for this 25 zloty. I have tried to make it clear to you that there is a real process that has nothing to do with the Services Directive and where it is only in the rarest cases that people have to work in Austria or in Poland on what miserable conditions, because the conditions in Poland for the people of Ukraine and Belarus are not better, but even worse. What changes the Services Directive? – The employee in Austria no longer needs to employ the people in the Austrian farm. There will be a Polish company that will send it to Austria at the Polish conditions, to the 25 Zloty. [[Abg. Rädler: They would not come! No social drama please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is not a social drama at all, but reality!]] And Mr Bartenstein as Minister of Labour says: We've got everything under control! These are realities, these are perspectives that threaten, and this does not help anyone, even the people in agriculture, if you consider this again a biterl, which is happening internationally and not only in relation to Austria. The Polish attaché also told me: We can no longer be competitive with our strawberries produced on the export markets under Polish conditions, because they pay even less in China than we do in Poland. These are realities that only heighten you through such measures. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: There are no Chinese strawberries with us!]] There are no Chinese strawberries? - You have an idea! Perhaps not in Austria, but in the Federal Republic of Germany. There's the whole market flooded! You'll still notice. There are already the Chinese strawberries, in my opinion also the Moroccans to Austria, even if you do not think this is possible. The point, ladies and gentlemen, is simple: The Services Directive brings the European social model and the economic model to an explosion! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you do this, ladies and gentlemen, then the model Europe as a social state is at the end of a liveable democracy. And for this, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that few people in Europe have or want to bear responsibility, but not the majority, which certainly does not want to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7010	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would draw attention to the fact that your speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7031	I'm going to limit myself to just under 2 minutes, they're still up to me from my 10 minutes. Madam President, I should like to thank you for your High house! Mr Oellinger, the case in Linz with the Indonesian and Korean workers has been immediately taken up by the AMS – you have disputed it. He's been picked up right away. [[Abg. Oillinger: I didn't talk about it at all!]] All send confirmations have been withdrawn. The authorities were active. This maladministration has been stopped immediately. So we keep this in Austria, even if you do not want to take note of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I suppose you are referring to the harvest helpers, to the strawberry pickers, to the report in the “Falter”. I've read it too. I immediately contacted the farmers' representatives, the AMS, and the result was that these Polish harvest workers and harvest workers were rewarded and paid in accordance with our legal and collective contract system. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's bad already!]] Since I'm talking about: If I compare what President Vergestnich said and what Mr von Einm said, then I will stick to the position of President Vergestnich, who, as co-author of the Kok report, called for one to create the conditions by the end of 2005 in order to achieve a European internal market in services. So no return to the start, no harmonisation, because this would move the project to the Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag. That's where I know what I'm doing. [[Abg. The second side, however, you also have to read!]] Social dumping. – This clarification is important because of the conscious or unconscious false statements of many ladies and gentlemen of the House. Social dumping is excluded because of the legal situation in Austria. We have fully transposed the Entendment Directive. You in the high house did that. In this way, collective agreements must be observed in Austria. This applies to all, including those who are registered via the Channel Islands or elsewhere – Mr. Ollinger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea!]] If there are any points, as Mr Moser has pointed out, that the payment of compensation as part of the private right may be called into question on the basis of the present draft, then we shall mount this to the Commission. We receive positive signals from the Commission that further drafts of the Services Directive will also ensure that we can implement not only our collective contract standards, but also our remuneration standards in such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7134	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speaker is speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7156	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to reply to Mr Mitterlehner, who meant that we, that is, the opposition, see a threat in everything – yes? It is still the right of the opposition to look at the bill critically, to critically comment on it, and thus perhaps also to force changes. The fact is that, ladies and gentlemen, if this Services Directive can be amended, it can also create opportunities for people: If people are good, the economy is good too. In this sense, we must reflect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What, ladies and gentlemen, does the Commission want to do with these framework directives? It wants to increase competitiveness within Europe, it wants to create additional incentives for employment, and this should not - and this cannot be overlooked - lead to social prosperity for people within Europe, so that people, namely all within Europe, do not have to tremble about their existence and buy the products produced there. This should be the aim of a common Europe. The fact is, Mr Federal Minister, that you have already said this today, that 70 percent of economic services within Europe are provided by services. However, this also means that a functioning internal market needs regulation, a level playing field in order to achieve the common social and economic objectives of the Community. It must not be so that they are interrupted, suppressed and levelled down by directives. The present directive on the common market, for which staff in this market are essentially based – and this has been said many times today – on the country of origin principle and largely does not, however, – what we would urgently need – rely on harmonisation of measures to create common, equivalent conditions of competition. It makes a difference, ladies and gentlemen, whether an Austrian company works in Austria, according to Austrian laws – or whether a foreign company, whether it is a Polish, Spanish or English company, works in Austria in accordance with Polish, Spanish or English laws. That's what lights every Austrian. Such differences, ladies and gentlemen, bring with them the country of origin principle. This Directive must therefore be amended in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Working under the legislation or laws of the country from which the respective company comes also means, among other things, that up to 25 applicable legislation exists side by side, and no one can control it. Two examples from the construction sector: A German architect with a branch in Austria makes the design. The engineer of a Polish company implements the design, with the construction management taking over a British company. After completion of the contract, serious defects are identified on construction. In such a case, the Austrian judge, ladies and gentlemen, has the problem, because what law should he judge the work done? After the German, after Polish or after English? Or perhaps Austrian law? However, the basis is the country of origin principle, ladies and gentlemen. Guarantee – another example: Instead of Austrian consumer protection regulations, foreign provisions would be applied when, for example, businesses from different EU countries operate at a construction site. Many – theoretically up to 25 – different legal systems would have to be applied. What are the rules in the case of complaints when the roof cover comes from Poland, the Czech Republic's tile army and the Hungarian electrician? Estimated Minister! Do you really want this to happen to the Austrians? I would like to ask you to work for these directives to be amended. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7228	Mrs Hellererer's next speech. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7249	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a very sensitive area, admittedly. Mr Oellinger, I actually know you as a very object-oriented politician. [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: No!]] They have today made a contribution to debate that was far away. They have dealt with reports from a German journal – it should somehow be harvest helpers – and have turned this into Austrian conditions. [[Abg. Oillinger: It was the “Vienna Newspaper ”!]] In any case, this is a case that has not happened in Austria, at least not as it was presented here. [[Abg. Oellinger: That was here in Marchfeld!]] Take note that in Austria, in any case, the agricultural workers' collective agreement applies to all harvest workers, that of course it is also applied and that seasonal eggs in agriculture are, of course, employed according to the legal conditions they rule in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are quotas for seasonal kidneys and harvest helpers. They are of course subject to the same conditions as domestic workers. It is always claimed to be a shift in the labour market. Therefore, please note: There is no market in this area in Austria. No one is willing to carry out this work in agriculture as a harvest aid or seasonal egg. We are very, very glad that the foreign workers meet us here and that they work with us. And they work under conditions, as they, of course, also apply to Austrian workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since February 2004 – this is the time when the EU Commission has made this proposal of the Services Directive – Member States are being intensively and emotionally discussed. This is also happening in this House today. It is also the right time to deal with the Services Directive. It is also necessary, in addition to the risks that exist to show the opportunities and not just to paint horror scenarios. They always focus on the fact that liberalisation of services will take place at a very low level. It won't be like that. [[Abg. Oils: Oh, my God!]] There is also fear of wage and social dumping. Instead, the aim should be to align this Services Directive in such a way that the standards we are used to as Austrians in the social field, in the environmental field, in the consumer protection sector can continue to be maintained in the future. Austria is an export-interested country and of course has a great interest in open markets. In the field of the single market for goods, this has also been achieved by far. There is not yet a proper internal market for services. It is important for Austria to take the step here too that services are liberalised, because Austria is a service exporting country. We have achieved a surplus in the balance sheet. Only last year has there been a decline in this area. We simply need to think about how to proceed here in order to facilitate the internal market in particular in the service sector, which is a very, very important one. This is also in the sense of small and medium-sized enterprises, which today are subject to multiple restrictions and, above all, have to overcome very difficult formal obstacles if they are to offer their services cross-border. They urgently need relief in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The country of origin is the focal point for cross-border provision of services. This has been discussed intensively today. It is true that there is a need for a framework here, and of course the Services Directive is to be seen in the context of the Entrepreneurship Directive and the Professional Recognition Directive. We are living in a Europe of the 25 states, and it is crucial to remove administrative and bureaucratic obstacles if we are to be sustainable in a global competition. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am convinced that even in the area of services, through the removal of barriers and, above all, by the use of the greater possibilities in the cross-border service, there are also More jobs can also be achieved for Austria and, above all, we can strengthen Austria's competitiveness.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7347	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7368	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the first item on the agenda, we discussed Europe today, and it is also at the second item on the agenda – the Services Directive is on the agenda – that Europe should be discussed formally. I have followed the previous statements very closely, and unfortunately it must be noted to God that the debate on how it is being conducted here today cannot necessarily be considered serious, especially as regards the debates of the opposition parties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are sluggish comparisons, ladies and gentlemen – and this makes me doubt in a way about the fairness of these contributions by the debaters. The problem areas are probably addressed, but also distorted, partly consciously distorted. I would like to draw attention to Mr Hagenhofer's point of view, particularly as to the first part of her contribution to the debate, because I believe that she has, in terms of content, also reflected my ideas accordingly. The second part of their speech, namely the example, is questionable. However, I do not think that you deliberately tried to represent something distorted, but you have raised the question: There is another German architect, another foreign construction contractor, another who makes the construction monitoring, the construction supervision, and then there are defects – according to what right does the Austrian judge have to deal with the Austrian court? Well, that is quite simple, because even in the case of cross-border services that are provided, the construction sector, especially in the technical field, the Austrian construction regulations, standards and directives, which are applicable here. Dear ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear – we have already found it several times today –: Growth is the engine of employment, and in this respect, it is a very essential area to pay particular attention to this sector of services. 70 percent of the total value added is allocated to this area. With regard to the implementation and, as I need, the removal of obstacles, there are various approaches. I do not share the view that, first of all, the harmonisation of which, according to colleagues, the European Union believes it is too complicated to take place in the harmonisation of the legislation of all the countries of the European Union. We lose the connection in international competition. We lose competitiveness and damage our economic location when we go this way, because this is a shift to the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day. Ladies and gentlemen, the essential thing is not to give examples. The Koreans were named with 2 €. These are illegal measures which are put in place here, which have nothing to do with the Services Directive and its implementation. Let me also mention that 946 amendments to this Services Directive have been tabled in the course of the review procedure. That means you've been very intense about it. I am also in favour of addressing problem areas and trying to find reasonable solutions. The Commission will draw up a modified draft of this Services Directive. I assume – and I think one can assume – that it will not lead to a wage dumping, that no spirals are in place that are directed downwards and that undermine social standards and wage levels. [[Abg. Oellinger: We already have that!]] Mr Moser has set the example with the football game. Well, that's what it's supposed to be. Or the example of the Billa-seller with the tape disc incident. - Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that is the way we should deal with this difficult issue in the discussion. It is not a question of creating uncertainty, but rather of identifying problem areas and offering solutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. As you have confirmed, my colleague, Mr Hoof, has brought in quite social, social and legal aspects, which have also been approved by you. At the same time, however, you have explained that you do not understand that he is probably addressing issues, but that he is still submitting this request, which has a completely different background or contains quite different aspects. Well, that's not true! My colleague, Mr President, has deliberately addressed problems. Furthermore, these were also referred to in this request. The Federal Minister will, if we ask him to represent this content accordingly. And I also assume that it will not be difficult for him to do so, because this is ensuring a really efficient control option, ensuring a certainly difficult but necessary efficient, complete legal prosecution. It is also important to note the derogations from the scope of the Directive. This is what the Federal Minister has to advocate. It is also necessary to ensure a very clear definition of the Services Directive from the Send Directive, so that what you repeatedly claim – that there is social dumping and a reduction in the social sector – will not take place and we have the advantage of reducing these obstacles – in an essential sector, namely the sector of services. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7422	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7443	Mr President. Perhaps you will also forget to stop speaking time, and I can also speak for as long as Mr Hofmann. That'd be nice! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has now been criticised several times that we are talking about things bad and problems here. I refer here to the criticisms made available to us by the House. This is the section in the House, which has also pointed out particular difficulties, inter alia, that the distinction between the draft Services Directive and other Directives, in particular the Send Directive, is unclear. There are great uncertainties, and this cannot simply be said away, Mr Minister, if you do not have any studies to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: It is confirmed that it needs a clear demarcation!]] How will this be confirmed if it is not yet carried out? It has been confirmed that the principle of origin does not work in the case of e-commerce. You already know that. I would like to point out once again that in these 25 different legal systems in 20 different languages it is not expected that the special profiters are micro- or small businesses. We must assume that these companies do not send people to other countries, even in countries with other languages and legal systems. This is known; there are also investigations. This therefore benefits the large farms in general. This is, so to speak, a continuation of the way in which corporate taxation has already been done: The Services Directive logically follows in order to allow companies the best conditions, but not small businesses and workers. In the case of workers, social dumping, which is feared, is also due, among other things, to the fact that in our country many non-profit organizations provide non-profit services. There is, therefore, a fear – and it has also been expressed by the Chamber of Labour – that the Services Directive may cause complaints that other providers would also want to be dealt with in accordance with the same criteria of public benefit as the non-profit organisations based in our country. So this is particularly about social dumping. I would now like to talk about a particularly important area, namely the environment, environmental services and fearful environmental dumping, which we Greens have already articulated here several times. There are already concrete examples of waste water disposal and sewerage in Austria, since there has already been a certain degree of liberalisation. Even in the fight against noise and vibration, biodiversity and landscape protection, this liberalisation is already in place. This is also on the website of the Ministry of Life. There is an example in Zell am See, where the entire canalization has been taken over by a private company and there have been several complaints about the fact that there is no contact in the Federal Republic of Germany and the office of the state government has also been largely ignorant where these complaints can be passed on to the customers, because the company has its headquarters abroad and has called for completely different legal conditions there. So these are not unmistakable calls, but there are already concrete examples. Another example is the blockage and waste disposal area. There is hardly any area where you can earn as much money as you can in the field of waste disposal. We all know in the communities these “Kaisers” on site, these large new buildings, where garbage is separated – or not. On this subject: We fear that sustainability will be completely lost, because instead of waste prevention, most of the waste will be exported to low-cost suppliers, in countries that simply offer according to their rules, to eliminate the waste. Especially the municipalities under enormous cost pressures will not ask how these companies then dispose of the waste in their countries. They're glad the trash's gone, so according to the motto: Out of sight, out of sense – and away with the trash! We are also at risk of the Lisbon objectives, which are in particular related not only to competition but also to sustainability. There you are far from sustainability. Our approach is to promote a limited range of commercial services. We want to achieve liberalisation, which is indeed necessary, especially for some very specific areas. In any case, we suggest that there should be a positive list here, with exclusively commercial services, in order to define exactly which areas the Services Directive should apply. I urge you, Minister Bartenstein, not for the reasons of the advances for your WTO Presidency and for the GATS negotiations in Austria, where there is no need, because the EU is still in a real discussion process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7496	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7519	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the alleged need for the Services Directive is often too unfounded in economic terms. For example, the European Commission itself spoke at the beginning of 2.8 million additional jobs, which are to be created, but which then quickly revised to 1.6 million – that is “only” 1.2 million difference – and at present studies by economic research institutes of up to 600 000 jobs for the whole of Europe speak grossly! This means that the jobs lost by the Services Directive will not be taken into account. The net effect is thus still in the dark. Only for comparison and memory: The European Commission's further liberalisation of public railways has cost almost 800 000 jobs in recent years and so far. The truth is that, to date, there is no sound impact assessment on the Services Directive, especially in the areas of labour market, wages, the environment, social security, but also in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, those small and medium-sized enterprises, which are undoubtedly the backbone of the Austrian economic structure and the domestic labour market. Of course, there will be service providers – that is undisputed – who will now be rubbing their hands on the draft directive: large workers' leavers, large trade chains, perhaps also large tour operators, who can choose their headquarters with ease in that country where the rules relating to their activity are only small. But what will be done, for example, by a small travel agency that has created itself with a lot of personal commitment, with few employees, if at all, a niche in which it can act, for example, that fulfils all the requirements with regard to consumer protection – and that is suddenly in competition with dozens of competitors who are subject to completely different conditions and can settle where they want, and can work in without restrictions to Austria? What should the small craftsmanship do, perhaps with only two or three employees? Should the one now get a “letterbox ” in Gibraltar? Does he even have the capacity to do this? I fear that these companies will be left here very alone. For countless domestic small and medium-sized enterprises – from installers to the cleaning industry, all of which are covered by this Services Directive – a competition that they will often not have grown creates a competition that we would rather call unfair according to our own legal principles in our country. In my opinion, it is in no way clear and clear why we should suddenly accept at European level something which we would reject internally as unfair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Currently, it will be undisputed that, in the end, domestic companies will be subject to stricter conditions than foreign companies, than foreign competition, which can work in an unlimited manner, while small companies, precisely due to lower capacity, cannot go abroad. The European Commission's motto, which seems to be taking hold here, should be as follows: First we jump from the ten-metre board head over to the swimming pool And during the flight, we'll see if there's water in there at all! – I mean, that's not the targeting way. Further example: After a short transitional period, which is now provided for in the Directive, an uncontrollable flood of markets will be purchased in the area of prized profits, in particular by the European Commission, which strongly promotes it. By the way, this is also in stark contrast to the money laundering directive, which has just been innovated – there are quite different rules inside it – so that, in the end, we support the intrusion of organised crime when the directive enters into force as it is now being discussed. In addition, there will be a risk of the often committed sport promotion of these games, which the EU's sports ministers have thankfully already noted. In this context, I can accept the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wittmann, Mr Beate Schasching, Mr Mag. Hoscher and comrades, in terms of service directive and gambling, in which the competent members of the Federal Government are invited to "in the negotiations on the Services Directive, work towards the exclusion of gambling and lotteries from the scope of the Services Directive" – in order to ensure the promotion of sport as well as in the interests of the tourism industry. For the estimates given above: I have already said that there are no well-founded foundations. Unfortunately, these have not yet been prepared, especially at European level. There are recent estimates of economic research institutes that expect those companies that will remain in Austria, in particular those of SMEs, to fall by 6 percent, while sales of foreign companies working towards Austria will rise by 21 percent. These figures should really lead to contemplation – and also lead to feelings, which will mean for small and medium-sized enterprises and thus about 70 percent of employees in our country. Conclusion: To sum up, we are of course in favour of a clear commitment to a fair and harmonised red tape reduction also in the field of services, but there is a equally clear call regarding the present draft Services Directive – and this call is: Back to the start!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7619	The next speaker was Mr Amon. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7641	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is actually a bit a pity that some of today's discussions on the Services Directive mainly focus on fear-raising. I don't think that's good. I think it would be a policy task to be afraid of just in the European Connex. [[Intervoke of Deputies Mag. Lap and Mag. Gaßner]] I think this is the right approach – and not to scare people. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mrs Sburny! I don't know if I heard that right, but: You have expressed your support today for Turkey's entry into force? [[Abg. Sburny: I said quite clearly: the goal is to join,...!]] So you said that the objective of the Greens is to join Turkey. [[Abg. Sburny: But not today!]] – I say to you: Our goal is not that! With such a statement, you're scaring people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Sburny: You have shortened the statement!]] Our goal is not that! We want open negotiations, and as a possible goal we want something like a qualified partnership within the Union. [[Abg. Sburny: That's what we want!]] It is certainly not possible that Turkey should be fully joined here. When we discuss the Services Directive, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is very good for the Austrians that they want to use services from other countries as easily and as easily as possible, and on the other hand, that employees and entrepreneurs have an interest in being able to export services as easily as possible without barriers. [[Complementary of the Abg. Felzmann.]] Especially a small, open economy like Austria, where we know that every second job is directly or indirectly dependent on export, should have an interest in facilitating the export of services as well. It is crucial – Mr President, I am very much of your opinion – that we – and there is, I believe, one in the House – do not want to do one thing: We do not want a form of social dumping, and we, of course, as legislators, clearly reject any form of payment under the collective agreement! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I don't think it's such a subcutaneous attempt to say a little subversive: Well, actually, entrepreneurship or industry in Austria has an interest in paying employees under the collective contract. – There are black sheep everywhere, of course, in every area, but we agree that we categorically reject such a procedure! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Nor is it true, Mr Oellinger, if you say that entrepreneurs are not being examined whether they pay the salaries in accordance with the collective agreement. – This statement is simply not true, because, of course, by means of the audit by the financial office, the entrepreneurs are also checked by means of the audits relating to municipal charges in order to check whether they pay according to collective agreement or not. It's just not the truth what you're saying here! We're interested that this is a good thing! It is controlled, and the entrepreneurs in Austria have an interest in doing so, and according to the law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The common objective, I believe, is to bring together the triangle – it has already been mentioned several times today – from the Services Directive, the Entrepreneurship Directive and the Professional Recognition Directive in such a way as to form a link that does not create any disadvantages for workers and, at the same time, takes account of the principle of openness of the Austrian economy. I also believe – and I believe we are – that control and compliance with these measures should and must remain at national level, because it is of course also important that we give our employees appropriate protection. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7780	Before calling for the actual correction, I announce that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Wittmann, Mr Schasching, Mr Hoscher, is properly supported and is therefore deemed to be tabled. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7836	Mrs Sburny has spoken on an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7898	Thank you, Mr President. [[The speaker turned briefly towards the Bureau.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: What was that now? Was that a sign?]] - Please? Mr Amon has found that I would have said that the Greens are in favour of Turkey's full accession. - That's wrong! [[Abg. Murauer: You said that! ... at least it belongs!]] I said exactly: We Greens are the goal of full entry – knowing that it must be an open process and that much remains to be done on both sides. – And by the way, that was the position of the ÖVP until recently.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7958	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7979	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, we heard that Austria is a global player in the services sector and that a large part of our economic power in the service sector is also generated in export. This directive is therefore an opportunity, but also a danger. When colleague Hagenhofer introduces a tower building here to Babel, with a Polish architect, a Czech tile army et cetera, and then says: And if there are problems, where are complaints?, then I can say: Mrs Hagenhofer! If they are two entrepreneurs, they can agree to the jurisdiction of my knowledge according to the law. And if it's a consumer, then the court place is his place of residence, who always did the service. So that's not a problem either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] No, not the directive! Your colleague! If I am a Viennese in Tyrol... – No, in Tyrol it will not be, Mr President, but: [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Dr. Khol and Scheibner]] When I build a house as Vienna in Upper Austria, I can do that – but not according to the Vienna building order, but according to the Upper Austrian construction order. The Tyroleans are a little more sensitive. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger is talking about dumping wages. – So I’m a wine grower, I know what we’re paying the harvest helpers in Vienna. - They're talking about strawberry farmers. Strawberries are green first and then red, but the strawberry farmers will still not be so much worse that they pay so much less. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already true that there will be areas of problem here, yes. But there are much more serious problems: We have regulated animal husbandry in Austria – leg battery ban et cetera – but we still buy products from countries where the production workers who do this work are much worse “kept” than in part the animals! [[Abg. Gradwell: Why don't you buy Austrian free-land eggs?]] We tried to make other products public yesterday with Fair Trade. It would also be necessary here to add to it and set up protective duties – although I am normally against it, but here it would be necessary – in order to make competition fairer in a way, too,... [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again.]] Mr. President? Please?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8034	The speaking time is exhausted, Mr Deputies. – Yes, but it is the rest of the time, Mr Deputies, and that is what it is all about. [[Abg. Neudeck: But that was not my wishful time!]] [[I should like to congratulate the liberals and the representatives of the ÖVP on the text which leaves the speaker's seat. Neudeck.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr. Eine, colleagues in the field of liberalisation of services, not at the expense of workers, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – It is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neugebauer, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the further negotiations on the Services Directive. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. (E 141.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sburny, colleagues, on the withdrawal of the draft directive on services. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Wittmann, colleagues in the field of services directive and gambling. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[13:30:07]] 3rd. Point of battle against terrorism: common task for Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8110	We are now moving to the third subject area. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Scheibner. According to § 74b para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8135	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have deliberately chosen the issue of “war on terrorism” here in the debate on Europe, because we believe that alongside many Points to which the European Union is concerned and which would be better placed in national competence, this issue of security policy should be one of the basic common tasks, or already in sub-areas which Europe has to bear as responsibility. The fight against terrorism is discussed very intensively everywhere, including in the media. There is always talk of a “new” challenge in security policy. – Well, it may be new to those who have not believed in the experts who have been warning about this threat for many years and who, in all scientific and security publications, also highlight the responsibility of politics – across Europe, worldwide, as well as at national level. In the public, this challenge is probably only since the 11th century. It became so real conscious in September 2001. The Federal Government was forward-looking here. Starting in 2000, we developed a new Security and Defence Doctrine and decided in 2001 – unfortunately without the votes of the opposition, since it apparently did not want to face up to this responsibility and involved itself in discussion of concepts, rather than together with us – we have already listed all these threats – to present a guiding line for a comprehensive security and defence policy in Austria. There is a need for action for all countries, including Austria. That is why it is very important to me that we use today's television transmission to wake up this awareness even among the population in Austria. We are no longer an island of the Blessed – if we have been there sometime – but we are also affected by this threat, whether it is directly in Austria or whether it is due to the fact that Austrians may be affected abroad. It is a task that Austria also has to face with full strength and full commitment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is a comprehensive threat, several times, whether it is a threat that one may encounter, perhaps militaryly or with police forces or at the level of justice, or in other areas. Experts say that the objectives are not predictable and that no one knows the time when and where which groups want to achieve their terrorist goals again. Two types of achievement are defined. One is symbolic goals, such as the World Trade Center. It may be said that Austria would not really be a target number one of international terror here, but it must be pointed out: Next year we have the EU Presidency, we will set up a European football championship, there are interesting transport connections, there are – and you should not forget that too – through Austria as well as across Europe important data lines to be protected accordingly. But the second target allocation for these groups, which is already our responsibility, namely whether targets are easily attainable. And this is also a signal that we have to put: that of course we will do everything we can to protect our sensitive infrastructure, that we will and want to protect our objects, including the airspace, accordingly against terrorist activities. There are also often threats that one does not have so “by the hand”. Imagine – and this is technically possible – that a terrorist group is affecting a satellite and GPS data, and if only small, manipulated and changed, and everyone, whether it is a car – it is not so tragic yet – but also Any aircraft that is GPS-controlled then suddenly gets wrong data, which reaches the height and location. Or imagine, for example, that water supply, even for a few days, would fail in a big city like Vienna – there have already been attempts to shut down Rome's water supply – or the electricity supply or – I have already mentioned it – data lines would be affected, which would mean for banking, for the entire business of a modern developed world! So we have become deeply vulnerable by these modern means of communication – and these terrorist organizations work with modern means. These are no longer these equestrian hordes somewhere in the desert – there are also some – that pursue their goals with any carabiners, but those are in part groups that are organized by the military, with state-of-the-art communications facilities, with state-of-the-art weapons to pursue their goals. And – you must not forget – they also have weapons of mass destruction at their disposal. Again, this is no longer the conventional nuclear weapon, but these are biological and chemical combatants – we remember the attack on Tokyo's subway. It should not be assumed that all of this is far away and has no effect on us. For us, therefore, it is important, on the one hand, to protect ourselves actively and passively against such terrorist activities, on the other, but also – at least as importantly – prevention: that terrorism should be really addressed at the root and that terrorist groups, wherever they occur in the world, should not be fed accordingly. In terms of protection, international cooperation is important, and this is precisely the European approach. Militaryly, we have European security and defence policy, including for crisis management, but we are still very far from a single line. Austria is also taking part. It's important to me to hold this today, too, because I hear again and again: Well, what have we lost at Golan? What have we lost in Afghanistan? - That's what it says: Get out of Afghanistan! We need our soldiers here! I'll tell you what we lost there: We have an immanent security interest when I take Afghanistan, for example, that there are stable conditions there and that we prevent farmers from growing poppy there instead of cereals, and from there drugs come to Europe and to Austria. The drug dealers who seduce our youth are doing this with drugs that are being grown in Afghanistan because people there have no other hope for the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are therefore interested that there are safe conditions there, also here in Austria. This has nothing to do with war operations, but in the interests of our own interests, we are creating security and provision in such a crisis region – I am going to be able to do so. This also guarantees security here in Austria. A number of things have been done at European level. There is the solidarity clause, which has not been decided because the Constitution has not been adopted, but it has been said that it will be adhered to. There is the 2004 Hague Programme, there are agreements with police and justice. The international networking of justice, prevention of money laundering, is also particularly important. criminal offences, as well as networking and cooperation with intelligence services. Of course, there is always a tension between data protection, the rule of law and this protection. I think you have to enter this tension ratio, you just have to make sure that the risk of abuse is minimized. I said: Prevention. In addition to dealing with the crisis, including military means, it is important to me to ensure that people in the areas of crisis have hope, hope for the future in their region, and that they do not respond to the false promises and slogans of terrorist or fundamentalist organizations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] An active European foreign policy, a common foreign policy, would also ensure that there is an objective mediator with Europe to deal with crisis. Finally, I would like to say – even that quite consciously –: All these terrorist activities are not the struggle of cultures. This is not a struggle of religions either, because there is terror under the cover of Christian religion and there is terror under the cover of Islam and other religions. There religion is abused for criminal and terrorist purposes. We must also express – here in Europe, but also in the crisis regions – that we do not participate in this game, that we do not meet these objectives of fundamentalists and radicalists. We must show that terrorism cannot achieve its objectives, that no targets can be achieved and implemented through terrorism. And this is a task for Europe, but also for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8256	On the issue of an introductory opinion, Mrs Federal Minister for Justice Mag. Gastinger reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8277	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! The security of citizens of democratic states has been established since the 11th century. The threat to international terrorism was enormously threatened by new and yet unimagined manifestations of international terrorism. Terrorism is more cruel – one can say: cynical – but also humane struggle is considered to be the values of the entire civilized world. Important is: They are all cultures, all religions affected. We just have to think about the places: New York, Djerba, Madrid, Istanbul, Beslan, Bombay and now London are examples of these findings. The first and most important lesson we have learned from it is: There is no justification as always for this kind of terrorism, but there is no visible enemy either. We must jointly protect our civilizations, remove terror from the ground with united forces, and must not forget the values that have made Europe a hort of freedom and security, but also a hort of human rights. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I agree with Mr Scheibner's assessment of the situation. Austria is certainly not a primary target for terrorist attacks. However, the globally networked terrorist structures also require a constant intensive observation of the whole situation. Here, in particular, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism has been active for a number of years, not least through the appropriate cooperation with the intelligence services of our partners in the democratic community. As an essential complement, Austria needs to work intensively on the policy of the European Union in this area, because our internal security is significantly influenced by the international situation. In particular, it concerns the exchange of information and data between EU Member States. Proper information and the best possible picture of the overall situation are crucial if we are to avoid future attacks as much as possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, we also need a better cooperation of all institutions at European level, dealing with the fight against terrorism. Austria has already launched appropriate initiatives in the EU framework before Madrid's attacks, such as a principle paper on internal security in the EU Council of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers. For a long time, Austria has also advocated a comprehensive prevention of terrorism, which must in particular be directed against the causes of radicalism and recruitment. The EU's efforts in all these areas have been particularly dynamic in the light of Madrid's attacks. They have led to the Hague Programme under the Dutch Presidency, the new EU Future Programme in the field of Justice and Home Affairs. This has already led to very concrete results in recent times. It was used by the anti-terrorist coordinator, Mr de Vries. There is also a fundamental reorientation in the exchange of information. This is also a very important point, namely, by defining the principle of availability, according to which law enforcement authorities in a Member State from 1. In January 2008, the available information can be obtained from other Member States in order to fulfil their tasks. The aim is to improve cooperation between the intelligence and security services, whose powers are to be used not only to counter threats to their own security, but also to protect the internal security of the other Member States. We are also working on a common EU location picture to which the so-called Situation Center has already made valuable contributions since the beginning of this year. It should also be said that an EU strategy for radicalisation and recruitment is already in preparation. In the Council of Europe, not only in the European Union, but also in the Council of Europe, the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism will be drawn up under the direction of a representative from my home. In addition to the EU, this provides for criminal provisions for the recruitment, training and training of terrorists, as well as for the approval of terrorist activities. On the other hand, States are obliged to take preventive measures in this area. And that is also an essential goal. I should like to remind you that in Austria, through the 2002 Criminal Code, we have already put in place very large legislative measures in this area. We have introduced criminal law provisions that allow terrorist associations, terrorist crimes and terrorist financing to be prosecuted. There are also procedural rules on interim orders to safeguard assets and on the monitoring of non-public behaviour and non-public statements. We've done a lot already, but because of the attacks of London on 7 July. On July 13, 2005, we all remembered them very well. A special Council of the EU Justice and Home Affairs Ministers took place in Brussels on 1 July 2005. It was agreed to continue to activate the fight against terrorism. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Hague programme, which I have already mentioned, is to be speeded up. Above all, we have undertaken to shorten the deadlines contained therein, in particular in the area of combating terrorism. Furthermore, there will be a revision of the already concrete action plan by the end of 2005. As a priority, the instruments already mentioned in the public debate in Austria in the field of data storage in telecommunications and the Internet as well as the European Code of Evidence have been mentioned. This means a simplified transmission of evidence to other Member States, information and data exchange, cooperation in matters of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the preparation of a concept for access by law enforcement authorities to the visa information system and also improved synergies between SIS II, VIS and EURODAC databases. Furthermore, I am particularly proud of this because it shows how active we are in the Justice and Home Affairs Council – on a proposal from Austria, this programme has also been included in the programme, in particular the transport routes and railways. We too, as Mr Klubobmann Scheibner said, want to pay particular attention to the protection of critical infrastructures. This has already been decided at European level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What I can still report at this point is that the Minister of the Interior, the Special Council, on 13 November. It also helped to inform the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers on the Prüm Treaty, which also provides special opportunities for combating terrorism, but also for combating crime. This is an initiative by Austria and Germany, which includes particularly close cooperation in the fields of security and can certainly be described as a pilot project, even in the field of information exchange. Austria, the Benelux countries, Germany, France and Spain signed the Treaty on 27 March. The so-called Schengen III cooperation was established in May 2005. We are really in a top group of the European Union, which is what this cooperation in the field of data protection is about. What is also particularly important in this Prüm Treaty is the fact that for the first time at the level of the European Union there are also special data protection provisions in a Treaty. This is a pioneering role that Austria is playing here within the framework of the European Union. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the field of data storage, which is currently under the UK Presidency, we in Austria will certainly insist on strict and restrictive interpretation of the scope of the data to be stored, but on the other hand also attach particular importance to ensuring that fundamental and freedom rights are not affected and data protection is also taken into account in particular. In the wake of the Special Council on 19 November, we met in Brussels. The meeting was held in London on 1 July 2005 with the Minister of the Interior. A common strategy of the three Troika countries, namely the United Kingdom, Austria and our successor presidency, was adopted with the support of the Commission. Of course it will also be a question of providing a broad framework for the fight against terrorism. There will be common standards for the storage of so-called traffic data for law enforcement purposes. There will be a list of concrete possibilities for implementing the principle of availability. Work on the programme for the protection of critical infrastructures will continue and the formulation of a strategy against radicalism and recruitment will be pursued. The Austrian EU Presidency will soon begin. For the time being of our Presidency, we have made four priorities: the actual improvement of information exchange, especially in the area of DNA and fingerprints; better coordination and use of existing structures; the implementation of the programme for the protection of critical infrastructures; and the implementation of the EU strategy against radicalisation and recruitment. In addition, the creation of an integrated EU crisis mechanism for crises with a cross-border dimension within the European Union and the implementation of measures to combat terrorist financing. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be right back. Three months before the start of our EU Presidency, we can hold on to this: Austria has played a major role in the European Union's internal security policy, particularly in the fight against terrorism in recent years. Together with our partners in the Salzburg Group, we were able to make a significant contribution to this EU programme. We Austrians are part of the EU Summit and will provide a broad framework for combating terrorism. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, I would like to stress how well cooperation between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Justice works in these areas too. We will continue to devote this to the common EU Council of Justice and Home Affairs in the future, including during our presidency. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8358	We are now going into the debate. The speaking time has already been announced. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8382	Ladies and gentlemen! I heard I had to take the time that the Federal Minister overlaid. Is that right? [[Calls:Yes]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, terrorism – or perhaps “the wrong word” – has always existed in various forms. We are only dealing with a new form, especially Islamic terrorism, which we fear most in Europe for the attacks of New York, Madrid and London. The form is new because it is no longer a matter of being extorted by extortion. It is not about the enforcement of very concretely traceable political demands, but about Islamic terrorism is a general attack against the West. It is attacked by the Western picture of life. And, as Kofi Annan has already said, this terror means a direct attack on our basic values. As you act, news has recently been presented in the ORF. There's a huge threat and fear. There is a message from El Qaida via the Internet, and this is a pure message of hatred. The announcer is masked and directs a Kalashnikov directly to the viewer or to the internet user, so you know what you are about. Reports not only carry the typical El Qaeda manuscript, for example regarding the situation in the Gaza Strip, but also the destructions in the south of the United States by the most recent hurricanes. The message is: News for the friends of the Holy War. That's how it's overtitled. So this is something that has never been in this form and is already reason enough to fear and take these threats seriously. In the background we have these terrible attacks of recent times. According to the Constitutional Protection Report of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, there is also the danger of terrorism for Austria, which is a radical Islamic minority living here, which can be motivated by attacks in Austria or outside Austria. This report states: In Austria, people who can be motivated by attacks have been identified. And they act very conspirative. In most cases they do not pursue a regulated professional activity. They travel in mosques, where they preach as radical Imams. And by the way, it says: “Many of the extremists have European citizenship due to citizenship or birth.” – This is the situation in Austria. The head of the Constitutional Service in Austria says that in Austria, not only international terrorists who have long organized themselves, but Austria is increasingly becoming the international hub for conservative meetings. – That is to say, Austria is no longer an island of the Blessed. And with good reason, here in Parliament, in part in agreement with all the other parties, in part, we have decided on ongoing measures to combat terrorism. Some have already presented the Federal Minister. I would just like to mention a few of them, for example, the creation of the crime “terrorist association” or “terrorism funding” in the Criminal Code, which is very important. We also introduced video surveillance. There is also the Cobra, this special unit, which is specially equipped for use in terrorist attacks. And we have also taken into account in citizenship law that no naturalisation of people who actually live in our country to the detriment of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This has been intensified; everyone has to meet certain conditions before he receives Austrian citizenship. There must be no more early citizenship. We demand a proof of integration and various other things. In this context, I really do not understand what Mr Posch from the SPÖ, other SPÖ Members and the Greens say about this change in the citizenship law. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You can't take the Posch seriously!]] Mr Posch of the SPÖ complained that we had the strictest and most restrictive citizenship law in the EU. We want this too, Mr Posch. Mr Posch wanted to be a citizen after five years, and he prefers to say that if you are born in Austria, you are already an Austrian citizen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He should tell you about this in Spittal!]] He has a faithful companion in Mrs Stoisits, because she too wants to do so. Everyone born in Austria should be Austrian citizens immediately. Untested! Ladies and gentlemen! That is not what we want, but quite the contrary. – I cannot take into account your call because my speaking time is too short. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I cannot join your motion for a resolution either, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. For example, they reject the long-standing storage of telephone calls that are being discussed – but you are still in favour of combating terrorism. They want to proceed according to the motto: Wash me, but don't wet me! On the basis of the experience gained in London, we know very well that it is extremely important to observe the telephone networks for longer than the time now foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen! I could say a lot, but the speaking time is limited. We must keep in mind that freedom is only possible if there is security. That is why, at national and international level, we are absolutely prompted to make security.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8471	The next speaker was Mr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8493	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In its introductory statement, Federal Chancellor Schüssel today outlined the task for the European Union as follows: He said that Europe must benefit people, and Europe must protect people. I think he has succeeded in characterizing the main tasks with two sentences, also in relation to the previous development. Europe is an economic union, an economic union, but Europe has also been a security union from the very beginning. We must not forget or neglect the character of this security union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Not least, the merger of the Western European states has succeeded in success in the Cold War. But now we are actually faced with a new situation, and now it is important to find an answer to it. But it is to be emphasized, as I have already said before, that terrorism is basically nothing new; it has existed at all times, both in the classical age and within all cultures and also between the cultural circles. In my opinion, it would also be totally missing to draw unilateral conclusions now and make unilateral allocations. In my opinion, that is basically wrong. What is really new about the new form of terrorism, which is not so much the actors or the goals, but is new that terrorism has actually got a new dimension: He's become global. It must be imagined that El Kaida is able to operate on four continents at the same time, that she is able not only to carry out attacks in subways, but that she has also committed the same thing against a high-security centre like the Pentagon, that she was able to perform operations on land, sea and air, and that she also has a special ability not only to finance, but also to communicate. This makes this new form of terrorism with the entire network that surrounds El Kaida undoubtedly a special form that must also be dealt with in particular. If you consider what you can do to deal effectively with it, then I say that it is especially necessary to develop a very precise strategy. She looks like this to me: The first thing I do – and I do handle in agreement with most experts – is to name the problem. We are not confronted with diffuse terrorism, but with an organization, which is called El Kaida. She has very specific management systems, she has very specific operational groups. And that's where it's supposed to be. The first step must also include fighting the cells. Therefore, it was undoubtedly right to go to Afghanistan and see that it did not come back to life. But it is equally important to combat the roots of the problem, the roots of terrorism, and there is undoubtedly one of the important pillars of the Middle East conflict, especially the Palestinian problem. If we want to have a short-, medium- and long-term successful strategy, then we must not ignore these problems, then we must not tabulate anything, but go into the middle. Austria reacted relatively early to this new form, namely in the military field, but also in the Ministry of the Interior and in the judicial sector. I think it's very important that we've started the news processing process. And there you can certainly pay tribute to the Army News Office and praise it, which operates in an internationally important and recognized way and prepares news. I also commend and acknowledge the Ministry of the Interior that it has not only succeeded in reorganising itself, but also in having a terrorist officer and trying to respond with a comprehensive strategy. This overall strategy is: prevention, preparation, prevention and prevention. If you look at it in a total way, you have to start with prevention, but at the end of the day you also think in the field of precautionary care, because no one can rule out the fact that something actually happens. It has already been characterized that Austria, of course, could be a potential target not only as a seat of important international organisations, but also as a transit country not only in terms of rail and road, but also in terms of energy systems and others. I would also like to acknowledge that we have responded comprehensively with very important reforms. I believe that what Mr Scheibner said in the introduction to the new Security Doctrine, and the military reform, which makes Minister Platter excellent, goes exactly in this direction. For me, the most important argument is to maintain the general obligation of terrorism. This means that we may be able to protect Infrastructural installations will need a certain man capacity, which we cannot impose through another system. And so it is very important not only to think systematically, but also to do so accordingly. I do not want to go into this at all when it comes to monitoring the data. In particular, however, I would like to point out the enormously important function of Europe. Of course, without a common foreign and security policy, the Palestinian question cannot be addressed to the Palestinian problem. In my opinion, Europe has an extremely important task on this issue. This is not a question to be resolved by a single country alone, but it is a task for the entire Community of Western States. And I believe that we must and can do a lot in this regard in the prevention and prevention. We must use every opportunity to support and promote the positive forces that exist on both sides, both Israel and the Palestinians, in order to reach a solution, because otherwise we may be the sufferers ourselves. I also think it is extremely important to further develop the measures already developed, for example in the Solana Security Doctrine or in the Europol sector. Of course, we are only at the beginning. Important steps have already been taken, and we must also assume that the EU competence framework is far too small, according to most people's views. In other words, we will have to help ourselves and, without a constitution, try to take steps to establish a common foreign policy in order to, at the same time, put in place new measures in the field of security, internal security and justice, and we must also take initiatives voluntarily. In essence, it could be said that the overall security picture has changed enormously. After a once reactive national defense and a more or less reactive fight against small crime, we are now faced with the situation that we must act proactively – proactively and jointly and security-politically in a comprehensive approach. If we do, we will also be able to tackle terrorism, then we will also be able to solve the problems in this regard. This will not happen from one day to another, but overall it will certainly succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8575	The next speaker to speak was Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8596	Mr President. High house! It is unfortunate that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has not used his present appearance on the government bank for the necessary excuse for his insults, which he has granted to some of the Members on yesterday's day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Debates of this kind, on how to combat terrorism, are always moving at the border of allegations between those who, through too few measures, facilitate terror, and those who, by means of measures, are close to the rule of law. I think that it must be a basic consensus of all to take action to combat terror, which are preventive and, above all, to help control the roots of terrorism. In this regard, I would like to follow the remarks made by my predecessor, for there is much to be done – whether this is in the Middle East or in the Middle East, whether it concerns the balance between the zones of poverty or wealth, or the opposites to the North-South with the related immigration movements. There are many approaches, religious conflicts, ethnic conflicts, which must be tried by means of foreign policy, but also by means of economic policy and monetary policy, because citizens have a right to live in peace here in Austria, for example. This is not only a question of judicial initiatives at Austrian or EU level or a question of measures of a police or even military nature, but it is also a question of measures at social, economic and political level. I come from an area in 17. Wiener Gemeindebezirk and there I am chairman of the Social Democrats. We have a very broad structure in this district, have different religions, ethnicities, different areas, there are also more wealthy residential areas and less wealthy areas. [[Abg. Gahr: Cabarets!]] And there is a need for a wise integration policy, a wise housing policy and a very wise policy of social and health care not to create any contradictions at all. And that's pars pro toto – that's not only true for 17. District, but of course for all Austrian districts, but I can only do the 17. Now bring in district as an experience. I think we need to add one aspect, namely the question of the flow of money for the financing of terrorism. We have talked about the social and political soil, but that also wants to be financed. The attacks in Madrid, London and other parts of the world and the discussion around El Kaida show that the aspect of the connection to donors with different backgrounds is not to be underestimated either. At least this must be made more difficult, and on the other hand, steps must be taken which, as I think, are also required by the citizens. I would like to refer to a current point in this regard. As you know, the Ambassador Conference on the question of the negotiating mandate for Turkey failed. There will now be, I believe, a special meeting of the Foreign Ministers. We expect the Austrian Federal Government to remain firm on this issue, that it does not agree to a text which does not include the possibility of the privileged partnership being an alternative. I think that is a very essential thing. One cannot replace this with a restriction on workers' freedom of movement, as I had to read on Sunday. That's ridiculous and not real. If one wants to define the term “open to results”, that can only mean that the result and the goal are open. This means taking the perspective of a privileged partnership in this text, because of the close and good relationship that already exists with Turkey. If, on the other hand, there is resistance, then I must say that individuals either seem to be boldly hiding that they are of the same opinion as Austria, or seem to be of the opinion that there can be blatant negotiations and that, in five, six or seven years, the EU's democratic, human rights and economic acceptability as well as the accession of Turkey should simply be implemented. This is also said for those who have a special concept of a NATO axis of London, Washington and Ankara or perhaps have other motives. I believe that this is important and that this minimum must be possible. We will support the Federal Government. It has to take a tough position – also at the price that there is a later date for the start of the negotiations, i.e. the accession negotiations not on 3 March. Start October. In any case, it is very important to take a clear position.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8651	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8673	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The threat posed by terrorism is one of the major issues of security policy, but it is certainly not the biggest threat to European security – and it should not be forgotten. One must distinguish between effective, well prepared and consistent persecution of terrorism within and outside Europe and attempts to justify entirely different political projects with the terrorist threat. I do not think anything about telling the Austrian population at all, but terrorism would be the fault of all, and that is why we have to put in place certain measures which we cannot explain otherwise. I'm just telling you a few examples. Mrs Partik-Pablé! If children with foreign parents are given two five at school, I do not think that the refusal of citizenship to these children is an effective measure to combat terrorism, but this is unfair, inappropriate and at the end of the day not particularly happening. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You didn't understand!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You didn't understand!]] If Mr Fassleven states that the last major argument for maintaining the general obligation of military service would be the terrorist threat and the fight against it, I would like to know the programme of the ÖVP, which explains how those present against terrorists are used. I certainly don't want to! [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's incredible!]] I also expect clarification on the part of the ÖVP that it is not intended to send entirely unprepared presenters who have quite different tasks in the fight against any terrorist organisations. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A third point, at least to the spectators and Today, however, it has been kept separate from the security committees, but it is the need for the interception hunters to fight against terrorism. And this is, as follows, always argued that European football organisations demand Austria to secure football matches with catch hunters. [[Abg. Murauer: Dr. Pilz! Please, that's all you're saying!]] Austria could no longer play and stand against other, like equally good international football teams, unless Eurofighter circles over the field. [[Abg. Scheibner: Once a serious speech about fungus!]] [[Abg. Gahr: Fairy fairy tale!]] Now, military in the National Defence Committee has informed us that Eurofighter has a feature that might make it useless for us to do so. If they fly as slowly as the attacking objects may do, then they become unstable and get in danger themselves. I assume that we do not get Eurofighters, but if this worst case of procurement occurs, then you should not abuse them for such nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen! We need an appropriate and consistent police security policy against terrorist threats, and I am surprised that no one has pointed out by the government speakers that the police in Europe and especially in Austria have responded better, and have achieved greater success in the fight against terrorism than those in the United States of America. And this has reasons for training, which has reasons for good cooperation with the population, but this also has reasons for a good Austrian and European tradition of rule of law in the persecution. I would like to point out one thing and warn you about one: On many points, the Austrian Federal Government is in the process of crossing very important boundaries to protect the private life of people in Austria. In order to combat terrorism, it is certainly not necessary to take the fingerprints of Styrian pensioners orburgers. In order to combat terrorism, it is certainly not necessary to keep mobile phone data, location data, the contact data of the mobile phone of all Austrian citizens for three years. This is not necessary to combat terrorism because the only ones who do not have to print their fingerprints on European authorities are the terrorists themselves because they are not citizens of the European Union. [[Abg. Murauer: But?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] You can take 300 million fingerprints of unsuspecting people, but you have no comparison fingerprints of terrorists. And the crucial question: How do you get to this comparison?, you have not answered this question to this day. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Completely wrong!]] We want security policy, not the generation of fears, from which political profits will then be struck. And that goes on all the time. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have suggested, although judges warn of it, although criminals warn and say: We don't need all of this! To keep the conversation data of all the people who call in Austria for three years. Do you know what the authorities then know about these people? You always said there would be no abuse. Last week we documented the first case in which the police have broken into editorial secrecy via a judicial order with exactly your monitoring methods. It starts with: The editorial secret will not be kept. No longer is the secret of the lawyer kept. Important rights are being dismantled in one piece at a time. Actually, in the fight against terrorism – and this is what I understood positively to Mr Fassleven – it is basically about the defence of our common system of values, fundamental rights, freedom rights, democracy. But to reduce fundamental rights and freedom, to introduce increasingly stronger elements of the surveillance state, to put aside the arguments of the criminal police, that we do not need this in this form, and to say: Security, whether it works or not, is more important to us than the protection of the intimate atmosphere, the rights of citizens and the foundations of our democracy!, which is ultimately a strange and paradoxical and completely pointless success that terrorists have achieved against our political culture and against what is Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing: Mrs Partik-Pablé, if, from your side, the Islamic minority, the Islamic children, the mosques and so on are brought into the meeting, and if it is already begun, with stereotypes of whole groups of the Austrian population being brought to a standstill, I would like to remind you of the following: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You didn't watch!]] Those who supported the Austrian executive to a very special extent in combating terrorism were the representatives of this community of faith. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: fairy taler fungus! You can't watch out?- Oh, my God!]] This is because it is crucial in Europe, but also in the countries of origin, whether it is possible to isolate the terrorist initiatives and organisations. In a final point, I would like to give Joseph Cap a word: There is a sample of credibility in the fight against terrorism: Whoever is willing to punish schoolchildren, take fingerprints of unsuspected ones, monitor millions of phones, but is not willing to stop the financing of terrorism, because with this “ordinary” banks can do quite “ordinary” business, he has not passed the nail test in the fight against terrorism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I think you don't know the laws!]] That is why I urge you first to create order in the financial field, to stop the financing of terrorism, to prove your seriousness in the fight against international terrorism, to support all reasonable, criminal police and security police, but to leave the human rights and civil rights in Austria and Europe intact! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8887	The next item is the report by Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8909	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz, you are making the risk of terrorism ridiculous here, and I find all the measures taken by governments to be disturbing. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: He didn't do that!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a repeated derailment from the Greens to do so, Mr Pilz. I'm allowed to reject that! [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: He didn't make anything ridiculous!]] The fight against terrorism is one of the main challenges facing Europe and also the Republic of Austria. I find this ridiculous to make, Mr Pilz, displaced. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: He didn't make it ridiculous!]] At European level, we have to deal with the common security and defence policy – and this is serious. We can oppose these fictions of multicultural society, Mr. Pilz, unfortunately God's reality today, and this reality is a sobering reality. Mrs Partik-Pablé explained this on the basis of examples and details. The disillusionment with regard to multicultural society is evident in Europe, and we have to take action on the basis of this development. No one has put a religious group in the corner here. It has clearly been the talk of radical, violent Islamic groups that endanger the security of Europe and also the security of Austria, and we have to take action against it. Ladies and gentlemen! At European level, the solidarity clause has been adopted by the Heads of Government regardless of the Constitution, and that is a good thing. The solidarity clause states that the European Member States are joining forces and helping each other when terrorist actions occur in a Member State, but also when disasters occur. This solidarity clause is a first real step in European cooperation in the fight against terrorism and we welcome it. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have at Austrian level to maintain these mechanisms, and these mechanisms are also – and the colleague Fassleven has gratefully already addressed them – military nature. I do not understand that this is always discussed by the Greens and also by the SPÖs and is always put in a corner that does not correspond to reality. Of course, no Austrian Federal Government will use recruits against terrorists, as you described here, Mr. Pilz, but the situation may arise that many people are needed to secure the important institutions of our civil society; Mr Fassleven has already mentioned this. The terrorist attacks we had in London, Spain or France point out that important infrastructure facilities are being threatened with extortional attacks by terrorist groups. They need to be secured. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Do you want to put present servants on the subway?]] Mr. Pilz, you have no variation, you do not offer a recipe! They're just ridiculous what governments are trying to do. That these attempts are all very difficult is not a denial, but we must use all the energies in the fight against terrorism, and that is also a step! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Austrian Federal Army is not only able to provide assistance in the event of disaster, but also in the security police field. The Austrian Federal Army has been doing this for several years at the eastern border of the Republic in order to prevent uncontrolled immigration, and the effect is justified. I am therefore particularly pleased that we Liberals also demand a clear priority in the framework of the German army reform and that the first priority for the Austrian federal army must be home protection, and only in the second line comes the national defence and then foreign intervention. No government, ladies and gentlemen, could afford to leave troops abroad if it needed them domestically. Ladies and gentlemen! I gather for us liberals: We must mobilise all forces in the fight against the threats of modern terrorism!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9003	Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9027	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Austria is not currently an acutely endangered country in the field of terrorist threats, but we must be extremely bright. Terror is the worst, most mischievous and loathest kind of organized international crime, because the attacks are targeted at public institutions, thereby harming innocent people, especially the civilian population, and because the attacks have devastating effects on the civilian population. International terrorism, as it did in September 2001 in New York or April 2004 in Madrid or this year in 7th. The problem is number one in the security field. This cannot be said away, and it cannot be said that there are specific measures to be taken where all the forces must be bundled. The above-mentioned attacks have shown that this type of crime can only be met in international cooperation and cross-border cooperation and that no country is completely safe from such attacks. The Madrid and London attacks have also shown that Europe is not only a logistic centre for terrorist preparations, but also, above all, the goal of international terrorism. We in Austria have already done many of our security homework. We know that with our political, economic and social stability and our integration efforts, we have achieved that we are not directly exposed to the threat of terrorism. Much has been changed in the field of the Ministry of the Interior over the past five years so that we can successfully meet the challenges of the future. This includes the establishment of the Federal Criminal Office, the realignment of the special units COBRA and WEGA, the merging of the guard bodies to prevent double-tracking and overlaps. One very important aspect was the installation of liaison officers in strategicly important states in order to improve police cooperation. However, we have also known since the Madrid terrorist attack that it is no longer enough to do security-political homework within a country in order to guarantee the greatest possible security for the population. Especially in the area of terrorism, there is a clear awareness that the protection of the population is a task that needs to be carried out primarily between national and international. Austria has always known about this international cooperation and is committed to European responsibility when it comes to the fight against international terrorism. Austria – the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice of the Federal Government and the Austrian Executive – has not only successfully participated in the various measures at European level, but has also taken the lead in key security measures. Again and again, the joint meetings of Justice Ministers and Interior Ministers in Brussels and at European level show that Austrian ideas in the field of security are very important. I just remember that former Minister of the Interior, Strasser, called for the installation of an EU Terror Coordinator in February 2004. Its proposal is not equally accepted. A terrorist coordinator was set up immediately after the terrorist attack in Madrid. With successful Austrian participation, the Hague Programme was also decided in November 2004. The objective of the Hague Programme – which has already been addressed several times – is a targeted cooperation in various security-technical areas, including the improvement of data networking in the exchange of information. The flow of information between the EU's national police units is one of the most important preventive measures against terrorism. There is no church tower thinking appropriate, but close and efficient cooperation is important. I am not of the opinion of Mr Pilz that non- DNA database networking should take place, that fingerprint databases and vehicle registration registers should not be included in data networking. We need this urgently in order to locate and avert dangers in advance. A massive European goal is also to combat extremism. Especially fanaticism, whether religious or ideological, is the greatest enemy of a peaceful and conflictless Europe. An important preventive measure is a targeted and meaningful integration policy, which has also been addressed, which is necessary not only in the national field, but also at European level. There is also a need for a European equation in the area of integration policy. I believe that the efforts of the Federal Government and the Federal Ministers at the level of justice, home and state defence have been very successful. It is certainly assured with Mrs. Interior Minister and Mrs. Justice Minister that this successful path will continue to be advanced in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9097	The next item is the report by Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9118	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the current EU session of Parliament, the National Council, has taken place is good, right, but not sufficient. The aim of getting better and more information, of holding debates here and of providing information to the public has certainly been achieved by this meeting today. However, I believe that it is good for us to apply parliamentary instruments in such EU meetings, as is otherwise the case in the National Council, such as the submission of applications, the holding of Question Time, the submission of urgent questions, ministerial quotations, and perhaps even the possibility of consulting a member of the European Commission directly in the national Parliament once a year. These EU debates should be an opportunity to develop a parliamentaryism of the future and not to fall back on Parliament's past. If I look at this history of development, namely at Parliament's right to the government, I must say: This form of today's sitting is more like Parliament's rights at the end of the 19th century. It's not good and it's not adequate for this subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would also like to make a comment on yesterday's President-in-Office's statement, which was received so strongly. You can certainly not force someone to apologize for a statement. However, my experience from a long time in Parliament is – I would have preferred to have said it to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic personally, but he is unfortunately not here – that if something like this happens, it is the most important thing to apologize. Then this thing is done. I think that's the normal thing to do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Then one should have apologized!]] But now on the important issue of combating terrorism. There have been statements in the previous debate, in the last speeches, where one speaker pointed to human rights and the other speaker said that the real measures should be seen more. I don't think that can be either. In addition to the important measures in the field of combating – legal, technical, legal; Europol and Eurojust at European level, comprehensive national defence, constitutional protection and anti-terrorism at national level, should be considered at the same time as the other side, taking into account: First: The fight against terrorism must not lead to the restriction of human and civil rights, otherwise the terrorists would have really achieved their first victory. Human rights must apply under all circumstances. I believe that our rule of law must be so strong – and so strong – that it must approve of human rights even those who act against it by force. Secondly, The fight against terrorism must certainly be decided and conducted with the necessary instruments, but it must stand on legally secured legs, in its own country, in Europe and on the world scale, therefore: Yes to the Conventions in the Council of Europe. The EU should join the ECHR. The ICC should be strengthened. But there should also be an extension of the torture convention: no torture in interrogations, no death penalty, and not in war law. Military operations in other countries should only take place with their agreement or on the decision of the Security Council; we have seen in Iraq how easily Tomahawk's boomerangs could be. Thirdly, we must ensure that a successful anti-terrorist policy stops more terrorists than it may help to create inadvertent or negligent. And we must take care of the roots of terrorism. This is not a sign of a reluctance to combat terrorism, but of the expression of understanding of interrelation. We must both succeed in the EU – the fight against technical law and respect for human rights!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9183	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek spoke. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9205	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! ==References== September 2001, there were four aircraft: two of them, Boeing 767, flew into the towers of the World Trade Center; a third aircraft was on its way towards Pentagon and also came to the crash there; the goal of the fourth aircraft is not exactly known to this day. However, there is a theory, which has been discussed for a very long time in the USA, that this fourth aircraft had the US nuclear reactor Three Miles Island as its goal to meet this reactor. This reactor entered history in 1978 as a very serious accident there – one of the most difficult in nuclear history! – In the end, the American citizens, as well as politics, have failed to build further nuclear power plants. I am here on a subject that is often lacking in a discussion on terrorism and security, namely the question of how Europe is protected or how it is not protected against terrorist attacks on nuclear installations in Western and Eastern Europe. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the meantime, only one country has been able to produce studies on how the plants are protected, namely in Germany. The findings there were terrifying. The study commissioned by the German Minister for the Environment, Trittin, concluded that none of the plants against a terrorist attack, as he did on the 11th century. ==References====External links==* Official website The average cars in Germany have a steel concrete coat with a width of about 60 cm. The latest nuclear power plants – which are ten in Germany – have a concrete concrete coat, which is about two meters thick. This means that the smaller, i.e. the older plants are protected just once against small aircraft – a maximum of 3 tons, 2 to 3 tons – at speeds of up to 300 km/h. The large, the latest plants may still be protected against fighter jets at a speed of 700 km/h, but in the case of a “attack”, a collision with a passenger aircraft that has up to eight times higher weight and up to 15 times more fuel on board, no nuclear power plant in Western Europe has a protective cover that is strong enough to withstand such a thing. [[Abg. Neudeck:... Take-off hunters...!]] This means that the total nuclear capacity in Western Europe is against attacks, as it did on 11 June. Has happened September 2001, unprotected! The Germans are so far the only ones who have looked at this in detail. We do not know anything about how the situation with the nuclear power stations in our neighbouring countries is around the Austrian border, whether this is Krško, whether the Temelín is, whether that is Mochovce, whether the Bohunice is whether the Pak is. We only know that these plants are all located in a radius of 100, 150 kilometres, in the most direct danger zone, around Austria and that the Russian reactor types Bohunice, Paks, but also Mochovce have no protective cover, no protective cover at all. With this problem, we are facing a huge challenge. The Austrian National Council has already adopted a resolution on this, namely that the Austrian Federal Government may use it, take this problem seriously at European level, accept it, and examine how to produce a corresponding terrorist security from nuclear installations. There are three main possibilities for this: first, wide-ranging flight ban zones around nuclear power plants, second, for the most dangerous installations and those near airports, where a flight ban zone is not possible to create an exit scenario in the medium term, so turn it off and third in the medium term rely on the exit from nuclear power in Europe in general, including as a means of security against terrorism, as a very important means for the Austrian population. Finally, something on the question of what this would mean by a German, a Bavarian nuclear power station. Even if only the external part of an nuclear power station, where the emergency power generators, which are cooling units, are damaged, may be able to say this within an hour to a so-called biggest adoptive accident: GAU, lead. According to the experience and calculations we have in this area, this would result in the contamination of more than 100 000 square kilometres of inhabited land in the densely populated Western Europe. [[Abg. Scheibner: And what are we doing now?]] I wonder why this is not a focus of the Austrian Federal Government. This would fit very well into the Austrian anti-atomic strategy! - No, I already said: [[Abg. Neudeck: Fear is too little!]] There is the possibility of setting up flight ban zones. In Germany, also absurd things such as a tactic of fogging were discussed, so shortly before an aircraft hits, a fogging machine is started. That's unscrupulous, that's absolutely unscrupulous! But for the most dangerous installations, which are also close to major airports, such as Isar and Biblis – there is even a route for combat aircraft, a test track, and this should in no way continue to exist together – there is actually only a logical requirement to switch off, in the medium term, exit plans. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You can't turn that off!]] In fact, I cannot understand why representatives of a party here in the Austrian National Council in Germany have spoken against nuclear exodus scenarios, who have taken a massive part in an election campaign, in which exactly this was discussed. [[Abg. Neudeck: Turn off is too little!]] With the German nuclear exodus, there will be no German plant on the grid from 2020 onwards. That is, Biblis and Isar are past – and I am “very sorry” for the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9311	Mr Fauland spoke on behalf of the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9333	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house! Ladies and gentlemen on the screens! High house! Not only since the London bombs should Europe be aware of the danger posed by organised international terrorism. Mr Fassleven said that the most important thing is to ensure that the people are protected from such attacks. This is not about spreading fear-maker theses or about any threat scenarios that are not tangible, but about a real threat to our Austrian population. That is why it is also very important – and I therefore welcome this – that this has been made here today. At the Alpbach Forum, which recently took place, a Swiss terrorist researcher, Mr Zimmermann, said: Europe is on a ticking time bomb! Fighting is no longer a national matter, the fight against it is a European issue, and this fight must take place in intensive cooperation between the European nations. We are plagued by different threat scenarios: on the one hand, the bombs we have all experienced painfully in Europe, on the other, and on the other – and I am my colleague Glavischnig very grateful for her presentation, because I will then go a little closer – the threat from the air. It has presented the threat to a nuclear power plant in very beautiful words and very well argues: the first approach of a terrorist against a nuclear power plant will be an attack from the air. It has then also offered solutions such as flight ban zones, where I can also go, only then comes the question: How do I monitor a flight ban zone like that? – And, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot monitor such a thing with a passive radar system, I can monitor something like this only with active systems such as a interceptor. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap has requested a national consensus. – Yes, of course, Mr Cap, national consensus on combating terrorism, but please a consensus that does not stop two meters above the ground, but moves up so far as you can still fly with normal aircraft. And as far as Mr Pilz's idea is concerned, I must say that it is unfortunate that we are here latently arguing with accusations which are not sustainable. On the one hand, there are demands for declarations of guarantee for the Olympic application of Salzburg as regards airspace security. These demands have also been raised by your colleague, the mayor of the city of Salzburg, and also by the social-democratic state policy, and for this reason find their downfall. As part of the Presidency of the Council, airspace monitoring as such will also be essential. This is also something that the media have found when, for example, the “Press” writes that the military’s competence should include airspace surveillance, so the need for the leased F5 or Saab, or when Security Director Buxbaum says that at high-tech conferences, the airspace must naturally be monitored militaryly. That this is not just an Austrian invention will show up for the fourth time in January 2006, not in Austria, but at the World Economic Forum in Davos. In Davos, the Swiss Air Force will perform an airspace security operation for the fourth time, and for the fourth time, Austria will support this airspace operation, because it is simply necessary to work together in this area because of the small state of Europe and the rapid flight movements. This is now done for the fourth time between Austria and Switzerland. You also recognize that even neutral Switzerland is turning to a neighbouring country and is looking for a cooperation that will then also take place. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Neutral Switzerland!]] Let me conclude by saying that – thank you, my colleague! – the scenario of the 11th. In September, not only a country would have met Europe: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Switzerland!]] If one lays the trajectories over Europe, then one will find that, for example, that aircraft that was hit in New York should have taken off in Milan, then it would have flown over Austria in order to finally reach Munich, because that corresponds roughly to the distance of flight. The other aircraft would have started in Basel, then turned over over Tirol, Salzburg and finally reached Bern. We see, the European airspace is small, and cooperation at European level is essential, even as far as the air is concerned! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9400	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9435	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Almost every day people die from terrorist attacks, they bring great suffering on families, although humanity should know that conflicts cannot be solved by force. In Europe too, we are not opposed to becoming victims of terrorist attacks. The recent attacks of suicide offenders on the London subway have led us in a terrible way that terror is possible everywhere and at any time, as it is possible with us in Europe. Just as terrorism operates internationally, the fight against terrorism is not just a country, it is only a country. Europe must stick together and take action together so that conflicts in our widths can be resolved exclusively on the negotiating table in the future. It is all the more important that the dialogue between cultures, religions and social classes remains constant and that our country offers security to all people. In Austria, we have agreed on a consensus that will help where the need is greater. However, when it comes to abuse and criminal activities, it ends with willingness to help. Clear provisions under which conditions Foreigners can be granted a residence in Austria, and asylum and integration are regulated in the 2005 foreign rights package. This Austrian asylum and migration management is largely an example of the ongoing internal European debate, as it was and is our Minister of Interior and Justice, who have been strongly committed to a European asylum regime at European level in recent years. By 2010 at the latest, a common asylum procedure is expected to introduce uniform standards in the EU Member States. Within the framework of the EU Presidency, our country will be able to continue this discussion process again and hopefully also speed up. In any case, the topic of asylum is at the top of the list of priorities in the first half of 2006, with good reason. After all, our country has granted over two million people refuge, protection and assistance since 1945. Around half of the refugees remained permanently in Austria. The terrorist attacks of the 11th century. September 2001 in New York, in a cruel way, has made clear to the world public that international terrorism can affect human beings but also economically the nerve of our society painfully. With the attacks in Madrid and London, we have seen that Europe is also a target of humane terrorist actions. Austria, which is not directly affected by terrorist attacks, has nevertheless contributed significantly in the last four years to the implementation of important internal security measures in Europe and the fight against terrorism. The Hague Programme is in addition to numerous other programmes of the Austrian manuscript, which has been further developed with the creation of an anti-terrorist coordinator. As a human rights speaker, I believe that our country is a guarantee that terrorism, migration and asylum policies are always in line with fundamental and freedom rights. The political causes have taken on global forces, such as the conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq or the Israeli-Palestinian problem. While respect for and respect for human rights and social rights must not go at the expense of legal or security measures, those who negate these fundamental rights of citizens do bear witness to new terror in the world. I am proud of the fact that, despite understandable displeasure about criminal and terrorist acts, we are bringing these fundamental values of freedom and human dignity into all our reflections. Therefore, in addition to clear asylum regimes, targeted integration measures are the aim of a working relationship. Extensive security for foreigners and foreigners can only be achieved if the dialogue can also be lived, through sufficient German knowledge with good training and employment opportunities. Austria is also a model for other European countries with a view to establishing a European migration and integration network. The willingness to engage in dialogue instead of terrorism is created in the perfect interplay of crime and terrorism control as well as integration. Only when people know that international crime in the form of trafficking in human beings and tow and terrorism is being fought hard will they also be willing to integrate strangers in their surroundings or engage in the necessary dialogue with other cultures and religions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Even though Austria is only a small country, in the area of respectful togetherness of different cultures and religions we are a great country.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9472	Mr Parnigoni spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9493	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Security is one of the most important goods in a society. To ensure this in our country of course requires extreme efforts by all Austrian parties, whether they are in the government or also in opposition. I therefore find it strange that the Minister of the Interior responsible for these issues is not present during this debate. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] High house! The danger of global terrorism, which we have felt bitter in many parts of the world over the past few months and years, but also within our continent, has become so great that, of course, we also have to make the most of our efforts at international level to counter these threats. I do not want to interfere now in the struggle between the Greens and the Liberals, but if security from terror is in relation to the number of fighters or interceptors, then someone has to explain to me why the worst attacks have been in the USA, Spain and England! So I think this is a very risky thesis, ladies and gentlemen, both by Mr Fassleven and by Mr Fauland. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Especially within the European Union, whose presidency we will be given next year, cooperation must, of course, be intensified in many areas. The attacks in Madrid and London have shown that Europe has now become a major target of terrorism in the United States. In the light of these attacks, the European Interior Ministers and the European Justice Ministers have called for action plans to limit this terrorism. However, I believe that social democracy, of course, should be taken into account in the development of such measures in particular that the European value system should be maintained at the same time. [[Abg. Grossruck: What is the European value system?]] Therefore, only such measures can be taken, High House, which is not disproportionately interfering in fundamental and freedom rights, otherwise – and that has already been implemented today – would have already been the first round to the terrorists. In recent times, the Social Democrats have also made many points about this problem and have shown solutions. We have called for a European action plan against terrorism, which calls for action at the levels of European integration policy, those of the social and economic terrorist networks, as well as increased efforts to achieve global peace initiatives. This European action plan against terrorism has been created, but it is urgently complementary and improved. It is also important to strengthen the dialogue between the EU and the Islamic world. Ladies and gentlemen! Europe needs to become a secure continent again, and Austria needs to become an even safer country – well, we could discuss it intensively – and there should be consensus between all parties, and we will also work to achieve this consensus. [[Abg. Grandruck: Stay! Stay, don't!]] One, High House – and therefore I regret the fact that the Minister of the Interior is not here – but last summer we had to take note of it with some concern: There seems to be a clear discrepancy between the statements made in the current Constitutional Protection Report and the situation of high officials from the Interior Ministry, for example, in terms of the terrorist risk potential in our country. While the Constitutional Protection Report suggests that there is no acute threat in Austria, the head of the Constitutional Protection says that we have a threat potential of 4 on a scale from 1 to 10 – 10. I think this is a very annoying statement; we expect clear and explanatory words. Is there such a coordination deficit between the federal government and the EU? How does the government, if there is one, want to fix this? Ladies and gentlemen! The European Action Plan has always been very important to us and we want to improve it, so I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We invite you to join this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9582	The motion for a resolution by Mr Parnigoni, drawn up just now by Mr Parnigoni, ladies and gentlemen, on the addition and improvement of the European Action Plan against Terrorism, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9643	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Time remaining: 10 minutes, your speaking time, Mrs Deputies: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9665	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and in front of the TV screens at home! I very much welcome the fact that we are today – for the first time! – this day of Europe in the National Council and here in fact discuss and discuss a wide range of European and, of course, Austrian topics. Wermutstrophen is here for me – and I must stress this, like many of my previous speakers, – that, unfortunately, during the negotiations on the relevant regulations in the Rules of Procedure, it was not possible to convince the government groups that it would make sense to invite Austrian and other MEPs here to these EU debates, even the Austrian Commissioner or someone else from the Commissioners. Only that would make this debate a real European, I am convinced of it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr. National Council President Khol has justified today – I have listened with great attention to his remarks in the 'Morgenjournal' – why this has not been done. He said that the National Council was the stage for the Austrian MEPs and the European Parliament as the stage for the MEPs of Europe. – Mr President Khol! We live in this Europe! Europeans or Europeans, this is an attitude, and it should also be expressed in joint debates and in joint listening and joint solutions, and not in the statement: We are, and the others are the others! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Perhaps in the future there will be another change in these Rules of Procedure, which will then look different. Now on the subject of the current debate, namely terrorism and the fight against terrorism, what is to be done here. In recent years, terrorism – and this is true – has become a new dimension: In the past, the groups had a relatively clearly defined political goal; the current “modern” – modern under quotation – terrorists have no conventionally clear political concept, which deals with the achievement of broader ideological goals, which cannot be established on a territory or on rights for a particular population group. It is against this democratic system of values that we have created, against freedom, against human dignity, against human rights, very strongly against women's rights, against the separation of religion and state that we have fought hard and hard in Europe for years and centuries, but it is also against things like the Convention on Human Rights, the UN Charter, all that is behind this multilateral system. The separation of religion and state is, after all, an extremely necessary and important principle that we have achieved in Europe. In this context, I would like to speak on the current debate on the accession negotiations with Turkey. Just this separation from religion and state, which Turkey as one of the very few – if not the only one; no, it is not, but one of the few – states with a Muslim majority, is for us, for the Greens, one of the reasons that we have supported and supported Turkey's accession efforts. That is how it is considered to be extremely unbelievable if, over the last few days, the Federal Chancellor has shown a position that shows quite rigid resistance to the formulation of a negotiating goal – a negotiating goal that he himself agreed to a few months ago. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: This has always been his attitude, not only in recent years!]] The wording stated that the objective of the negotiations is to complete Turkey, but it is open whether this can ever be achieved, because Turkey still has a lot to do, and the EU still has a lot to do. – This formulation was approved by Federal Chancellor Schüssel a few months ago! – But today he says: No, we need an alternative; it must be written in! - That's incredible! This means that the word of the Austrian Chancellor no longer applies. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can be g’scheiter!]] We believe that it is necessary to stick to this target formulation, and I very much hope that Austria will stick to it – even where we will be taking over the EU Presidency in a few months! This does not look like we're going to be in the European smearwinkerl now and not participate. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Quite the contrary! Austrian interests are represented!]] – A good service to Austria and to the coming EU Presidency is certainly not if this rigid attitude is maintained! In the fight against terrorism, however, it must also be clear that even the best protection – of course always under the title of the rule of law, the domestic state – is not enough for security measures to be put in place. There is also a need to work very hard on solving issues of origin, conflict prevention, problems at the roots. It is also about the European Union and thus Austria having the global responsibility to work towards political, social, economic and environmental stability, starting from the fight against poverty and so on. Political solutions can be found, for example, in relation to the Middle East conflict, but also in the health field, in the environmental field, there must be clear action against threats in order to improve people's chances for life and to create future prospects, so that young people in particular have prospects – and not run the risk of drifting into radicality, where some of them then go the way of terrorism. In this sense, I also hope from the Austrian Presidency for measures that also address the issue – and not just a compulsory event without a kiss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9754	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes, welcome time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9775	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The international terrorism and the terrorist act since September 2001, both in the European Union and in the United States of America, have adopted an extent which was not even present in this form ten years ago when we joined the European Union. Pre-voicers have rightly said that today's terrorism, with its objectives, wants to fundamentally attack and undermine our democratic, free society and create a different social picture. Many of the freedoms that we have fought have also been evaluated in the context of the fight against terrorism today and in some respects also been scraped back. However, all of us in the parliamentary legislative bodies will have to ensure that we do not introduce an overwhelming police state on the one hand and thus oppose the terrorists on the other by restricting freedom to the extent that a free society is finally undermined. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would also like to express my express thanks to those forces in Austria who are preemptive in this area. This includes the EKO Cobra in the national area, whose employees are highly trained and trained. However, this includes, above all, the Austrian Federal Army with its troops, which are also engaged abroad and have proved – whether in Afghanistan, Kosovo or on the Golan Heights, as observation officers in the Sahauris or the Far East – that they are not only performing security tasks, but also working with humanitarian projects and educational projects on the ground to bring medium-sized people, prosperity, education and training to those countries where the international use of soldiers is necessary to restore peace and freedom after civil war, after war, or after terrorism. – A warm thanks to our soldiers at home and abroad! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a former Austrian social minister, I am grateful to the many social projects that our soldiers have implemented and become, for example, a school for women in Afghanistan, kindergartens for war orphans or the current establishment of middle schools and teaching workshops in Kosovo – together with Sister Johanna, which I should also like to thank Mrs. Federal Minister Gastinger for her commitment to Kosovo, but also Mr. Blatter, I can offer the most beautiful greetings of Sister Johanna; he also always supports them in their humanitarian efforts on the ground. This, ladies and gentlemen, is prevention against terrorism, which is the building of prosperity, and this gives young people hope after a war, so that they do not enter the catches of terrorists, but come into a welfare society of Austrian influence.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9854	Mr Magistrate. The main motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Helene Partik-Pablé, Günter Kößl, colleagues in the fight against terrorism and the protection of critical infrastructures, as well as in the fight against terrorism, is well supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9911	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9932	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful for this discussion today, because I think, especially in the case of European and global terrorism, it is possible to show more clearly than elsewhere how important European cooperation is in this area. Austria alone could probably only defend itself very badly. On a few points which I noticed in this debate. Mrs Lunacek, Mr Pilz, Mr Cap, I have noticed that all and in agreement have mentioned the fight against the causes of terrorism. – Yes, we are there; there is a Europe-wide consensus about that. We want to fight terrorism at its roots. However, we must also note, ladies and gentlemen, that real terrorism already exists in Europe. Something needs to be done, as terrorists are often well equipped and trained and have virtually all the means and possibilities to terrorise Europe and the world. Terrorists use our system of values, ladies and gentlemen. Our value system is exploited in order to be able to support its value system over our so-called value system. We must be careful and not leave a gap in the area of security open. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to be vigilant! The example of Mrs Glavischnig points out very well: Anyone around the world, Mrs Glawischnig, will tell you that not perhaps the airspace – including the Austrian airspace – can be used by terrorists to deal with the Austrian population?- Oh, my God! Every gap in the security system will be used by these forces! Therefore: an absolute yes to the procurement of our interception hunters, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr. Pilz – unfortunately he is not here now, I would have liked to tell him personally – every terrorist organisation needs money, fanaticated people, weapons and equipment and logistics. Mr Pilz has pointed out that we are not doing anything to undermine the sources of money from terrorist financing. The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen. We have to start immediately with arms trafficking, drug trafficking – drug trafficking is a major source of terrorist funding. I remember when Members of this House seriously discussed the release of drugs here in this House. It must be said: an absolute stop, an absolute no to drugs and their trade, because otherwise terrorists are financed by them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Prostitution, trafficking in human beings, organ trafficking, child pornography, donations traded in mosques, credit card fraud, fraud: a variety of ways that terrorists can finance their activities. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not just that the money may buy bombs, no, the money is also used for training, bribery, the purchase of ID cards, passports, documents and travel. That means we have to be vigilant at all levels – and there are not just the banks that deserve! We have to be vigilant, and I tell you that serious work is being done to create a financial intelligence authority in the European area in order to counter precisely these developments. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say quite clearly that every procurement process, every law we decide nationally here, is democratically legitimate, but no terrorist ever needs to comply with a law. Mr Parnigoni – he is not in the hall either – you mentioned London in your speech. [[Abg. Broukal: I'm here!]] I then asked myself the question: How was that then, when we discussed video surveillance here in the national Parliament, in the Security Police Act, with legal instruments, where was the opposition at that time? - Please, that's fight against terrorism! However, they did not vote in favour of the opposition at that time. The London attacks would not have been clarified today, if the English had not already been able to watch video! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] We stand by this, even if it becomes critical and serious nationally, ladies and gentlemen. And I ask you not only to give lip confessions, but also to stand on the matter when it really comes to your voice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: Also Austria is not an island of the Blessed. In 2004, 14 times were determined because of the suspicion of terrorist financing, 6 times more often than 2003. It amounted to more than 50 million US dollars! These investigations have led to either the sources of money being lost or the terrorist activities being stopped. We owe this to a constitutional protection in Austria, which works best, is best networked internationally and Europeanally. It is precisely this cooperation that we need to stop terrorism once and for all, although I am aware that it will not be done by police alone. We must work together here at all levels of society in order to excavat terrorism and eliminate its roots.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10005	Next, Mr Magistrate. Johann Maierzu word. 4 minutes speaking time. The Group's remaining speaking time: 9 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10029	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to issues of internal security, issues of combating terrorism, it is also about data protection. Data protection is a tension between the protection of privacy on the one hand and internal security on the other. I therefore believe that these problems can only be solved in a European context – I am going to be consistent with my previous speaker. However, I do not go with him in his efforts towards the opposition, nor can I go in conformity with the insult by the Federal Chancellor here in the Austrian National Council. We are still awaiting the apologies of the Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: ( towards SPÖ) Most are not there at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we jointly put in place anti-terrorism measures, then some conditions must be required. First point: Decisions to combat terrorism must not be taken without the exclusion of the European Parliament and the national parliaments. Second point: Terrorist action must be characterised by respect for universal human rights and the rule of law. Third point: Fundamental rights intervention, as in particular in the area of data protection, must be proportionate, terrorism control must not be a general free letter for fundamental rights intervention and for the restriction of civil and freedom rights. Fourth point: We need independent data protection authorities. - High house! The EU Commission has initiated proceedings against Austria because the Data Protection Commission is not independent. At the same time, Mrs Federal Minister, there is an increased exchange of data between Member States – you mentioned the Prüm Treaty. I wonder, How can an independent data protection authority be secured and established in Austria? The last point is very important: We need to carry out a permanent review of the need for fundamental rights intervention if they are to be implemented. High house! There are some examples that are currently being discussed: the questions of the storage of Internet and telecom data, the questions of high-security creases, where digital data is stored with a radio chip, and the basic question, under which conditions there may even be an exchange of data. Mr Pilz has pointed out the problems in the storage of data. There are people who consider them necessary, others do not. For European data protectors, this data storage is neither appropriate nor proportionate, as measured by its objectives and purposes. It is a frontal attack on EU law, in particular on data protection law and the European Convention on Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We should consider the conditions under which we allow such data storage. High-security bags with radio chips – I ask you: Who will be the winner? That's going to be a few big companies. And the security issues are not solved at the moment. At a large German congress, RFID was not referred to as a security feature but as an uncertainty feature. . We need to discuss this in this House. Finally, the following: If there is an increased European exchange of data, we need new rules at European level. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a new data protection law in Europe that meets these challenges. We also need data protection authorities. Data protection, the protection of privacy, is to be defended by us in this internal debate as the fundamental right and to bring it into line with other protective goods.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10080	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The Group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10101	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. It is difficult to defend the impression that the most visible product of the war against terrorism today is no more and no less than more war and more terror. This has been said by former Australian Foreign Minister Gareth Evans, president of the International Crisis Group, not too long ago. I mean, these are really true words, because – and I do not place that completely, not completely in today’s discussion, but anyway – there is a certain agreement that there is no way to win the fight against terror by means of war. I can make statements that have come here today, like: We simply don't need to take the general obligation of military service and those present in order to protect Vienna's subways seriously!, because proposals or thoughts of this kind have enormous insanity and inappropriateness to those who may be concerned that this leads to our today's discussion ad absurdum. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your speeches are evidence of ignorance!]] I would like to use the last few minutes of the Green Group to ask the Minister: Mrs. Minister, you were in Newcastle, Mrs. Nickt, and I suppose the Minister for the Interior was also in Newcastle. In Newcastle, the British Minister of the Interior has made a proposal in connection with the problem discussed here today, which should have triggered a call from you, Mrs Minister. The British Minister of the Interior has put all serious things in the room and has given an incentive in this regard to relativize the European Convention on Human Rights in connection with the fight against terrorism, so to speak, and to see it as an inappropriate instrument or as a disability in the fight against terrorism. Mrs Minister, I have missed a cry from you in this regard! – Are you aware, Madam Minister, that the European Convention on Human Rights in Austria is in the constitutional rank that the EMRK is part of our Constitution? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can still discuss them! You can discuss them!]] Are you aware that the protection of freedom and fundamental rights is an elementary thing and that any proposal made within the European Union to relativize the European Convention on Human Rights – Mr. Peter Schieder has also mentioned this in his speech, but not so specifically referred to this occasion – must be rejected with utmost determination? Because, Mrs. Minister: If we are talking about common values within the European Union, this means exactly those set out in the European Convention on Human Rights. And if the protection of common values is really at our heart, then it must be the prime objective of Austrian representatives in European Union bodies – and that was one of the highest bodies – to work to protect these common values. – We missed that, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because – and it really is my concern to repeat that –: Human rights are indivisible! That's the top principle. We cannot risk this indivisible human rights out of opportunity because something might not fit us culturally, or because something seems to be a non-combatable challenge. That is why this fight against terrorism – this is my final sentence, Mr President – is a struggle that cannot be waged by military means, but by civil society and police. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That alone is not enough!]] And we will all be supporting this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10185	The debate is due to the word of Mag. Posch closed. The Group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10207	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The moral dilemma of the fight against terrorism was already evident for the first time after the Olympic Games in Munich when the United Nations actively wanted to engage in the fight against terrorism, but several Arab, African and Asian Member States opposed themselves on the grounds that peoples who would be oppressed and exploited would have the right to join forces including violence. So: The war of the terror of the rich, the terror of the war of the poor? Whether religiously evocative or ethnic-nationalistic – it is important and crucial that few determined terrorists can do very much damage with little effort, with violence being used indiscriminately against the civilian population in order to generate fear and insecurity. So how to combat terrorism: rather by means of operational measures or rather by planned structural measures? At present, above all, the narrow technical-military view of terrorism is "enhanced" which reduces the various phenomena to the force-technical side, but the causes are hardly analysed. However, a permanent limitation of violence and counter-violence can only succeed if it is accompanied by a regulation of the material contradictions, which in many conflicts are the main cause of terrorism. Whoever asks the question of the best means in the fight against terrorism, has to ask the material question, he has to ask the question of the proportionality of the resources used, he has to ask the question of the legitimacy of a war, the civilian victim as a collated damage with, or the question of the consequences of a highly stylized campaign against an Islamic state to combat cultures. The fact that the military fight against terrorism has so far not been very successful proves the terrorist attacks to targets in the United States and Europe. The crucial question becomes increasingly important as to how the balance of interests between the task of fundamental rights on the one hand and the growing surveillance on the other. It is close to demanding: even more video surveillance, even more data storage, even more grid surveillance, even more noise attack. There are a lot of traces that can be left behind by phone calls and the Internet or recorded by video cameras. But can it effectively combat suicide offenders and terrorists, effectively preventing such attacks? With the increase in monitoring and control, More security is generated – and what is the price for it? Can democracy and freedom be defended by cutting down the basic values, freedom of assembly, the integrity of private homes, the secrecy of letters and telecommunications? I therefore welcome the European Union's focus in 2005 and the following years on research into the causes of terrorism and the development of a long-term strategy. It will not be possible to avoid seeking the political causes in the fight against terrorism, and it is necessary that the preventive surveillance state is not the final end of wisdom. The tragedy of the targeted execution of an unparticipant by head shot, as it happened in London, proves not least how much the violence of the state eventually turns against its own citizens and undermines and destroys all confidence in security and the integrity of democratic and open society. What else did I want to say? – And by the way – that is still quite, very important – I believe that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic would not fall out of the crown if he apologised for the verbal derailments today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10243	Mr Partik-Pablé. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Time left: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10265	Ladies and gentlemen! The larmoyant demand of the SPÖ since yesterday that the Federal Chancellor should apologize, I can't win anything, because how often have you offended the Federal Chancellor here, and no one has come to the idea of apologising to the Federal Chancellor on occasion! [[Lively condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want the applause to shorten my speaking time, because as the last speaker I would like to comment on some speeches. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] – Mrs Stoisits! Please don't bother me. You've already talked. Mr Mister Pilz – he is no longer in the hall – comes, talks and goes again and is not seen all day long. This is his contribution to parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Glavish!]] Mr Pilz has caused fear in the usual manner, but not fear of terrorism. In contrast to all the other Austrians who are afraid of terrorism, Mr Pilz is obviously not afraid of terrorism, but he was afraid of the state measures against terrorism. For example, Mr Pilz has argued that he and his group are opposed to the fact that the discussion data, not the talks themselves, but only the numbers of connections, will be kept for a long time and that there should be fingerprints on them. He made that ridiculous. He said: Among the poor countries of the castle or poor Austrians, however, will not be terrorists! – Mr Pilz pretends to know who the terrorists are or where to find them. [[Abg. Scheibner: Maybe!]] We don't know, and that's why you just have to put across-the-board such measures as fingerprints or the storage of conversation data. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Glavischnig has presented in a very impressive way what happens to us when a nuclear reactor is threatened by a terrorist attack. That's right! We're all afraid of that. Mrs Glavischnig, do you not believe that such an attack can lead to very, very many preparatory actions, which can, of course, be controlled by the most modern monitoring methods, perhaps reveal, perhaps prevent? This is very important to us, but it is not the fear of Mr Pilz and the other speakers from your group who are in favour of state power. Mr Pilz said we need an appropriate police activity. But what is appropriate, Mr Pilz. I remember when Mr Pilz asked for the police to be disarmed. And he also demanded that there be no border police at the borders of Austria It's supposed to be a service, but it's a social worker. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So there you can imagine what Mr Pilz calls appropriate. Mrs Lunacek, you meant that Austria is making fun of itself, the Federal Chancellor is now putting himself in the smoulwinkerl, because we say that we are not in favour of Turkey's full entry, but there must also be another possibility. If we insist on a position, why do we put ourselves in a smear wink? - That's not to be seen! Be for full entry – but we are not! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one more sentence: Our task in politics, in national and international terms, is to ensure the safety of the population. That's our top job.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10352	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Parnigoni, ladies and gentlemen, on the addition and improvement of the European Action Plan against Terrorism. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request does not find the majority in the House and is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Helene Partik-Pablé, Mr Kößl, Mr Kößl, Mr von Wogau, on the fight against terrorism and on the protection of critical infrastructures and on the fight against terrorism. Whoever supports this request, I would ask for a sign on this matter. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 142.) [[15:42:46]] 4. Point European challenges for Austrian higher education policy
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10415	We now come to the topic “European Challenges for Austrian Higher Education Policy”. I give the floor to Mr Grünewald. According to § 74b para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed its term of office for 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10439	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, we met you. Since you do not like to hear the word “problems”, these two hours at our request refer to “European challenges for Austrian higher education policy”. The question is: Are Austria and the Federal Government facing these challenges: yes or no? In the balance, of course, the EU is a positive and huge opportunity for Austria as a knowledge and research-based area in its own definition. Even this EU court judgment should not prevent us from looking at it in this way. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What only surprises me is the following: It must be known to you that equal treatment for all students from EU countries is a very high and high-quality Community law, which should prevent discrimination against EU citizens and students on the grounds of their nationality. Now, however, the question arises: Why not see this mobility of students as a positive, because it also greatly facilitates Austrian students' stay at foreign universities? Then where does the precarious situation come from now? The Federal Government has known this jurisdiction of the Court of Justice on these crucial issues of equal treatment for years. If you had just read this simple but very good brochure of the Parliamentary Directorate on the present chapter, you and the students might have been better off, because it is clear that the Judicatur has already given the most massive evidence in 1988, 1992, 1994 that your political belief in the Austrian legal situation will continue to keep more than a mistake. That is to say, the Austrian legal situation had to be recognized by you as a temporary commission. I'm just wondering: Why didn't you respond? I am sure it is also true that the previous governments in which the EIA, Mrs Brinek, was involved, if I am not mistaken, yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For years, you've been running bird-strauss policy. It was also denied to find arguments that might have influenced or made more tolerable the ECJ decision. If the European Court of Justice even gives further instruction and gives us assistance by saying why Austria has only mentioned numbers in the field of medicine, and claims that with regard to other Numerus-claus subjects in the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Austria and your ministry do not have any data material, then, I must say, I could still understand this if your ministry had been founded before yesterday. But it's an insidious insanity that you have to listen to such a thing that we don't have sufficient data. They have also made no proposals for a European solution. If I hear the argument of the Federal Government, we were forced to wait for the judgment, we are hardly stupid to think before, if we do not know the Court of Justice, I wonder what would happen to a court of law. – It would have to resolve if it said that we would not act with lawyers until the judgment was given. That is also something on and not understandable in itself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, you have pushed the black Peter – and I stay here – to the universities. There, of course, it was not possible to find fair and satisfactory solutions, even in Parliament after three days of negotiations, because of the maximum time pressure or time lag. So if we are now open and honest, we must admit that ad hocly there is no patent solution that can be satisfactory. But why? - Because you haven't prepared yourself. There were also the criticisms of experts who meant: Why has the Federal Government not tried to produce a suspensive effect of this EU court ruling? – We would have found sufficient reasons. The judgment came a few days before the beginning of the period of inscription. That's a reason to argue: Please put it on, because we're in an insoluble situation! – That was not done either. Finally, your failure to act or not to act in an optimal way – I am very friendly – has led to the fact that the course offer is limited. And then tell the audiences in front of the televisions whether they know that Austria is the only country in the OECD countries next to France, where the number of students is smaller in 2005 is lower than in 1999. It's also a record, but not a great one! – Mrs Hakl, you will not correct me, read the OECD reports! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] This is also a contribution to the knowledge-based society. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This means that an EU solution must be sought urgently. And here the visits of a German State Secretary who is understanding somewhere and says that we will make an effort, we will think and start a working group, little. What I would like to do would be to increase the density of the negotiations and make them transparent, including for students and their parents, for Parliament, for the Scientific Committee and for the Austrian population. The laws you have passed and the universities are facing huge problems and the students are still larger, limited to two years. In other words, we would already have to know in about a year where Kahn University is heading, because otherwise a whole generation of students will be hit in the head and massively discouraged. And to discourage young people, you won't want to, I agree with you. But maybe we should go to the positive things. What could you think of or address? If it was possible through the Bologna process to move all EU countries to a trinity of study, if it was possible for the EU to acknowledge that a 3 percent of the gross domestic product research rate should be a binding objective for all countries, why not also on a voluntary basis – for the first time on a voluntary basis – achieve a commitment to higher education rates and require countries to set their budgets accordingly? Of course, it is bizarre when Germany, Great Britain, Ireland and Sweden – Norway does not belong to the EU – advertise in Austrian newspapers to find Austrian doctors, but in their own countries, students refuse access to medical studies. That's scurry! Of course, we can consider whether there should be transfer payments to compensate for or a regulation of student flows, but we do not mind, Mrs Federal Minister, that will not be possible in a few months. I come to other things, which is positive. The EU is leading us to become more knowledge-based, research-oriented. And that's where I tell you: Please stop these lip confessions, stop these consecrations! At least, let's just come there to say that we want to be very simple and modest, not to become big-sized, but to reach the OECD section. – Then we needed more than 100 000 students to get to the average of OECD students. It is rather grotesque if, in the field of mental science, entire fields of study have to be closed out of lack of money, where the EU says, also in its definitions of a new doctorate, that interdisciplinaryity, cross-disciplinary studies are something important, and these subjects are also highly valued. That is to say, the EU's opportunity to represent a knowledge-based cultural area, which is also research-led, should be used by Austria, not only for the reason that we then get the best and most competitive economy, but also because it allows participation in education to be valued and for itself and the scope for action of individuals with more education. That's a good thing. It does not deal with defensive strategies, EU enemy images and lip confessions. Now no more than 380 places outside of medicine for the so-called Numerus-claus subjects in Austria are missing. At least try to finance that! We shall make a request on this point. Coming to the end: One of the Lisbon goals is innovation, and this is also an opportunity for us. But I must remind you that education policy measures of the Federal Government are actually less innovative than repressive, Keeping the budgets stagnating and even sinking? And if it is cleverly assumed that there is a need for study space restrictions and admission barriers, and in addition, especially in the field of pedagogical universities, which have a lot to do with knowledge, education and education of young people, only cheap political change is dealt with, innovation is not a debate, but only the treacherous word “leading” at the door of education policy, and that is what you cannot and cannot want.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10576	Mrs Gehrer spoke on the presentation of an introductory opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – Mrs Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10597	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for saying that you do not accept that I would like to discourage the students. You are right, but we should not dishearten them together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We should encourage them together to take up those studies for which they feel called, to which they have a real turnaround and a real vocation. We know that in many areas of study beginners make false ideas. We have therefore strengthened the information for the seventh and eighth classes. I think this is very necessary to have real numbers even in student flows and to save young people that they may start a wrong study. And I looked at the numbers exactly, especially in medicine. It has changed a little over the past few years, there are fewer changers. I don't want to call the young people who go into another subject of study, I think that's the wrong word. They often finish a different course of study. But it has been shown that about 30 to 40 percent of medicine in particular switch to another subject after two semesters. Why do I say that? Ladies and gentlemen! It is particularly important to us that we – and I am grateful when proposals come from you – find a way together with you that we allow enough young people in Austria to study medicine so that we have enough medical research in Austria. I am clearly saying that it is not about Austrians being treated only by Austrians, but it is about the fact that enough young people can study medicine. If you assume from an annual number of graduates, which is currently about 1,200, if you calculate that there are some who also change, then you also need a corresponding number of beginners. To achieve this number of students, this is the great task that we have set ourselves in the framework of the European Union for the next six months. And we have made preparations, as I would like to say, Mr Greenewald, but the consequences have been drawn when the judgment was there. To take consequences before there is a judgment, I think that is the completely wrong way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] We have made all preparations, we invited the rectors of the medical universities in Salzburg in February to a conference where we have already discussed the possibilities of admission conditions at the medical universities. We then had a large meeting in April, organized by the rectors' conference, on the possibilities of admission to the Numerus-claus subjects. We have worked intensively on that when the judgment comes – you are right, it has come at a very bad time, we have tried to delay it, it was not possible, you are right that this inconvenient time of 7. July was...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10638	Mr Jarolim, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10653	We have made sure that the University Law 2002 is in Parliament, that if it were on 7 June 2002 we would be able to do so. On July 8 the judgment comes, on July 8th. A change to the university law is made on July 1. That was the precautions we've taken. The universities have prepared themselves, and I could read to you a whole list, just from the University of Innsbruck, as they have already begun in May to make their preparations. I don't think we should put the rectors like they wouldn't care about their universities. We have 21 skilled rectors who care best for the universities, and I would also like to thank 21 rectors who have implemented the new university law that has turned our universities into independent institutions with a lot of fingertips. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. May. Worm: All men!]] I know that this is a thorn in the eye of many ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and I sometimes notice with horror that they are horribly structurally conservative because they still want the old structures because they still want to work according to old modalities. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Hierarchies and so on!]] We want these modern, independent universities and we have thus set a mark in Europe. We have set a sign of a new university law, which is seen in many countries as very progressive and as a way of the future for European universities. As far as mobility is concerned: Mobility is a top priority in the whole area of the knowledge landscape in the European Union. Austria is first and foremost with mobility, Austria is also primarily within the EU with the students who come to us from other EU countries. We have had 2 740 incoming students and 3 350 outgoing students in the last study year, which is an enormous number. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a goal in the university field to enable many young people from other countries to study with us. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Yes!]] Look at the music universities: There are up to 40 percent students from other countries, and we are delighted about this. In the same way, however, it must be a common goal for us to allow young people who really want to study medicine with love and passion to study this study as well. [[Abg. Mandak: Yes!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the working group was set up. We also discussed ourselves in great detail with European legalists. The judgment of the European Court of Justice gives us the opportunity to prove that this is actually disrupting a uniformity of the Austrian education system, namely the access of young people to the university. If, at the latest, we can prove this with figures, data and facts in November, we also have the opportunity to propose positive discrimination in the medical field in order to ensure study places for Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! We'll do the same. We have found understanding of this, the German colleagues support us. . I mean, it's not so ridiculous if you get German support. We have also come to the Commission for understanding and have had discussions with the Belgian authorities. I also have signals from France that one is very interested in this problem – I really say: Problem – is also discussed at European level. However, I would also like to make it clear that: It is incredibly important that we have a common scientific area, a common research area, a common educational area, but the European Union has no legislative function and no legislative competence in the field of education. I continue to argue that responsibility for education remains in the hands of the individual Member States. I do not want to hand over this competence and this educational agenda to the Commission or to the European Union. – This must remain national law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will present proposals to the Commission on the possibility of making an emergency solution – I call it – if not enough students from Austria can study medicine. But I have a great request to all those responsible in the university area: Please don't paint scenarios on the wall that could discourage young people! Don't paint scenarios on the wall that discourage those responsible at the universities! [[Abg. May. Worm: This is also a question of money!]] – It is not a question of money, Mrs Colleague! There are enough places to study in 162 areas of study. There are also enough places to study in the fields of publicity or business. There is a problem with medicine, and I would ask you not to conclude quickly either. Just today, the rector of a medical university has told me that every day students return to school, and there are people who can go back from the waiting list. We will do everything we can to allow enough Austrians to study. We will put the figures on the table in November and I am grateful for the support of the House so that we can reach a good solution for the young people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10758	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10779	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! That you can have better consequences only after an ECJ judgment, that is already right and clear, but you knew that this ECJ judgment is coming and you could have prepared for it better. You could have led the bilateral talks you had with Germany, for example, after the ECJ judgment. You could have spoken to the Commissioner before the judgment, and not just afterwards! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is, you either did not consider the consequences, or you bought them – and that, I would say, is negligent. In one point you are right: There is a central error in the public spirit of European higher education policy, and it is that there is such a mistake. There are all kinds of declarations of intent, wishes and wishes, of course there are also the provisions from other areas – as we have now experienced in the Anti-Discrimination Act – which ultimately participate in European higher education policy. Finally, however, it must be said: In the field of education and higher education in particular, the principle of subsidiarity applies, and that means that the Member States themselves are ultimately responsible for it. However, despite this principle, there is also a growing interest of many countries and the Commission – the Commission, for example, in its April communications – that there should be a greater degree of European higher education policy. These communications also state the reasons for this. One of these is, for example, the academic rate, which in Europe is only 21 percent. This is damned in comparison to the veritable competitors, such as the United States, where the academic rate is 38 percent, or Japan with 36 percent. A little detail on the edge: Austria has 14 percent of academics according to OECD reports. – This, of course, reduces the cut of Europe enormously. We are, as it were, guilty of this bad cut in Europe. Of course, something has to be done. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] In these communications, the Commission is proposing something, namely a significant increase in the budgeting of universities in the Member States. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission is talking about €150 billion, which should be shot annually. If we convert this to the population of Austria, this means that for Austria, we should spend €2.5 billion more each year on universities so that we can compete with our competitors. You know that we demand €800 million more for the universities. – So that's less than a third of that amount. Nevertheless, you shake your head off the government, and it's too much for you. However, we would have enough money for the Eurofighters! So, I'm of the opinion that as an investment in the future, this would be the better investment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: At the university debate! That's primitive, the argument! Or can you not?]] Financing is important, but we know that it is not the only important thing, especially if there is no plan for how the money should be used. Of course, for a better academic ratio, there are other things to consider besides funding, such as studying the motivation. Ladies and gentlemen! If, after studying, there are as few opportunities as we can find work in Austria, then I can imagine that young people think twice about whether they are suffering through any seminary for five years, standing in any laboratory and getting into the books when they're finished, just the same thing as if they hadn't done it. [[Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] [[Abg. Lentic: A pity!]] This is also a good reason to change higher education policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Another reason is the offer to the European universities, but in particular to the Austrian universities, because at European universities differentiation is much lower than in Japanese or American institutions. In Europe, it could be said, the same thing is being offered about everywhere. I know this from art, from the museum landscape: Today you can drive in virtually any smaller city, everywhere there is a nice museum and practically everywhere is the same thing to see. This is historically certain, therefore, that the cities used to be responsible – even in the educational field of course – for meeting the needs properly. Mobility was not as great as today, and that means that it had to be available to everyone in the city, so to speak. But that was earlier! Today mobility is much bigger, and I therefore believe that it is an outdated view to want to continue this model. One could say, of course, that we in Austria do not. That is not true, however, because there is the example Innsbruck. A new Faculty of Art is now to be created. Of course, that's a little gratifying. – Bravo, you could say. But watch out. What is foreseen in this faculty? Education for music and visual art, why? – Because students do not have to travel to Salzburg, Graz or Munich. This is where the same thing is offered. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the completely wrong way for good training! It's going in the wrong direction! This regional thinking, that every city would like to offer everything, leads to the conclusion that, of course, there is too little money to really satisfy all these needs. Secondly, no reputation can be created either. A European higher education policy needs to better differentiate its tasks, structure the offers, and universities need to be clearly different from each other. This also means, of course, that the basics must be taught everywhere and that these foundations must therefore be accountable. These are the tasks of a common higher education policy, Mrs Minister! If you say you don't want that, I'll say, We Greens want that already! This does not mean that we want to determine the teaching in detail, but it is a question of enabling the structures to be taken over in Europe, so to speak, and to be systematically and gradually corrected by Europe. Take Graz, for example: I don't know if you know that the school for poetry has wanted to install something like a university institution in Graz for many years, without success. [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: This is at work, Mr. Zinggl! We'll do that first!]] This would be exactly a gap in the entire training landscape, which would create Graz an excellent reputation in the German-speaking area. What's going on? - Nothing! It is not done because we may even be afraid that even more Germans could come to Austria, because such an institute exists in Germany and nowhere else. [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: But no!]] It can't be that way. That is why I believe that there is a need for an overarching European higher education policy, because, of course, such a thing is much easier, though in Germany and in other countries differentiated institutes are created with special offers. This has nothing to do with professionalism at all, but on the contrary: Exactly the cross-border offers are missing everywhere! Innsbruck thus opens an institute for pedagogy, in which practically one can be found the same offer as in Graz and Vienna. At the same time, comparatistics is locked up, and so to speak, there would have been the gap. Could not be found in Innsbruck Put together compatistics and, for example, the school for poetry, creating a kind of Mecca of the German-speaking novel, the German-speaking drama, the German-speaking contemporary literature, where do all come from? The problem too many foreign students would, of course, be much easier to solve, and the Commission – you too, Mrs Minister! – wants to create mobility – a side effect that would be solved. For all of this, I believe that a common higher education policy in Europe is needed. In the context of financing and any financial compensation, too, there is a need for such a European modeling, because I believe that perhaps as a state that has to send its students abroad, because there is no offer, one could also pay into a common pot – in a common European pot from which money could then be re-emerged specifically for regional deficits, i.e. practically a kind of financial compensation. To conclude this, I would like to say: We need a common higher education policy. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion, I would like to apologize, Mr President, for the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10925	The motion for a resolution by Mr Zinggl on the defence of open university access in the Member States of the European Union, drawn up by Mrs Greenewald, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10997	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11018	Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would really like to return to the European dimension of our debate and thus bring Austria to the right light. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call to the Greens:... very much said about it!]] To remember: ERASMUS, the strongest, oldest, most traditional mobility programme in Europe, is named after Erasmus of Rotterdam, the medieval thinker and philosopher, who has proved how travel forms and how to study the journey. I am therefore pleased that the Federal Minister has been able to say that Austria's students are among the world's mobility champions. This is a beautiful balance sheet, a beautiful interim balance that we can draw today. The development is also pleasing if you are aware of the number of students in Austria, and it is also gratifying that we have exceeded that point that was still in the 20th century. In the 19th century, study was a minority programme for those who could afford it economically or who were committed to the name of their family or tradition. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: We are not groundless in 21. 19th century!]] – I said that until then it was a minority programme; we have overcome it. We've overcome it. This becomes clear when we also present the comparison figures with Bavaria or Baden-Württemberg. – There we are better, although there are the prosperous countries and centres of Central Europe. We also have a better number of students than Switzerland, so please compare what is comparable and look at the current challenges. Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer has already mentioned that for many years – more than ten – we have benefited from the fact that we have been able to anchor a special regulation in the course of the EU negotiations, and we have known that one day we will have to say goodbye to it. Now there are particularly wise heads that have always known when that should have been, or when we should have set ourselves on it. There are also particularly insensitive colleagues who believe that they should have intervened and particularly lobbyed. So I have a legal understanding that already has a certain respect in front of the Supreme Court, and certain things cannot be solved by intervention. That's what we are waiting for, and that's exactly what we've done, well prepared, well prepared, as the Federal Minister has already described. We all, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, were at the conference in the Veterinary Medicine Union, the symposia of the rector's conference, and from then on we knew that it will probably go in the direction of access regulations. Why? – Because all of Europe – at the time it was 24 out of 25 countries, we were the only country – knew and practiced access restrictions and access regulations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] For this reason, other countries saw no reason at all to deviate from their practice, to suspend or to say goodbye to the restrictions on access, but they said: Do what good universities in the world have so far done, namely, university specific access regulations. Therefore, esteemed gentlemen of the opposition, it is not useful to create uniform, Austrian-wide access regulations for medicine, psychology, BWL, pharmacy, biology. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's not what anyone says!]] – That is what you have said, ladies and gentlemen. – It is that there is no overview and that the Minister should make himself strong for uniform regulations and regulations. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No!]] – But: It doesn't make sense. Then you said from the opposition to the day of judgment, you're actually talking to me, but you didn't want to hear the reputation of the universities. They did not want to respond at their request to help them solve the problems. The students and the ÖH have said: Oje, ÖH-Wahl, we actually want to lean back. But now at once it can not go fast enough with the development of solutions! I am very glad that there is a package of measures to be taken as to what variants are in question. However, I am closing down on solutions that go open eyes towards EU resistance. – This includes Brno’s proposal as well as some others. I would just like to consider a scheme that is also securely EU-compliant and is not unequalistic. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already mentioned the fact that other countries have access regulations that we have to rely on them as a whole. It's not new either. I read in the “standard” in summer, that green boss Van der Bellen can also imagine or even wish that quality standards should be tested for all students after a year, i.e. access schemes for all – regardless of which source school. So the Greens want access regulations after a year. We need to talk about that too. It has also made proposals to the head of the Science Council as we deal with this issue. We just can't lock ourselves up and try afterwards to push anyone a black Peter. What makes me particularly happy – that's why I also took the “Small Newspaper” – is that there is no longer any overstated fear. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the “Small Newspaper” up to date.]] ‘Uni Graz: Many more places than candidates’. This means that we can already find relaxation in the non-medical sectors. This means that applications and pre-registrations mean that they are not serious student numbers. It seems to have been applied for at the first minute at several universities, and these free spaces, which are now de facto remaining, must be applied wisely. I am already in favour of Mr Broukal's proposal. In the preliminary talk he told me and also announced in the media that it would be an emergency package. I always resist such overdramatized terms for something that is just some sort of pragmatic measure. 700 students are no longer, Mr Broukal, as you yourself admit, it is only more than 380, i.e. almost half less. I asked exactly: Psychology Wien, BWL Wien – that’s all wrong. There is no emergency package to be provided, because psychology has always been a kind of ring lecture and a decision-examination during the course of the study. That is, the conditions have not changed. There are no excretion exams at the beginning of the entire university in Vienna. So you can calculate the total numbers of the University of Vienna. The University of Graz has free places in BWL and psychology, and the responsible vice-president says, anyway, are now studying those who really and seriously want to study. I am in favour of all efforts being made to increase the number of students. However, it is not done with the definition of a number. The former head of the rector, Winckler, then referred to the number 300 000 for Austria in the long run. We have encouraging developments in the high school sector, we have encouraging developments in the university sector. We also have to deal seriously with the question that the OECD is telling us, for example in the field of science, technology and mathematics, we would have to catch up. As far as other areas of education are concerned, we should also consider whether we are as good as we are indicated, namely in lifelong learning. But if we continue to develop the budgets, if we are developing global budgets towards service agreements, if universities have had experience with the first access regulations, we can certainly develop further useful measures. I am very glad that, in view of these comparative figures, which we have to get used to more and more – it has not been Usus to date that we are being compared with other countries, that our actions are in some way in a position to assess our budgets – and continue to be among the best in Europe in the future. We have a support relationship, my esteemed colleagues from the opposition, from 1: 13, so a scientific supervisor, 13 students; in the OECD the ratio is 1:15 and more. So we stick to the truth – and we continue to develop our quality together in Europe, in the European University and Education Area! That's a challenge. If we do so in the joint dialogue government and opposition, we will succeed, and then we can be satisfied. A motion for a resolution will then be tabled by Mrs Bleckmann. I ask all of you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11119	Next, Mr Broukal. His speaking time: 10 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague. [[Abg. Broukal: 10 minutes? Mr President.]] That's the wish I've been told.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11169	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany turns into a member of the government who is obviously in distress, then it has to mean evil. Mrs. Gehrer, he was unnecessary with you. We pay attention to you, we appreciate you and we are sure – at least from the SPÖ – that the next weeks will still bring relaxation after it has gone down and over in the summer. If I have listened to what Mr Brinek just said, you have said what has happened to the ÖVP until yesterday, but not what Mrs Gehrer said this morning. [[Abg. Steibl: This was very well done and very competent!]] Either all previous proposals are EU-disputed, or it is true what Mrs Gehrer said this morning at a press conference, namely that there are five opportunities developed by European lawyers to introduce new restrictions on foreign students in the medical fields, but which remain critical of the ECJ, and that one should simultaneously try to ensure that, apart from the court proceedings, there can be a political solution that, as it were, amends the legal basis on which the ECJ is judged or forced to judge if it is called upon. Mrs Brinek, may I ask you – otherwise we always talk very well together – to stop thinking that I have asked for intervention at the European Court of Justice! If I put something in the room back in April – and there are enough living witnesses of this event here – then it was that I have already demanded what is at hand for every thinking person at that time, namely that when you see something like this comes to one, that does what everyone does in court proceedings: See if there's a friendly solution, see if I can prevent this judgment from happening. Not by intervening with judges – how stupid do you think I am?! – but by intervening with those who make the laws and regulations that the judges then have to judge. Please! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] So I think sometimes we should also maintain a certain academic level of discussion. This applies not only to you, but also to me. Of course. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Are you a academic?]] What kind of question is that? [[Abg. Großruck: You can't talk about it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Whether I'm an academic? No, I'm a drop-out. My academic title is “Mag. Drop-out’. This has not prevented me from going a very successful life course [[Abg. Großruck: (in the direction of the rear bank series of the ÖVP) They are also very successful!]] [[Some ÖVP members from the back banking series point out, obviously to signal that they are not academics either.]] I've been wondering for years: When will the first ÖVP-ler ask me if I am an academic? This rose belongs to you. Congratulations! The stupidest question of the day. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition: Are you a academic? - Not either. Hey! We're two. Let's go get a drink! That's what's right with me. Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, we have to climb a little into the downfalls of the last few days and we have to deal with the fact that once again the appeal to university autonomy has not led us to the goal. It does not help us if we say that the universities are now only a few years autonomous, they need to learn, they can't know everything yet, that must develop when this learning process takes place on the back of young maturants. It is incredible what has reached all the political parties and mandates from all the federal states where there are universities in the last few days at e-mails where hair-harvesting things are reported. If young people who have been looking forward to studying medicine for many years, who have been working with the Red Cross for years, who can be trained in their free time, then just get a message at the end of July: It's not you! although they have a matura certificate with the ideal note 1.0, if these people wait two months to see if they will get the opportunity to call against such a notice, and the university then writes to them, the notice will come within the next six months – tastes, crucible! – then it turns out that autonomy obviously does not have a condition, namely that the people they have to implement are sufficiently trained by your officials and taught in Austrian laws, especially in the General Administrative Law. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There is also a clarification, Mr. Cot.]] It's just not allowed to say people: You'll be notified in six months. Get outta here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Although you have spent a large part of your political career in Vorarlberg, you are a Tyrolean, and I assume that you are at the heart of the fate of the South Tyrolean Muralists who have not managed to get a place at the Medical University of Innsbruck. Mrs Bundesminister, I therefore ask you with all urgency, but also with all courtesy: Please do something for this group of 50 young people who have been flat-rately rejected because the Medical University Innsbruck did not consider that the Matura in Italy is so late that at the time they had a matura certificate, they were already occupied all the places. Please do something here! Do something for those young maturants who have relied on the false information of the Medical University Innsbruck that will not decide the order of the post stamp, but the kindness of the matura certificate and the proven voluntary cooperation with medical and social institutions. Please do something for these young people who have come to the university in confidence of what the Medical University of Innsbruck has announced to them on the Internet only two or three days after the start of the registration period, but with great references and now also need to hear: Unfortunately too late! Don't use anything! A particularly unfortunate case from Upper Austria is that of a young civil servant who works in the Vöcklabruck hospital and therefore could not drive to Innsbruck on the first day of registration because he was in the hospital. And these people are told: Too late! Bad luck! Everything doesn't apply. – So please help these people too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister, we have known each other for a very long time now, and of course each of us always tries to be original, but often we talk the same thing. I have heard again today from you, the Socialists and, if I may say so, the Greens are also structurally conservative, while you and the FPÖ and the BZÖ have taken the courage to do so. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I can tell you: Yeah, we're structurally conservative. We don't want the students' participation to be circumcised. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We do not want the young and medium-sized academic teachers from a co-determination they had for decades to be never abused, but, quite the contrary, to the benefit of the universities, to be removed with a dash as you did two years ago. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] And we do not want Austrian universities to be subjected to a stress test, which they have no longer grown, by the value of ever lower budgets from year to year. Yes, there we are structurally conservative! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] And I'll announce to you: We are so structurally conservative that we will reintroduce all that you have done in the 2002 UG, and we are so structurally conservative that we will ensure that the universities will get those €300 million more that they would need year after year to be able to work in order to be able to take in perhaps even 50 South Tyrol Maturants or ten young people who work at the Red Cross and therefore miss a registration date at the Medical University Innsbruck. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Another word to Innsbruck – I want to have said it officially here so that it doesn't say again, we didn't know –: The University of Innsbruck is of the mistaken opinion that, in addition to the restrictions on access to business administration, it may also introduce access restrictions in three other economic areas. Please, Mr. Section Head, please, Mrs. Minister, clarify the University of Innsbruck today: This is illegal.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11338	Mr Broukal, I have a motion for a resolution that you really wanted to make. You didn't bring that in. [[Abg. Broukal: Mr Jarolim will bring him in!]] They'll pass on the stafts. Good. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. Your welcome time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11370	Mr President. Minister! Mr Broukal, it is permissible to say: Not every student has the right to any degree, we only have space for 500 people this year, you come next year!? – Mr Broukal, is it permissible to say that? [[Abg. Broukal: Who says that?]] Is it allowed? Mr Broukal, you do not want to answer. Maybe you remember, it's your quote. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You yourself said in an interview: Not every student has the right to any degree. We only have room for 500 people this year. You're coming next year. It's the university's right to say that. [[Abg. Broukal: Which university does that say?]] You said that yourself. That was two years ago, but are you interested in what you said two years ago? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I understand you're changing Your opinion, like your shoes, depends on what is currently opportunistic, Mr Broukal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Broukal: I have always said that universities need more money! If you don't say that, you're dishonest! I've always said that!]] On the “academic level” of our discussion here today, Mr. Broukal, I would like to remind you once again of the words of your great chairman Dr. Gusenbauer. In the last speech, when we discussed this issue, he said himself and accused the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany – I was so angry at the time that I was doing it again now, because you said, we are talking about the academic level of the debate –: “No one leaving an Austrian school is supposed to be wiser than she does,” says Dr. Gusenbauer of the Minister Gehrer. And he goes on to say: This is obviously the primacy of their policy. I have the impression, Gusenbauer continues, that we will not face the international challenges with this bar. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Yes, that's it!]] With this, Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer says to the Minister that she is not wise enough because she does not have an academic title. That's what he's going to do with it, that's what he says with it. That's not a level! Then, Mr Broukal, without academic titles, you should not even say “Piep!” to a science discussion when it comes to how your Dr. Gusenbauer puts the bar in this discussion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is how you and colleagues from the green side are discussing this issue today. It's being panicked here, it's insecured throughout the inscription period, you paint everything black. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the party of equal opportunities! There's her true face!]] Mr Zinggl says it is so terrible to study here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The students do not get any places to study anyway, and after their studies they all have no jobs at all. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That was your quote. You said so. How terrible it is! You want to say to all students who want to study: Stop studying because it's so terrible! That's how you bring this over. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Then I'll ask myself, Why is Austria one of the most attractive in OECD as a place of study?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11500	Mr Matznetter, the fourth call from the former bank! Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11521	Austria has a third place throughout the OECD. – Unfortunately, he's sitting so far back, that's the problem. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] That's his problem. That's right. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: (on the way to the first bank series) I have no problem with it! Do you have a problem with this, Mrs. Colleague?]] Mr Matznetter, sit in the front! But you know you're not allowed to make calls, but only of your place. Austria has a third place in the OECD when it comes to the attractiveness of the university location. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Now she's out of the concept! That's bad too! Mrs Colleagues, you were before!]] So if our education is so bad, students are treated so badly there and then get no job, I wonder why we are so popular and why foreign students are so happy to come to us. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why are so many academics unemployed then?]] Because you're studying well here. You must also take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11596	Mr Matznetter, I give you a call for an order. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What for? What for?]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer) Because I'm not sitting in my place!]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11650	It is unpleasant to you that I have quoted your Dr. Gusenbauer, because it certainly does not correspond to what you otherwise understand by social-democratic attitude, and that is why you have to be so excited. But take note that it is fact – and this is what we see about student development – that the problem you have raised is especially at the Medical University. And here, too, it is important to do something, because in all other European countries there are access restrictions in this field, only in Austria there has been no such thing. In this respect, it is certainly now time for us to consider exactly how we can provide for the future. But you cannot say that this problem exists everywhere. The University of Graz alone can record all examiners in BWL and psychology, because in psychology only half of the acuities came, in BWL a third did not appear for the recording examination. This is precisely the fact that now all students who want to study in this field, in BWL and psychology, in Graz, can also study. The problem exists, as has been said, especially at the Medical Union, and it is now important to consider and consider what will be the best solution in this first semester with the new law which we have decided here. That is why we are also making a request to you all. [[Quoted print version removed]] This means that discussions are now taking place at EU level, which have already taken place and which we expect – and perhaps meet together here too – that they will be deepened in the future, strengthened to bring about a European solution. I think that's probably a point we'll find ourselves in. However, it is also important that internal Austrian measures are examined. This also includes for us such measures as the one we are examining the university check. This is also a possible measure – in addition to other measures – that a university check will be introduced to prevent foreign students from studying with us in the fields where there are problems, and not to deny our own Austrian students access to Austrian universities. That is why I would like to explain this system once again, because it is a sensible system that we also need to check carefully. This means that we increase the tuition fees for all to € 5 000, then we deduct the € 380 that currently exists in tuition fees, and the rest goes to the university check, which each maturant receives, namely, € 4 620, which reduces the tuition fee to what it is today, to the original amount. It's not a "fucking" thing, but it's a possible system! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the time of the child care check you also called all unisono: That's not possible, that's an uncovered check that Jörg Haider is distributing! – Today you know that there is this child care check in Austria and that it works well. However, it says child care because it was not as possible for the ÖVP to take the same name as it was. You will see, even this university check will be a good way to allow our Austrian students access to all the courses of study and for the others who make foreign students so expensive to study that it either deters them or they finance their own studies, namely to finance them in such a way that the Austrian universities have more money again. This national funding programme – which we say we want to increase the academic rate also through a national funding programme by handing over the university check to our masters – you can also not refuse to accept a programme with the help of which we will increase the academic rate. This is a way to help our domestic students, and this is a system that we will certainly also introduce if the situation is as terrible and dramatic and will stay as you always paint it on the wall. But we will see what the figures, data and facts will really look like after the end of the inscription period. Then one should sit down and examine all the possibilities and make the best for the Austrian students – but not that which you think is the best, and what Dr. Gusenbauer means, that everyone can only have the level that you, Dr. Gusenbauer, have as an academic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That is really not worthy of a social democrat.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11753	Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann's resolution, read by Dr. Gertrude Brinek, Mag. Dr Magda Bleckmann, colleagues on further implementation of the Bologna objectives is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11835	Mr Grünewald spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes, facts! - You know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11859	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Brinek claimed that the Federal Government was in line with excellent university-political education data in the edition, and mentioned two examples, on the one hand, the number of students who are so outstanding, and on the other, the conditions of care. I'll put it right: Austria has higher education transition rates of 35 percent, the OECD section is 53 percent. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: She didn't even...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] She claimed that the care data was such that a university teacher came to twelve students. I quote the Statistical Yearbook of the Ministry of Science, last issue: After that, 20 students come to a teacher in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Wrong!]] This means that Austria, in the negative sense, is clearly below the OECD section, which shows 15 students per teacher.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11913	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e11940	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In front of the road to Graz, because Mrs Bleckmann mentioned this: They did not address – probably consciously – the Graz Medical Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] At the Graz Medical University, 3,000 students are now enrolled in the first semester. They want to study. 300 can be recorded; exactly this year it is only more than 100 because 200 have been waiting since last year. That means that 3 000 students now pay a semester study fee, then there is a Knock-out exam, and then 100 of them are admitted. You, Mrs Brinek, say: There, at last, only those who really want to study and can study. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I didn't say that!]] Yeah, but you said it as proof for yourself. That's what I'm asking you: 100 out of 3 000, and you know exactly what that is? – No, thank you! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would nevertheless like to stress the bow a little further, because our topic is “European challenges for Austrian higher education policy”. This is not limited to access to the university. I would like to start from the Lisbon objectives; we have already talked about it a lot today. The Lisbon objectives indicate that the EU should be the most dynamic knowledge-based, competitive economic area in the world by 2010. I emphasize: knowledge based! The EU assumes that we live in a knowledge society and that this will develop, but not in an industrial society. At least we are in a change. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What brings her to this idea? – This idea is based on the fact that, in different comparisons and studies, one can see that each place where education is an essential topic, where new forms of education and new approaches to education are created, economic growth is the greatest. This concerns, for example, East Asia, which makes incredible growth leaps due to this situation, but it also concerns those countries within the EU that invest a lot in education and research, such as the Scandinavian countries. We have discussed here more often that this is actually an engine for growth. That is why I would like to highlight this economic aspect away from the humanist objectives, namely free access to education for everyone in person. Then: What are we doing? The challenges this knowledge society presents to Austria are in no way met by us. When one looks at the fact that in many sectors – for example, in the production of microchips, in the pharmaceutical industry, in the whole area of information and communication – the share of knowledge is up to 80 percent – that is, that knowledge as a resource, in addition to work, capital and soil, is gaining a meaning that we cannot yet give up – one can imagine about how important it is to invest in this area, also for economic growth, for a meaningful economic growth, which can still develop a dynamic even in the case of limited quantities of substances, not only by road construction or, as has been said today, by demonstrating all possible areas. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So the knowledge society has its chance, and we could use it if we met this challenge. However, this requires certain framework conditions. The EU has given us a lot with this definition, and you can see how Austria reacts to it. If I take up today's debate, especially the speeches by the government groups, I have to say: This is a permanent question of restrictions, of restraints, of the question: How can you stop people from studying? – This is the completely wrong way, especially in economic terms, because it is a matter of ensuring broad access to knowledge so that we can exist in a completely changed society at all! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Our education system continues to focus on an industrial society. This is not only for the universities, it is also hard to separate from the entire schooling. We still live by the fact that we seem to have to learn certain facts, that we have technical sciences, that we are extremely faulty and that we are still dealing with supposed certainty. All of this in a knowledge society doesn't make so much sense, nor does it make a lot of sense, because the common knowledge becomes – and I realize that if I only look at what we have in common – in such a dynamic situation ever smaller and smaller. In other words, it must be assumed that specialization of individuals is increasing, but that this must also be networked somewhere. For this the universities would actually be a very good place. If we were to start from this knowledge society as utopia, as well as the Lisbon goals define it, then this would mean the following for the universities: a) free access to education and universities, b) not only technical sciences, but interdisciplinary work, where we in Austria still depend entirely on the rear, c) also diversity to benefit from diversity, both between men and women and between cities and people who come from the country, and also between Austrians and people who come from abroad. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This means instead of trying to keep restricting access and saying: The best thing they should do is get out again, only Austrians, and as few as possible, because we know that most of them are just stachinizing, and in fact only 100 out of 3,000 are supposed to study, because then we have about the number of those we think are worth studying too!, that is certainly the wrong way you go with your university policy in Austria. If we want to accept this challenge of the knowledge society, we need something completely different. Then we don't need a selection, but a broad access, a wide range of options. This also concerns, for example, the subjects at the universities. What you, Mrs. Minister, and you are constantly addressing from the government factions here, namely a narrowing of the spectrum – to abolish the so-called orchid compartments or to shorten at school in sports and music, for example, because at the moment mathematics is “in” – this is simply a wrong approach because we need everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] It will not help you if you specialize the entire society in a few areas. That's what you're doing right now, you're extremely intrusive of our knowledge, from school to universities. Instead, you should create broad access, broad general knowledge, with not only expertise but also personal skills and social skills. [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: Yes! Yes!]] They say yes again, as always, as in the employment initiative – just do You don't care! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Look at it! Look at your specific actions, for example Guideline 8 – Mr Van der Bellen has already mentioned this today – this national implementation plan with regard to growth and employment! Look Take a look at Guideline 8 once, what they have written in it! There are some very interesting measures in the field of research, which also benefit researchers, but there is nothing in it of broad access to the university, of the importance of more academics, of broad access to this knowledge. There is nothing at all about the fact that we actually need thousands, tens of thousands of places more in Austria, and not less. That's your university policy – it's not innovation-friendly, it's anti-innovation! Neither does it serve humanistic ideals, so that people can really develop themselves and participate in social developments, but it is a contemplation. It is also economically the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12052	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12084	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Although I do not want to participate too much in the general "numbering" shop, which has also been operated today, because in the end I believe that the students are least interested in statistics, but rather how well they can study, I would like to correct the following: [[Abg. Sburny: Whether they get a place, they're interested!]] Mr Grünewald has just said that according to OECD, we would have fewer students in 2005 than in 1999. The OECD has not yet published any figures for 2005; perhaps you mean those of 2004. According to OECD, but also according to our figures, university degrees increased by 27 percent from 1999 to 2005 and FH degrees by 87 percent since 1999. [[Abg. Brosz:... want to talk about statistics!]] Of course, the number of students has fallen a little, because we have finally managed what, I think, was also in common interest, namely to clean up these numbers for the cartels. I was also such a one; I have now no longer enrolled. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Are you with a funeral company?]] I believe, however, that it is already important that a European university area and study in Europe is incredibly much more than indeed serious problems, as they currently exist at medical universities. A higher education area of Europe means the possibility for our students to study from one country without any problems in admission in another country. The Bologna model, i.e. the continuous two-stage degree in the degree course, is already very well implemented. One can make a Bachelor in any country, one can make a Master in any country, and one can now switch between the countries and between the individual studies. This has led the Austrians who study to make 28 percent of the opportunity to study abroad, supported by the European programmes, supported by scholarship programs that we have in addition in Austria, also supported by their own parents, even with much of their own effort, because one of the support or support programmes of the entire livelihood is not financed. With a youth who goes abroad with so much self-service and learns there, I am not afraid of our universities either. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: This will calm the universes!]] Whatever we have, Mrs Sburny, this is that we spend more in Austria per student, especially more than Finns. [[Abg. Brosz: That's not true! The Finns...!]] In fact, the Finns spend €11768, the Austrians €12 448 per student, according to OECD. The cut is also below our spending. It is quite obvious, therefore, that the money alone is very little meaningful for success or failure. [[Abg. Sburny: I didn't say anything about money!]] That is why it is very important that efficiency increases also take place at our universities. It is already interesting for me to see that, in view of the negotiation of the university budget, the rectors have set out efficiency savings for the next period until 2009. It is about money that they can make meaningful use of for other areas, a total of € 500 million. This means that money, which can be saved in the administration of universities, is also available to students. It is also important that in the future we make more and stronger efforts to bring the world heritage and European knowledge home to Austria and to carry it out of Austria by increasingly digitizing the Austrian libraries, the Austrian museums, the European university libraries and the European museums, thus creating rapid and rapid access for all students in Europe to our heritage of knowledge, to our cultural heritage. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's what the Seizel is doing!]] I know that this is still a vision in many areas, that it is expensive and that it is difficult to implement, but I believe that this great difference between Europe and other regions of the world is a starting point for us in Europe, which we also need to benefit from. We should make every effort to implement it as quickly as possible in order to really benefit from this cultural edge of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12200	Mrs Dr. Brinek spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions: 2 minutes of speaking time; first of all, the corrective situation to be corrected, then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12225	High house! Mrs. Sburny said I would have quoted the medical university rector from Graz. The right thing is: I quoted Martin Polachek, Vice President for Study Affairs of the University of Graz, with the sentence: In any case, they are now studying those who really want to study seriously. - From this leaf. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date.]] - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Part Two: I think it was Mr Grünewald who said that the relationship between students and supervisors was...... 1 : 15. [[Abg. Brosz: Sorry, that was not a speech contribution, but an actual correction!]] I quote the OECD: 13.7 is the ratio.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12287	This was a real objection from the honourable Member. It is not possible to correct an actual correction. – The first part was an actual correction. The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Niederwieser. His speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12314	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I think we could then move the follow-up to the Rules of Procedure to the end of the debate. Mr. Brinek! Usually, you quote something you identify with or to disprove it. [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, Professor!]] I suppose you liked this statement. I note: Of course, we assume that those who actually want to study are studying. What is the special gain of knowledge? The fact is, however, that about 2,000 to 3,000 young people from Austria and other countries would like to study and also have the right and competence to do so, but should not study. This is the scandal you should deal with as a representative of the government parties, because there are people who do not find a place to study! [[Abg. Riepl: That's a big mistake!]] On the topic "European challenges for Austrian higher education policy": This is certainly about access to universities and also about the Bologna study design with Bachelor, Master and Doctorate. Let me say: For us Social Democrats, the dignity of the human being is independent of whether a title is in front of his name or not. All people are worth the same thing. We are also concerned that everyone and everyone can develop freely in an educational system that can learn what he or she wants. It's no matter if someone's a doctor or a nurse or a salesman. We don't make any difference. It must apply to everyone that they find the best possible conditions in the school and education system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Europe challenges us. First of all, let me lay down some principles: We want a European university area. In principle, universities should be open to all citizens, not only to European citizens, but also to young people from developing countries, from all countries of the world, because universities that want to rise internationally are inseparably linked to being open. This should be a principle that applies to all. A second principle is that the Member States of the European Union have the task of providing its citizens with a powerful education system, from kindergartens to schools, universities to adult education. This was particularly critical for us in relation to Germany, for it cannot be assumed that we have completed the medical profession, because we have too little education in Germany. If you perhaps want to refer to the German Federal Government in this regard, I must say that this is due to failures which lie very far in the past and which the CDU/CSU has the primary responsibility to bear. You do not become a doctor in four or five years, but it takes longer. Something's been missed a long time ago. But it is not a question of another state taking over this task for someone. Third point: It is up to every country to lay down the conditions of access it considers to be correct. That's a national matter. That is where we share the opinion of the Federal Minister. Austria has one of the lowest academic rates among all EU countries, and it would be wrong to restrict access to universities for its own citizens in such a situation. There's an essential point. Many of you or some of you really sympathize with such access restrictions, and they are now making us the big problem. The conclusion is as follows: Everyone should be able to study at the universities of Europe on the conditions that apply there. The country of origin replaces the university – I don't think much of a fund – where someone is studying the costs. This leaves the European Higher Education Area open and means, at the same time, a fair financial compensation, so that the countries which themselves do not provide enough places to do so will have to do otherwise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Another point that I can only strip with one side sentence: If we have the three-way system with Bachelor, Master and Doctorate, then it is a challenge for us and a task to give the graduates of the Bachelor's degree a proper academic recognition. It is no longer a matter of anyone who makes the Bachelor in Austria, or even the graduates of high school according to the law of the public service are not considered academics. This is something that must finally be taken care of. This is a consequence of European higher education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It would also be time for us to adapt this term, Mrs. Federal Minister. The Bakkalaureus is really an Austrian unique. That's where we should approach the Bachelor. A final but important statement: The international reputation of our universities also lives by the reputation of our scientists. One of the best known in Austria and beyond is Professor Haider, who is responsible for the PISA project. We consider it unbearable in the way in which, in the last few days, Amon, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education and the President of the ÖVP National School Council is being tried to ruin Professor Haider's reputation, and we expect this campaign to be stopped without delay.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12386	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12407	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I really find it immense how SPÖ and Greens actually use these today's EU debates only to run panic in relation to Austrian higher education policy. [[Abg. Broukal: This can only be a prescribed text!]] I also welcome a debate at the so-called academic level, Mr Broukal, when Professor Grünewald, Mr Zinggl and now Mr Niederwieser compares OECD statistical data. [[Abg. Broukal: Dr. Zinggl!]] Dear gentlemen! I think you know how creative statistical data can be compared. [[Abg. Broukal: You know this clearly! Tell us more about it!]] However, I think it is very worrying if you are in any doubt about the Austrians. I only take the academic ratio as an example where you constantly, but immediately compare apples with pears. You already have to see which professions in the various OECD countries are called academic. [[Abg. Brosz: What can we do if you refuse academic training in Austria?]] Otherwise, you could not simply compare the numbers if, in Finland and Sweden, kindergartens and kindergartens are recognized as academic professions and then compare this academic ratio with the Austrian one. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: This is a good thing that the academically trained!]] There is very good training in this area in Austria, but no university education is planned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: This accounts for a maximum of 0.01 percent!]] This also applies to compulsory schools. This will now be changed in the immediate future in Austria, but in other countries this area is already included in the areas of higher education. Be really honest when you compare these numbers. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's all wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Europe-wide is working very intensively to create a European Higher Education Area, to promote mobility and to achieve greater transparency and better recognition in skills. The aim is to facilitate the recognition of studies in the European area and to be able to study in different countries, inter alia through the approximation of courses. The ERASMUS action programme shows: In 2004/2005, more than 4,000 students used this programme to expand their horizons. It has already been mentioned that you not only learn by sucking in facts, but also by looking beyond the edge of the plate and learning something in other countries. For this purpose, these exchange programmes are of great benefit. Austria is also very good at the implementation of the Bologna Agreement. As regards the three-member division of studies – Bakkalaureat, Magister and Doctorate – more than 30 percent of the studies have already been converted in Austria. The diploma additions, the recognition of the diploma facilitations with ECTS points has already implemented Austria for all curriculum. In view of this, you already have to acknowledge that Austria is on a very good path and we are not big-scale, as Professor Grünewald has said. It is proven that we are very, very good on the road. Ladies and gentlemen! We stand for a European knowledge-based society, and this means that mobility opportunities are being forced. However, it is a problem that the judgment of the European Court of Justice has put a great burden on universities. But you also have to relativize it, because you represent it as if total chaos had broken out at the universities. There are over 180 courses in Austria, two of which are affected by medicine and veterinary medicine. Leave the church in the village and say that not the whole university is panicked and is in a disaster. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There would be a quick solution, namely to make it the same as it is in the Federal Republic of Germany, namely the introduction of a Numerus clausus. We do not want to do that, neither do the government parties, nor you, because it is unfair to introduce a Numerus claususus. We clearly stand for free access to universities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The universities react very differently to the attack from Germany. I clearly recognise that certain solutions are not optimal and that we need to work to achieve a uniformity and to find a just solution, so that Austrian students have a real chance to study in Austria. [[Abg. Broukal: And a quick solution!]] A quick solution would be the brilliant proposal of the BZÖ-Obmann, head of state Haider, who proposed the university check, which you basically support. [[Abg. Broukal: Convert! Do it! Do it now!]] You're just scared when you saw that others also have these ideas. It will certainly be checked whether we can enforce this idea and will be tried as soon as possible to implement it. Such a university check gives Austrian students the opportunity to study rather than German students. [[Abg. Broukal: Why didn't you use it anymore? That could have been implemented already!]] Yes, we will try, Mr Broukal. We're still working. [[Abg. Broukal: The semester starts in two weeks!]] It is also to be said that the problem is not limited only to Austria. In a new study, Germany has found out that there is a medical shortage. It cannot be that in Austria we solve the problem of medical training in Germany. There is also a problem in Belgium. It has also been mentioned more often that French students have been burdened by universities, especially in the field of veterinary medicine, where there are already much more French than Belgian students. That is to say, it is necessary to negotiate at European level, to force these negotiations massively so that a fair solution can be reached together at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12602	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. Total remaining time for the green club: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12624	Madam President. Minister for Education! Mrs Achleitner, with the apples and pears, was already a very good start. However, I have expected you to explain to us why this is not true with the academic rate, and Austria may have a higher academic rate. You didn't do that! They have explained to us – and this is true – that there are professions that are academically trained in all other OECD countries, such as kindergartens, such as compulsory school teachers. But then you found that we compare apples to pears. We have been trying to explain to you for years and days that we think this is a problem, because the other countries do not fail to think about whether one considers academic education to be useful for educational professions, whether it is perhaps a school education alone or not. It's got a background. This has the background, for example, with regard to kindergarten, that such a thing as intercultural pedagogy, which would be very important in a city like Vienna, and early funding can be learned not only in a school but at a university. What about integration? It's about all these things. With the kindergartens – believe me, I know very well what I am talking about – the classic school share is just so large in the five-year school education that many parts that could be learned at the university are not accommodated there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you look at international comparisons as regards early promotion, you can see exactly how this works and why countries that also place a heavy weight on it are much more successful than Austria is. Perhaps we even come to discuss that one could actually learn medicine at a school and no longer need to study, and then we say again: That's an insanity that compares apples to pears, and the academic councils are not right! The real question is: What does academic education make sense for? You have to answer this question. This goes on even further and starts much earlier in Austria, where it is about how many in Austria even have the right to start a study. There we have even greater differences in international comparison. When you consider that other countries reach academic quotas that are higher than the Maturant quotas in Austria, you know where the comparisons are to be made. The question then arises whether this is sufficient for a knowledge-based future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Is it really appropriate for us to afford to leave about 40 percent of young people with 15 in vocational education? The dual training is quite okay, but the question is: Is the school's share enough there? Is it enough for such a large proportion of 15-year-olds to de facto give up linguistic training? We all know that in vocational schools English and other foreign languages are not a topic. You have to answer these questions with regard to international comparisons, which are also viewed in perspective where this will lead in Austria. Wherever you use international comparisons, that's great. There, where it doesn't fit, it's a comparison of apples with pears, but otherwise Klubobmann Molterer comes each time with another Taferl, different sizes, where graphics he just cut out are pictured, which fit wonderfully, and there it's great. But where it is about looking at how education looks at future opportunities, it is all at once that we are talking about apples and pears. So there's something you're doing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In any case, we believe that it cannot be the goal – and I absolutely share the opinion of Mr Niederweiser – that everyone and everyone will receive an academic education. But we absolutely want to have the possibility that we can make those who want to make an academic education... – Everyone and everyone are not 50 percent, colleague Scheuch, that is the percentage calculated. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You talked about 50 percent being academic!]] 50 percent is half of the total, so there's more about it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is about defining what is sufficient and, above all, what it needs for economic development. Finally, I would also like to say a word on the discussion that has taken place in recent days in an inconsistency which I did not expect from him in this form with regard to the Austrian PISA leader Günter Haider. That's what I really have to say: I find the form, as it has been led, to be very strange. What was the origin? – Perhaps you can tell me where the personal insults you are talking about would have been, and where you and the colleague Fuhrmann ask Günter Haider to apologize. Günter Haider gave the “Furche” an interview stating that the measures you are taking in education policy are absolutely insufficient to solve the problems of the Austrian education system. No more and no less! After all, someone you have set up as head of a Future Commission will agree that, after completing this process, he will also appreciate whether the measures will be implemented, whether they are sufficient. It can't be like you're telling him: Either nice mouse silence, or you can think about how it works with you in the PISA center! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that this form of dealing with critics is really extremely worrying! [[Abg. Großruck: But you have a wrong access!]] This is strange for democracy politics, and then to discuss fees in a cryptic form about the APA, which is, I think, not worthy of a government party at all. We have always considered measures taken by the Future Commission very critically, but always in a form that we have seriously discussed the proposed measures that we have addressed. It is not the policy to take any expert recommendation seriously, but if one works with slanders where experts practice criticism, when one goes out with the cue, when one works with slanders, it becomes really worrying.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12705	Next item is Mrs Wolfmayr's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12727	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I deal with the horror figures and ghosts drawn by our colleague, Mr Sburny, I would like to focus briefly on the subject of the day. In my opinion, we are dealing with two major tasks of the Austrian education system within the European framework, namely that through reforms we must adapt to a rapidly changing labour market, but also at the same time position ourselves well within the European Qualifications Framework. It's not that easy. We want to bring various university areas to the fore, and we also need additional financial resources, which are currently being set in motion. We are faced with a great challenge, namely to make the access arrangements to our universities EU-compliant, and we have done so in Stage 1. We have also done what was possible after the ECJ judgment. And we see, Mrs. Brinek has shown us today from the “Small Newspaper”: Graz University, for example, which has prepared itself in good time and in good time, has also managed to cope quickly and well with the necessary adjustments. Col. Sburny! Visiting Graz Medical University: They told of 3,000 students who cannot study. - That's horror numbers! We are dealing with 3 000 people, so we are dealing with those who are interested. [[Abg. Sburny: That now make an entrance phase and pay the tuition fees!]] The authorisation procedures are under way, and there comes to them at 23. As the 372 day of September, of course, some still allowed to do so. [[Abg. Sburny: They pay tuition fees for nothing and nothing again!]] Yes, you have a different view of that. [[Abg. Sburny: That's not an opinion, that's a fact!]] In any case, in this way we have dealt with the very difficult problem for the first time. However, we are now also drawing up other options that we still have, because we want to make Europe understandable and can also determine what is necessary for our national university landscape in the European context. There is in this context a memorandum from the Commission on which we can rely. I quote it briefly because this text is definitely useful: “The increasing movement caused by mobility must be carefully checked to ensure that a situation is avoided in which major imbalances in student flows... result in excessive burden on certain Member States. In due course, consideration could be given to whether compensation payments and increased support in such cases would be desirable in the weaker regions.’ Recently, Commission President Barroso has also assured that he is willing to deal with the Austrian problem – we are dealing with a similar situation with French students in Belgium – at medical universities in a working group with the Commission, and this ARGE has already been installed. I am also briefly quoting Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, who was recently in Graz and who very well raised the subject at a ceremony by saying that in the European context, protectionism is not important, but only enhanced efforts in the fields of education and qualified jobs. It is only in this way that we could prevent the industrialisation of Europe as a result of global competition. Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner has also – I do not wish to conceal this – underlined the role of Styria and the many economic, scientific and cultural projects in contact with neighbouring countries. There is this direct experience of Europe by its citizens, this awareness that we are all part of this Europe, not out of power, but in order to bring us in. Our Styrian colleague in the European Parliament, Reinhard Rack, has also underlined this and put it to the point by saying: "We must not leave Europe alone to the professionals. Europe belongs to all of us! “A short while ago, with regard to the school of poetry. I believe that precisely through these developments that we have now, for the school of Christian Ide Hintze's poetry in collaboration, for example, with the universities or the art universities, especially in the Styrian region, a good future development is possible. And there's a lot going on right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12796	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. Requested time: 5 minutes; Total remaining time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12817	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In the course of this debate today, it was very often the subject of restrictions on access to universities. The government parties, Mrs Achleitner, have made a clear statement on this point. That was not so complete as to be heard from you, Mrs Brinek. [[Abg. Scheibner: A little bit of a difference must be!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:... set it right!]] They quoted the vice-president of the University of Graz, and that sounded almost enthusiastic. I hope that you have not meant this and are still for free access to higher education in Austria. I would like to turn to another problem that we have, namely free access to higher education, but quite different barriers, and these are the social barriers we have in our country at universities. We have heard – and everyone who wants to know – that of 72 students who study at the universities in Austria, 100 parents have an academic background, so that the parents are academics. And that's something you should think about: That only eight out of 100 children of workers study at universities. This is an access limitation that you need to talk about. Here you have to do something, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And there are already proposals, like for example, that you can support children from these so-called remote layers of education – how technically that sounds! – offers so that this social numerus clausus is really loosened here. There would be a lot to do here. If Mrs Hakl dreams of this beautiful new world that everywhere in Europe can be studied by everyone and everyone, I say: There's still a lot to be done. This requires, for example, the reduction of language barriers. There are the obstacles, as has often been discussed, already in the tenth year of life of the children, when the students are divided. And it's also a question of costs, because you have to afford to spend two months in summer or study abroad. Of course, there are scholarships, but you still have to earn a lot or get sponsored by the parents. This is not a matter of course, and it is not everyone who can afford it in that country. Next, I would like to draw attention to a student group that is repeatedly neglected, which has not been discussed here in this debate: These are the working students. Two thirds of those studying at universities are in some form of employment, and special measures should be taken for these students. They have special wishes to address, but nothing is planned in this respect, such as the introduction of a summer semester, block events, evening events, weekend events, part-time studies. If you take Lisbon targets seriously on this issue, you have to do something here. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's all done!]] It's not enough! I know many students at the universities and have taken this rocky path myself to study alongside the profession. Much too little has happened, and now, with this pressure, the working students will be forgotten again. Ask the rectors! These too have admitted, also the chairman of the rector conference, Professor Badelt. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the light is already shining, an appeal: Let's not forget the women! Of course, it is always said that the numbers of graduates are rising, more than half of the students are women. Just one thing you don't say: How many of the 21 rectors, Mrs. Minister, are men? – 21 – and zero women! Of the professors more than 90 percent are men, there are almost no women. There's a bottleneck, Mrs. Brinek, there's something to do, and there's nothing to do with conventional funding plans, which needs to be taken more seriously. We have a male university with male teachers, and this problem you, as a minister – five years old, you have been doing it now; as long as you normally have a study, you have to tackle it: As ministers, they should ensure that the universities become more female.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12894	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. The total remaining time, Mr deputies, for the freedom club is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12922	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Jarolim, it is fascinating: You can make calls and write calls at the same time. You should continue to maintain this perfection, and I must honestly say that you can really congratulate the SPÖ. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] There has been a lot of discussion about study policy over the last one and a half hours, but I have missed one thing: I missed European access. Very few contributions to the debate have been made to Europe. The only one was the ECJ judgment dealing with access restrictions. There are several solutions here. My two previous speakers, Elke Achleitner and Magda Bleckmann, have already presented our proposal for a solution: the Uni-Scheck, which may still have to be discussed, which may not have been poured out, which may need some improvement, but which is a concrete model, would be a concrete solution in order to contribute something here. However, I would also like to use my speaking time to draw a small summary of this day at the end of the first day of Europe. Most of us already read the evening newspapers or read the APA today, and I must honestly say that I am personally disappointed by that day that actually did not bring what we expected. We would have expected more European policy. For my person, I would have imagined less party polemics, less internal policies, less national hack fights. For example, colleagues have come out of here to speak of Waltraud Klasnic, and that is one day when Europe's policy is discussed. Without wishing to reduce Mrs Klasnic and her importance, I think that is not a European policy. Similarly, it was on the side of the opposition, which knew nothing better all day than to discuss it and to demand that the Federal Chancellor apologize. I believe that this too has a day of the euro- There is nothing lost in this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this should be a lesson for us! I am convinced that there are enough resources in each club to actually discuss European issues, that there is enough in each of our clubs to actually deal with European policy. It will not be enough for a few colorful flags to be attached to the Bureau and to the speaker's seat, but it will be necessary to deal with the concerns and problems, because only then, ladies and gentlemen, will it make sense to hold Europe's days here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e12988	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Mr deputies, 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; Total remaining time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e13025	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to say something to Mr Scheuch, Mr Klubobmann Cap. Unfortunately, I have to follow his judgment because this is also my assessment that what we have done with these European days, namely to discuss European issues at a high level here in our House, unfortunately, this objective has not been achieved. That is also my personal assessment, and I say, before I come to the subject of the fourth point, in a few sentences why I believe that. Let's take the 1. Agenda item today in the morning: Work; Growth, economy. – In reality, the opposition has limited itself to what has already been discussed on this issue yesterday – and this is, of course, legitimate; these issues are on the agenda order yesterday – simply to repeat today and not to say a word about the European dimension or to compare how our country is in this European comparison. You did not say anything about this, but you brought out what you said yesterday and used it again today. ==References== Agenda item, Services Directive, was a European issue. You couldn't help it, you had to talk about Europe. However, this has only been used by the SPÖ to frighten fear to spread fear of any nebulous terror. However, I have not heard any solution except that it was said that the Commission should simply withdraw its draft, then everything would be done. Do believe in our innovative, courageous companies, which are also successful in many other areas, including outside our country, with such a high export rate as we have never had before, and believe that this is also possible in the service sector! The Members' statements were, I believe, the European phobia Summit in Parliament on this Europe Day: After ten years of EU membership, he fears that there are different languages in Europe. It seems that it is only today that several languages are spoken in Europe, and he fears that and has said so very clearly today. [[Abg. Eder: At least he can do a few!]] ==References== Agenda item, terrorism and combating terrorism, there was at least an objective discussion. This must be recognized, but it is still necessary to convince you of the opposition also of the need for mutual cooperation and not just one-sided cooperation at European level. [[Abg. Oillinger: So, and now on the subject, please!]] Finally, on the subject, 4. Agenda item that the Greens have chosen: European challenges for Austrian higher education policy. I repeat it again: European challenges. But you both from the Greens and you from the SPÖ have actually failed to raise the view over the national, the Austrian border of plates. The only thing that you have done was to ask for even more money to condemn national higher education policy, but you have not contributed to how this problem – and this is now a European problem, as you have recognized on the subject – how this European problem can also be solved. The cry for more money is not at least. My colleague Karin Hakl mentioned it: In Austria, there were just over €10,000 per student in 2002. We are in excellent fourth place in the EU, and we are also in the front line in the OECD. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: What are these numbers? They all don't vote, says the Brinek!]] I just wanted to tell you, Mr Green Forest, it's not about money. It may be other things, but it's not the money. However, you and, above all, Mr Broukal always ask us to simply take more money into their hands – and everything is solved. That's not going to be it, and you have to recognize that, as I mean. The European challenge in higher education policy is not in finance, it is not in the financial field, but it is necessary that we here jointly, at European level, also remember solutions that we are negotiating here, looking for solutions instead of just betting and leaving press releases off the stack. That doesn't solve anything. This brings me to a concrete solution, which you have unfortunately failed, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. In Germany – and we are more than happy about it – the time of the red-green government has ended; we all know that thank God. But for seven years now, you would have had time to negotiate with your family members in Germany, for example, about Germany setting up an open university entrance or that Germany provides only as many places in the medical field as Austria compared to Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: We weren't in the government! You know that, though?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr. Donnerbauer, this is beyond!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: We need to negotiate for you?- Oh, my God!]] That would be 27 000. How many places in the Medical Union does Germany offer? – 11 000, not even half of what Austria does in comparison. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's a salmon number!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is a cabaret deposit!]] That would be a concrete area where you could also make use of yourself. [[Abg. Oils: A salmon number if it wasn't so sad!]] You didn't do anything. Just talk and not act is too little, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e13194	Next, Mr Jarolim. Time left: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e13215	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I shall take a brief look at what I have to say. Mr Scheuch, the statement by Mr Grillitsch, of course, welcomes our full support, for it is true that it is precisely the ÖVP that has been vehemently tried to provide European questions with sterile answers, which, as I think, is of course not very worthy. In so far as Mr Scheuch is concerned: We are fully behind you in the question. [[Call the Greens: We too!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But otherwise, isn't it?]] - Well, you can't say that. [[Abg. Neudeck: Then... think about it!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Then I said something wrong!]] To the summary comment of Mr. Donnerbauer, who, in the sense of all of us, has at least tried to put together the daily programme here, we must say: Mr Collegue, I believe that a Social Democratic Party, which is an internationalist party, that we cannot move in Europe, is qualified by itself! In fact, your whole statement was nothing more than a special one – so I have felt it, and so I am in favour of your statement – the special one, we say, of the lack of the ability of the Federal Minister Gehrer, who over the course of the ten years of her activity obviously did not do so, ladies and gentlemen, what you, Mr Donnerbauer, have called for here, namely to ensure that what has happened cannot happen. Mrs. Gehrer, I am really shocked! I am not in the Scientific Committee, but with the ignorance with which you have acted here today, I really see black! The Commission is the “oppressor” – under quotations – of Austria! – However, the Commission could have spoken for a long time. I cannot understand why we have to wait for the judgment to be held instead of talking where they are to be held. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Donnerbauer, I am entirely of your opinion if you say that there should be talks here. And, of course, it is also a matter of learning languages to understand international processes to conduct conversations – perhaps only as a small sidestep. But if I look, Mrs. Minister, at the fact that you are going back to English and other language lessons and are actually building up the future of our youth completely, this is the next point I see totally black. [[Abg. Steibl: That's good! Seeing black is always good!]] Before I finish over time, I may make the following request – thank you for this verbal contribution, ladies and gentlemen from the right; if I have time, I will then continue to speak –: [[Cheerfulness, intermediate calls and congratulations with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Großruck: German language, heavy language!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] That is why the application has been submitted. I come back to the ECJ judgment: Mrs Bundesminister, the ruling of the ECJ was not the finding or the re-occupying of an now existing maladministration in Austria, but it was nothing but the determination of incompetence because the Court of Justice had expressly stated that it could and would have decided differently, but simply did not bring about anything that would have enabled it. literally: ‘In the present case, the Republic of Austria has limited itself to asserting in the oral proceedings that there could be study applicants but has not reimbursed any such claims, in particular figures. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a judgment of an ECJ, which normally judges very, very reticently, is a real insidious judgment! [[Abg. Grossruck: At the beverage tax he was not holding back!]] You can only read it in such a way that we really have lost either sighting eyes here or with incompetence – both of which are equally bad – the procedure. I would just like to ask whether or not You are responsible or not responsible because you, Mrs Bundesminister, always declare that you are no longer responsible for the universities. I may perhaps quote the University Law 2002, Sections 45 and 49, where the legal supervision explicitly provides: "The universities are subject to the supervision of the federal government. This includes the supervision of compliance with the laws” – Mrs. Federal Minister! – ‘and regulations including the statutes’. – You are responsible, Minister! Furthermore, in the case of liability: The Federal Minister of Justice is liable for statements given by “university institutions or employees or by other persons on behalf of the University on the basis of this Federal Law” and there is a claim of official liability. And that's what you have to expect, Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e13369	Mr Jarolim's motion for a resolution, tabled by Mr Broukal, Dr. Green Forest, ladies and gentlemen have been properly introduced, sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e13437	Next, Mr Magistrate. It's the main word. 5 minutes speaking time – or remaining speaking time for the liberal club: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e13458	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The first European Parliament day under the new Rules of Procedure is now coming to an end, and the resumés that have been drawn – even if you look at the newspapers that have just arrived – are actually not very euphoric. I believe, however, that we have every reason, if we want to take seriously the high objective of the reform of the Rules of Procedure seriously, to allow ourselves to come to terms with one another for the next day of Europe, even if it is again broadcast on television, by the political groups and by the whole of the script for the whole day, because otherwise the pensioners and the housewives will rather fall asleep in front of the televisions and not a new European euphoria will be awakened by the discussion in this House. I do not think we should afford to feed even more on the distrust of Europe here, rather than to make the opposite, namely to use this event in the Austrian Parliament to actually discuss how to bring Europe's peace project and the education project into a positive future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am now here in this House for almost 20 years, and if I remember the debate at the time when I came here as a young Member, when we discussed in Innsbruck whether the academic degree of the Faculty of Medicine – the then “Shi-doctor” – was still recognized in Germany at all, then the state today that we have too few places for students in Innsbruck, because the quality of the University of Innsbruck, the international ranking, the publications and the achievements of the Medical University in Innsbruck in the leading field is significantly preferable not only to Austria but also to Europe. The development of the last 20 years cannot have been so bad if you like to study in Austria today to get a good and future-looking training here, while 20 years ago you were at the same location where we have problems today by too many students from Germany who have had the opposite problem, namely that the students from Germany, when they came home, have been viewed with a lot of eyes, because their qualifications have been poorly assigned to their home country. – So much to discuss the quality of Austrian education policy in recent years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As you have also mentioned the topic of women by the opposition parties: It should not be forgotten that in Austria, where the women are at a disadvantage, with more than 51 percent of female maturants, we have a significant number of more women in the secondary education system. We should not forget that as regards universities, the proportion of women is quite high. But what we should not overlook is that it is still in the Preparation phase, i.e. when it comes to what study is to be carried out. Yes, it often happens to the secondary schools when it comes to women taking up women's occupations other than, so to speak, women's. I therefore ask you, Mrs Gehrer, to look at what we started together three years ago, namely the so-called Empowerment courses – courses with women from the economy and women from non-typical women’s professions – to force also in the field of secondary schools in such a way that we can move more women to opt for non-classical women’s professions, such as technical professions, where they had excellent opportunities and the Austrian economy, especially in the field of new technologies, needed more women than graduates in the tertiary sector. I can also add something on the edge: There was today at the University of Soil Culture a meeting of the University Council. In Tulln a new university building is to be created, with the country of Lower Austria ready to make investments of €70 million, but at the university one is not able to guarantee its own share in the appropriate form and to design the contracts because bureaucratic regulations do not allow longer-term planning and a guarantee of €2 million per year at present. In Austria, if one wants to keep the tertiary sector Europe- and world-wide, one should consider also what the bureaucracy is about to do, to give the universities financial models, so that university councils do not have to hold for 2, 3 or 4 million euros for two years before the budget negotiations are completed after the next National Council elections; that is what I am saying in particular with regard to the BOKU. I have even experienced this in the field of technical colleges, where we were five eligible members who had been liable for over € 286 million for a year. Hans Peter Haselsteiner could have done this more easily than Herbert Haupt, Eva Kircher-Kohl and so on. That was the case at the time, and I therefore know how unsatisfying such poor conditions are, especially with regard to long-term decisions. Perhaps you are so tolerant in your home's bureaucracy that you can better shape these conditions in the future in terms of fiscal matters. In this sense and coming to the conclusion: I am pleased that even with health professionals, who are now being upgraded and become professional universities, the degree of academic education in Austria will also be demonstrated in statistics and not only in the excellent training in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e13540	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. We are therefore voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Greenewald, colleagues on the defence of open access to higher education in the Member States of the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brinek, Dr Bleckmann, colleagues on further implementation of the Bologna objectives. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted. (E 143.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Broukal, Dr Greenewald, colleagues on open access to universities and the abolition of tuition fees. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[17:54:51]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00124_d7e13613	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 712/A to 713/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3478/J to 3496/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 19 May. October 2005, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
