ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2252	I'll open the 97. Meeting of the National Council and welcome all of you very cordially. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Keussnigg, Steibl, Keck, Mag. Posch, Heinisch-Hosek, Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Rossmann, Mag. Weinzinger and Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. – The flu wave has also hit us, ladies and gentlemen. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2280	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallatwill be represented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein. [[09:03:31]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2310	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “10 years of EU membership – balance sheet and outlook” First of all, Mr Magistrate. Molterer. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2337	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Last weekend – Friday, Saturday – a very remarkable event took place in Vienna, an event at the invitation of our foreign minister, Dr. Ursula Plassnik, who dealt with the issue and the question of the “10 years of Austria in the European Union”. This event was also remarkable as to whether the presence and the participants in this discussion were: EU Commission President Barroso, German Federal Chancellor Kohl, Old Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, Vice-Cancellor a.D. Busek, Ex-Commissioner Franz Fischler, Ms Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Austrian Commissioner in the European Union, and Alois Mock as the "Mister Europe". This event, ladies and gentlemen, this report of Austria's membership of the European Union can be summarized briefly in a sentence following this discussion, which I have followed. [[Abg. Murauer: Can be seen!]] The summary of this report, ladies and gentlemen, reads as follows: Today, Austria is better off than before joining the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In 1994, the Austrians, with 66 percent in a referendum, said yes to Austria's membership of the European Union in an impressive way. But not only has this quantitative result been impressive – you have all experienced it – but also the emotion, the mood, which existed, and also the inner willingness of the Austrians to take this step to take this very big step for our home country to Europe. Today we can say, ladies and gentlemen: The Austrians decided correctly in 1994! This step taken by Austria to become a member of the European Union to join it was right and proven itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, we must also speak and answer the people in Austria, the Austrians, who took part in this decision at the time. Why is this step correct? Why did he prove himself? For me, there is a whole series or a wealth of arguments for us, I just want to take out the most essential ones. The membership of Austria to the European Union has brought prosperity to our country, ladies and gentlemen. Austria, the Austrians, have become richer by membership of Austria with the European Union. Why? – The growth rates are clearly higher than without membership due to this membership. What does growth mean? Growth means more income, growth means more employment. We have more people at work in Austria than before Austria's membership of the European Union. Of course, this membership has also brought us a massive export boom, it has brought prosperity to the economy and thus to the working people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria has gained international importance through membership of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. Our home country plays an important role in Europe. I would just like to give you an example of why this is so. Without our commitment – and I say that full of self-confidence – for example, the enlargement of the European Union would not have become this success story. Why? – Because Austria has gained much knowledge, much historical knowledge and experience. Think of Croatia, for example! Croatia is about to open accession negotiations. That is why, however, because Austria has clearly said about this step, because it is both a right and a security gain for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Assuming security: The membership of Austria with the European Union is a security gain for the people of our country. Just remember that since the EU enlargement, fewer asylum seekers have come to us! But the EU membership of Austria is also a gain in freedom. Drive yourself to European countries! There's no more passport control. I recently returned from Ukraine. It's unusual when you stand by the customs and have to show the passport again. For us, freedom of travel in Europe has become entirely self-evident. I believe that the enlargement of the European Union is one of the incredible success stories. 20 years ago – a manageable period; 20 years ago! – was the Iron Curtain reality. 20 years in time are actually nothing in history, but in these 20 years, Europe has changed dramatically, fundamentally to the positive, because EU enlargement has finally drawn a final line under separation, and we – this is my firm conviction – only fully implemented our EU accession with this EU enlargement. Now we can say again: We really are in the heart of this continent! Other points are: Opportunities for young people, or the large project of a single currency. But, of course, this balance sheet does not have just sunny pages. There is also some critical question we need to answer because they ask us people. Of course, we are not satisfied with the way in which the European Union deals with our concerns – the ‘transit’ keyword. We must, on the one hand, represent a clear Austrian attitude, but we must also seek partners for the solution of our concerns. Competition has become tighter; that is true. We're in the competition. This means that in competition, as always, there are not only winners, but also losers. It is our job to also provide for these people and for these companies. People also ask: What is this Europe that does not always speak with one voice? - That's a problem. Sometimes Europe is disputed. People have a problem with Europe because it is not sufficiently transparent and transparent. - That's the diagnosis. But what's the right therapy? I believe that ten years of review should also be the occasion to discuss this future strategy politically in this House. The future of Europe is Austria's future! That is why it is our job to deal with this question of the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to explain, discuss and discuss a few points. I do not just want to do this with you, but also with the public and the people, because we need people on this road to Europe. In my opinion, first of all, we need more Europe in many areas. Unfortunately, in Austria, no one or far too few people, including politicians, dare to say that. In security, in defence, in the economic strategy and also in the Constitution, we need more Europe! Secondly, we need a stronger Europe – a Europe that self-confidently defends the European model and does not want to be pushed into the defensive role. We need a Europe that speaks internationally with one voice. I think it is worth discussing, as I say openly, whether it is right that a Member State of the European Union should apply for a permanent seat in the United Nations. Would it not be more appropriate for the European Union to apply for such a seat? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, we need a more understandable, more transparent Europe. I am not referring to the Brussels institutions, because we are always referring to them. Let us think about ourselves and about our own role! European policy must become part of internal policy. We here in Parliament have the task of contributing to making Europe more transparent and transparent. We need to focus more on this European dimension ourselves. That is why I would also like to thank Mr Khol for taking the initiative for the Europeanisation of the Austrian Parliament. This is a contribution to transparency and transparency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fourthly, we need less Europe. As we need more Europe, we also need less Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Less ÖVP!]] Europe does not have to regulate everything. Just think of the Natura 2000 discussion in the regions of Austria! No one has really understood why the European Union wants to regulate everything. No, we also need less Europe. [[President Dr. Kohl gives the bell sign.]] We also need a clear commitment to the Europe political project, to the Europe peace project. The step was right. He's paid off. Europe must be developed daily to enable people to experience Europe on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2475	Ms Plassnik came forward with an introductory opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2497	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has experienced a remarkable boost in growth and development over the last ten years. The number of members has more than doubled. We have introduced a common currency. Yes, we have even drawn up a common European Constitution for 455 million people. Austria has shaped these ten years. We were neither spectators, nor outsiders, nor supporters. We were partners of this project, this development. We made them. We'll take care of her. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With a two-thirds majority, the Austrians decided to join in 1994 at the time. It was the right project, it was the right decision, and it took place at the right time. We can now contribute to the peace project Europe. We can live in a reunited Europe. Our generation has not only cut the Iron Curtain, but we are working on its complete overcoming in the economy and with the people. Austria's contribution to Europe is needed. On the one hand, we bring in our abilities and insights, and on the other hand, European experience strengthens our identity. Good for Austria, good for Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Undisputed is: The location Austria is one of the most attractive today. Exports were more than doubled, foreign investment in Austria more than tripled. Research expenditure has been almost doubled. New jobs, greater purchasing power and prosperity have been achieved. Austria is today the third-richest country in the European Union: We are behind Luxembourg and Ireland, just before Denmark and the Netherlands. But Europe also means more choice, fewer obstacles, better opportunities. First of all, this is evident to consumers. There is clearly a better and bigger supply of goods, not only for imported goods but also for domestic products. Think of the food! There are fewer obstacles to tourists. Border controls, customs tariffs, exchange of money: All of this belongs to the past in Europe. Europe also offers opportunities for students, for young people. Some 78 percent of the Austrian population live in rural areas. It is particularly important for them to do what the Union does for rural development. Straight In This is the area where we are collecting most of the funding from Brussels. This represents almost 10 percent of the total, with a budget share of almost one quarter. Some of our regions are among the most dynamic in Europe. A new study on location suitability for high-tech companies has shown that five Austrian regions are among the best 20 in the EU: Rheintal-Bodenseegebiet, Linz-Wels, Steyr-Kirchdorf, Salzburg and Umgebung, Graz. Other Austrian regions, such as target areas and border regions, have only been liberated from their periphery through EU funding and through the accession of our neighbours. Think about the Burgenland, but also about the Waldviertel and the Mühlviertel! The EU provides fair opportunities. Austria's farmers and regions benefit from these opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Only the joint membership with our neighbours also enables a new quality of the neighborhood. From old neighbours, new partners in Europe have become. Its own central European consciousness is gaining new shape. This slowly fulfils a deeply rooted LIFE guiding principle of Austrian foreign policy, as already contained in the first government declaration of post-war times. I quote from this statement of 27 May. April 1945: “The Free State of Austria wants to live in unmistakable friendship with the peoples of the Danube region and work together with all its neighbours in peace and friendship for the best of all.” [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, Europe also assumes responsibility in the world – whether in the immediate neighborhood, such as the Western Balkans, the Mediterranean, the east of the continent, or in the third world. Europe has more resources, more tools than anyone else. These include trade agreements, development aid, humanitarian aid and disaster aid, as well as support in building democracy and modern state structures. But the internal development of the European Union is also on the rise. The area in which probably the most has happened is the area of internal security. In this area, apart from concerns about the workplace, there are the deepest fears, but also the highest expectations of Europe's citizens. 85 percent want uniform EU rules for the admission of asylum seekers. 71 percent believe that joint action is the best way to combat crime across the EU. Austria takes this issue very seriously: We are working consistently with equal partners on improved border protection and on combating terrorism and crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Internal development also includes business and work, i.e. the questions: How do we secure our jobs in global competition? How do we remove growth brakes? How do we improve education, research and innovation? – Austria is one of the leading countries in this reform process. This is what Commission President Barroso acknowledged only last weekend here in Vienna, as well as the contribution made by Austria in order to raise environmental awareness in Europe. Of course, Europe is not perfect! The citizens of Europe know exactly what they do not want: Centralism, uniformity, regulatory will, acid bureaucracy, administration instead of responsibility. Much of this need for improvement comes from our knowledge of how it should be, from a kind of European home feeling that has always existed, for Europe was never just a headbirth, but always a heart thing. Europe mobilizes, motivates, drives and gives confidence for the future. Europe is also full of opportunities for youth. As an example, I take ERASMUS, a programme that supports students and supports them financially in foreign studies. 1.2 million young Europeans have already benefited from this offer. In the winter semester alone, more than 2 600 Europeans studied in Austria, and 2 800 young Austrians were ERASMUS fellows at the European universities. By the way, there is also a corresponding offer in the LEONARDO programme for apprentices in the field of vocational training. The European dream will be defined in concrete terms by the youth in the next stage: Their experiences, their wishes, will determine the horizon of the great peace and unification work. I will therefore invite them to a Europe Congress of Youth: Austria tomorrow – Europe tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The offer of Europe to ourselves and to our partners in the world is unchanged: Peacekeeping, work on the European economic and social model, respect for diversity and the joy of European colorfulness. Finally, I would like to thank all those in the House who have supported this project in the last decade. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2615	The speaking time of all other participants at the current hour is 5 minutes. First speaker is Mr Dr. Fassleven. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2636	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ten years ago, Austria joined the EU. That was a moment that on the one hand was associated with many fears, but on the other hand also with very many dreams and ideas about the future. If we take stock today, it will certainly be a little soberer. If I ask myself the question: What are the most important achievements, the most important benefits and the most important disadvantages for me?, then I can say the following: As far as the benefits are concerned, the question of prosperity and jobs is on the very top of all. This certainly affects the population most. There we have quite concrete, measurable successes. Secondly, Austria and Europe as a whole have gained enormous security at this time, and I will address it in detail in my further statements. This security gain is undoubtedly one of the strongest benefits we have gained from membership of the European Union and can draw in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In my opinion, the third great advantage lies on the one hand in the profit of meaning for our country, but on the other hand also in the fact that we as a whole, as a society, as a country, have become more secular and look more closely into the future. This is one of the very big dimensions for the future. But one should also ask the question: What is actually the disadvantage of Europe? – Of course you can give details and discuss this or that. This essentially concerns the area of the additional fourth level of administration and government. This certainly does not make things any easier. But if we do, Keep in mind that with this we also came into new dimensions and fields of decision that were not open to us until then, then probably this question is relativizing itself. But now I would like to add some details to the individual dimensions. First of all, I would like to address the areas of prosperity and jobs: It is indeed huge how Austria has developed economically! We have doubled our exports within a few years! The Austrians are probably not aware of the fact that today more than every second euro will be earned not within Austria but abroad. That means that half of our prosperity is due to the fact that we can export to abroad. Since 2002, something has happened, which none of us previously thought possible, namely that we have achieved an export surplus, that we have a positive trade balance. Throughout the decades, the balance of payments was only possible through the revenue from tourism. Today there is already a structure where we have a positive balance sheet only from what we sell. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is not exclusively due to the EU – that is to say – but the reforms that we have carried out – from the tax cuts, the tax model to the incentives for economic activity – and the East opening contributed to this. One thing we can certainly say: We had to work out our own success. The framework provided by the EU. That's essential! The same applies to safety. Just think about what it looked like in the Balkans ten years ago and what role the EU plays there! Remember, too, what role Austria plays with an ambassador Petritsch, with an Erhard Busek and with a German chancellor Schüssel – which the European Union and the Americans were looking forward to the last conference to present European security policy in the Balkans to American President Bush! Austria plays an important role there! We are proud of this, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and thank you for your initiative and your activity in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Moreover, Europe has brought jobs not only to citizens but also the possibility of travelling abroad without a passport and with the same currency. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Much more could be added. It is essential that we do not stop now, but that we build on this future Europe. The European Union gives us the framework for this – we should take the opportunity. Then we have the opportunity to build a large Austria in a large Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2719	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2740	The question is: Why do my previous speakers rejoice, but why is not such a joyful mood in the population? – We should discuss this question because Europe, the European Union, this peace project and, as I hope, social project is a real concern for us. As far as we understood this project at the time – Franz Vranitzky, Brigitte Ederer, Alois Mock and many others fought for the accession of Austria to the European Union – we already wanted to bring European social traditions into the debate on globalisation. It is not about the continuation of globalisation in Europe solely at the expense of the level of wages, at the expense of the standard, at the expense of jobs and at the expense of security. This cannot be the common European project, and we must do something for that! I think a critical reflection is quite solid, necessary and also appropriate. You have to put on two levels. One is the question of whether the European Union is currently moving in the right direction. We have 19 million unemployed in the European Union, 15 percent of EU people live below the EU-wide poverty line. The 2010 objective of the European Union becoming the strongest economic area in the world can no longer be achieved on the basis of EU studies. Something must have gone wrong. There have been initiatives to increase growth in Europe. Not all governments, including the Austrian Federal Government, have supported this from the first moment. However, this growth perspective would have been important if the EU were to become the strongest economic area would have been important if jobs were to be safeguarded. This has not come about, and this has to be critically reflected when one is at the heart of the European Union. There are many other phenomena: the criticism of the citizens of bureaucracy, perhaps also of a lack of democracy, of some of the events in the European Parliament that have rightly been criticised, of a European Commission that is sometimes being withdrawn, even though the Heads of State or Government are trying to take decisions together, implement them and implement them. It was not always clear to the public. Think of the whole process of enlargement! In many countries in Europe, there has been criticism of the pace of this enlargement, of the scale of this enlargement. Consider the decision to open accession negotiations with Turkey, which was decided against the majority will of the population in the European Union. Those who go this way need to know that this does not reduce scepticism towards the EU. There will be no Sunday speeches, there will be no jubilation, but there is a need to take seriously the concerns of the citizens of Europe – and in this case in Austria – seriously. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] I would like to ask for this in this context. Previously, I heard that Austria had achieved a significant profit. I'll argue. I believe that Austria has failed to establish lasting partnerships and to develop alliances, because then we would have been better able to enforce Austrian interests in some areas of the European Union. I'm thinking about the transit question. [[Abg. May. Molterer: climate!]] – I say this critically, no matter what state of government there was, but you make yourself and say with lots of incense swirls: The last few years have been the great gain for Austria in the European Union! - I don't see it like that! In the transit question Austria did not prevail! In the anti-atomic question Austria did not prevail! A fight is now taking place in order to ensure a high-quality and sustainable supply of services to the general public, which is a very important issue. Where has Austria once positioned itself correctly in the question of growth and finally prevailed? – Franz Vrannitzky and the then Federal Government were the last to work for growth and employment, although these were also important objectives in the European Union. There is therefore a great deal of criticism, and it is therefore correct and no coincidence that there is this scepticism of citizens vis-à-vis the European Union. In Austria we currently have 8.9% unemployment, 361,000 people in Austria are without work. If we look at where Austria has positioned itself compared with the 15 members of the European Union before enlargement, as we have lost one position after another, then critical reflection is also recommended by the speakers of the two government parties. I think it would be necessary to see that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2798	Mr Bösch is now speaking. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2819	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ten years of European Union also mean ten years of fundamental upheavals. Mr Cap, you are right to reflect critically on these ten years. It is rather strange that this anniversary year we are not only celebrating the anniversary of the “10 years of Austria’s accession to the European Union”, but also the celebrations “60 years of war” and “50 years of state treaty” with various events in our Republic and remembering these events. It's strange, therefore, because it's actually a big break, because with 1. In January 1995, with Austria's accession to the European Union, the post-war war period actually ended for our country and because with 1. In January 1995 the State Treaty also became a document – a very important document – of our history. Ladies and gentlemen! A country that has taken as impressive and sovereign a step as our Republic has taken, does not need any more signat arms, but, Mr Cap, you have said that correctly, needs partners; Partners for this path into the new Europe, and we want to take this path with the liberals. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The European Union, ladies and gentlemen, is an experiment. We must all be aware of this. There is no historical precedent. This continent has never tried to reach a peaceful agreement. It has never succeeded in taking this path without the domination of a powerful state in Europe. That is what this European Union is doing. That is why the European Union – one can stand on it in different ways, as one wants – is the vehicle with which we, our generation, are going this way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Austria's participation in our Freedoms has actually become a matter of course. We have considered EU accession critical. We have brought in many critical aspects of development. Nevertheless, I believe we respect the impressive 1994 referendum outcome and believe that the European Union is on the right track. We want the European Union experiment to succeed. The objective of this Union must be – and my previous speakers, such as Mr Molterer, have already mentioned it – to ensure prosperity and security, to guarantee prosperity and security for the coming generations as well, and it is therefore important that we continue to play a powerful role in future European policy. One of these positions means deepening before further expansion. This point is of a very special importance. Our aim must be to ensure that all those elements that are important to the functioning of Europe – Mr Molterer has addressed a number of important aspects – that these mechanisms are also implemented in the political leadership of all the Member States of the European Union, that Europe grows together in those areas where it is important, for example in the field of security, for example in the external representation. All of this must be done before further enlargement. On this path, too, Austria has achieved some remarkable things. We should not put our light under the casket. Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you of the time of sanctions, the year 2000, when sanctions against our country have been declared unlawful by the other Member States of the European Union and our country has, as it were, been forced out of the EU over a certain period of time, although not legally, mentally. Austria has fought this time, and we can all be proud that we have shown self-confidence here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another point is also the debate on Turkey's accession to the EU, Mr Cap! You know, in these negotiations at European level, this particular federal government has achieved essential things, things that you have still scoffed at in the debate when we talked about them. It is now stated in the document that the negotiations will be open, and it is stated in the document that if there is no accession with Turkey, there will be other contractual arrangements – and that is what we want! We want the Turkish Republic to establish a model contract which applies to all other countries that also want to go to the European Union, but which we must say honestly and in time: You can never join! These are especially Ukraine and Belarus, two countries of the former Soviet Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last ten years, we liberals have seen as quite positive, we also recognise the need for a medium-sized country, such as Austria, to consistently represent its interests – and we will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2907	Next, Mrs Mag. Lunacek to the speaker's desk. Your speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e2929	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is true that in these last ten years, Austria has changed a lot. If we remember what it was like ten years ago, then we must say: There were very many expectations, positive expectations, but also very many fears, and that has changed a lot, but not all for a long time. We Greens were very skeptical at the time. In the meantime, we have turned to a party, to people who are in favour of this European Union, but for a social, an ecological and a peace union, and we are fighting for it, because unfortunately it is not all that way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Where?]] – Mr Grossruck asks where. We are the first, above all all, to set up a European party last year and to actually work together at European level. Let that be said! [[Abg. Big Truck: That's very little, poor!]] This commitment to a social Europe, to an ecological Europe and to a peace project in Europe also means, for example, that we must fight against very neoliberal tendencies. The latest example is this Bolkestein Directive, which means that services are to be paid as much as in the country of origin. This means a social and quality dumping of the special kind. Do you know who is one of the pioneers of this Bolkestein directive? Minister Bartenstein! He thinks we have to move on. This is supposed to be a Bartenstein directive! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Stay with the truth!]] Against these tendencies, ladies and gentlemen, we Greens are fighting. We would also expect this from a federal government that constantly writes sustainability on its flags. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true! Tell the truth!]] As far as parliamentary debates are concerned, I am also very glad that we will be hearing Members of the European Parliament and also the Austrian Commissioner here in the future. But this is not only due to Mr President Khol, but I would remind you that this was discussed in the context of the Constitutional debate and within the framework of the Conference of the European Committees of National Parliaments and that it will be now in all countries, and that I think it is very useful to be able to listen here to Members of the European Parliament or Commissioners who are not Austrian or Austrian women. Perhaps we could change that in the future. I would like to address one aspect which has been partially stressed by members of the EIA. I was very surprised that neither Mr Molterer nor Mrs Plassnik had a word about Austrian neutrality in connection with security and defence and foreign policy. Mrs Minister, at the beginning of your term of office, you said how important Austrian neutrality is to you. There's nothing left to hear about it. You mentioned the security and defence policy, the common foreign policy. But where is the indication that Austria and also this Federal Government are still on the ground of the Constitution, defend Austrian neutrality, want an active neutrality policy, and also set it in the context of the EU? [[Abg. Scheibner: What is this within the EU, an active neutrality policy?]] Only very late in the Intergovernmental Conference did the Austrian Federal Government work with other neutral and non-union-free states to join forces in the Constitution that each state would become active in accordance with its own constitution, its own constitutional law. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does that mean in practice, what is it?]] This means that we are still on the ground of this neutrality. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has nothing to do with the EU at all!]] You know that this means an active peace policy and that it must also mean a rejection of any involvement and any planning that one might join NATO once. These words we have heard far too little from the Chancellor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are still some in the ÖVP who say: NATO would not be bad, just after the last summit with Bush and with the EU in Brussels. [[Abg. Scheibner: Puffblasen are these!]] The Federal Chancellor himself said that he wanted Austria's participation in the structured cooperation of a military core Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a very clear no for this. That is why I find it very interesting that the word neutrality is not found in the info brochure on the EU Constitution, which was published by the Federal Government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must not be surprised that there is great scepticism in the Austrian population towards this European Union, because it has the impression that this federal government is not being informed honestly and correctly and that it does not always say everything it has in mind. We call for an honest European policy! Mrs Minister, if you say that we are allowed to co-form, I shall put it another way. I say: Austria must, and wants to be part of it! However, we also need to be more committed to this than this Federal Government has done so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3078	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3100	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Helmut Rechberger – this is a special personal story – was welcomed by representatives of the critical television viewers. I would like to say, after having been noted in very critical form by Mrs Lunacek, that we are hiding on certain issues such as neutrality: Whoever's insecure here, that's you! We do not need to stress on the subject of neutrality that we act on the ground of the Constitution and on the ground of the laws. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But what is right and what I would like to address here is that after the euphoria of the years 1994 and 1995, we now feel a slightly different mood in the population. In “Openly said” on Sunday, it has also been said that the EU is the scapegoat. Many of our citizens make the EU directly responsible for what they feel, for bureaucracy, for the partial growth problems, and perhaps make it a little easy without looking at the facts. That is why this year is so important that we take stock, deal with what has actually happened in the last ten years, and then work and work on this basis accordingly. We have created the best conditions for the economy and the economic framework in the last ten years. Something very important has already been mentioned by a previous speaker: We're playing economically what's going on in a different league. We don't play in the District League anymore, but we play in the Champions League, and you see that on the basis of the councils. We have doubled our exports over the last ten years and have the best performance in Ireland throughout the EU. Ireland has an annual average increase of 11.2 percent and we have an increase of 10.5 percent. But what is even more important than that we have increased exports, is that we have been able to reduce imports. In other words, our current account is rebalanced after years of deficit. Why this is so is explained simply because we have improved our labour productivity. We still have what the unit labour costs are in 1995 on the 11th. ==References====External links== The place's moving forward. Competitiveness depends decisively on unit labour costs, and we have really developed very well. This is also reflected in the World Competitiveness Report accordingly. The Score Card shows that in 1994 we were on 28. ==References====External links== I've been working on space. This is a huge success for the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: It is precisely in the balance sheets, which are now constantly being drawn from EU membership, that Mrs State Secretary Ederer and her famous 1 000 S are very often talking about. – If you take it exactly, look at the inflation rates: We had more than 3 percent in 1993 and before. We have never had this 3 percent over the entire 10 years, perhaps now have a bit of problems due to rising oil prices, but generally always rates by 1 to 2 percent, once, in 1999, it was even only 0.6 percent. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – This is really interesting for television viewers! – That means, even after Wifo studies, that we save $1 billion in the year. Conversion to the 1 000 s of Mrs Ederer's Secretary of State: As an Austrian you save 145 € per person. – This is the benefit of the EU! Perhaps the biggest, the really biggest advantage, ladies and gentlemen, is: We have changed our structures, we are slowly moving from the raw materials industry to technology orientation, to innovation orientation, as it is internationally usual, and the EU has helped us. Why the EU? – Because many research resources have come to us in this context because there were EU framework programmes and the right measures have also been taken by the Federal Government. If you look at the business start-up statistics and all the measures, you can find that it is not the case that there are only large ones. We have 30,000 new businesses per year, 1,000 more small businesses! – The EU is therefore a good ground for us, for our businesses and – because businesses are not a self-interest – thus for the jobs in Austria. These have developed positively in the EU comparison, we have achieved a top position! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken the opportunities in the EU. I think you of the opposition should also see: EU is not a result, EU is a process, and we need to make this process our best contribution, otherwise we will be designed!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3173	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3199	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should strive to be fair and balanced in assessing these ten years of Austria in the EU. It is true that there are major problems in the EU, and it is true that if there is no success in creating more employment in Europe, all the right and beautiful words will turn away from the great idea and from the peace project if people have no work. But it is also true that it was right and important for our country to join the EU and that a role of Austria outside the EU is neither economically nor politically imaginable today. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria has been well integrated, it is true that we are listening to us, it is true that our Commissioner Fischler played a real role in this decade, it is true that the Austrian MEPs in the European Parliament play an important role – if I do not see some of the comments that are not very helpful – and it is true that, after initial difficulties, as well as at official and other levels, the mechanisms of the EU are useful. But it is also true that one should not only look at everything through the pink jubilee glasses and that there have also been misevaluations and mistakes. Yes, the right consideration that the small countries in the EU can only be strong together and can offer the large paroli has only begun to be slow and varied and too loud in some statements of Austria. The large-scale partnership of Austria with the new Central and Eastern European accession countries in this area was initially inadequate and overly burdened by bilateral issues, but we should also see that there are now good contacts and, fortunately, Austria is now increasingly taking up a place as the expert on Balkan and Eastern European issues in the EU. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Both are right: the mistakes made and the progress that can be seen. We have also had misevaluations on other issues. I think it was one of the great misevaluations – I would like to take this very briefly now – that one believed on the issue of security policy or that the government believed that it was hindering us from being neutral and from being a member of NATO, and that this supposed disability led us to hinder ourselves from playing an active role in foreign policy issues. Fortunately, this has now given way to a new assessment, and I believe that we can now also play a role as a neutral in the EU and in European policy. It is only then that we should maintain this role, Mrs Federal Minister! The fact that we're going to fall back on the Battle Groups' question and give up a supposed pressure right away would be wrong. I think we should stick to the line, too, and this line means: Use of Austria outside the EU only on the basis of a UN mandate and a UN decision. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In Parliament too, it has taken a long time – and we must say so fairly – and I am glad that it is now time for us to focus more on European issues. This is also a challenge for all of us, and I do not take up my own group, which concerns everyone. We are inclined to do half of the tasks we still have nationally, here in Parliament with the same To deal wide as before with the other, because there are domestic policy issues because it plays a role in the elections because it plays a role in the constituency. We should also address the European issues, which already account for half of our work, in the same time intensity not only in the subcommittee, not only in the EU's main committee, but also in the plenary session for television broadcasts, because then the people of this country would also see that this is a new level, a new, important level of our action. [[General condolences.]] We must see the EU as a level of political action, as a new level, where we can also act for our country, for the people of our country and beyond for people in the other countries of this continent – and the EU is not the whole of Europe, the whole of Europe is bigger – for all these people.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3269	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3290	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, as in other European discussions, the question is always asked: Why is the scepticism in the population still so high, although everything is so great – in Austria, in Europe, through the European Union and with the European Union? . I believe that with one reason for this scepticism there is also a natural feeling in the population that in the European Union there is a difference between what is said and what is written on the one hand and what is reality on the other, and that there is a distance, a gap between the Councils and the institutions in Brussels on the one hand and the people, the citizens, the population on the other. I believe that this is a problem that we must deal with, especially as a people's representative. People also have the feeling that information is not always being dealt with honestly, for a variety of reasons, and in Austria we also have to take the nose if we have been letting EU membership happen for ten years. Was that not always a bit of a problem in information policy, from the beginning, even before the 1994 referendum? At the time, 1994/1995, has it not been possible to establish a national consensus in European policy? At the time, in information policy, did we not talk about everything and fail to address the problems, which, of course, existed at the time, the difficulties, the disadvantages, the fears of the population? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Shouldn't you have to prepare yourself more actively? Would it not have been necessary to negotiate one or another more actively and consistently? I would remind you of the transit agreement, which is still making such problems for us today, because the negotiations did not take place for the next 10, 15, 20 years. Mr Schieder, as you address neutrality – that is also a matter and so significant –: They say today that we must uphold our neutrality – and Mrs Lunacek has also said that – and we must bring it into the European Union. Only: You know very well that outside the borders of Austria, no one understands this question, this problem at all, that this is an internal Austrian discussion. You, too, who are very intensive in foreign policy, know that this is a different reality. Otherwise it would not have been said to the population that we will enter the European Union as a neutral country. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr Colleague, the whole EU is more and more acting than if it were neutral!]] Yes, Mr Arbitrator – and at the same time agree a page letter with the European Union, which will not be published. At that time, Austria has already become fully aware of the objectives of the common security and defence policy. If you say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, UN mandate for military operations!, then you know very well that this is not possible. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Why not?]] Otherwise, Mr. Cot, you would not have... [[Abg. Arbitrator: The Side Letter show you here once!]] Well, I'd like to show you that! [[Abg. Arbitrators: I don't know him!]] We also discussed this Page Letter at the time, which you had to say goodbye to, because the European Union was afraid that there would be a treadboard driver. Other countries have done this. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Show it here once, the Side Letter!]] You also know exactly why you amended the Austrian Constitution in 1998, where Austria's participation in military operations has been anchored, even without the mandate of the United Nations. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Aha! Aha!]] You know all that, but you always say something different in public. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Refusal of reality! - That's a zigzag course!]] I say: We acknowledge that this European Union must also be a security union and that our neutrality has changed fundamentally, that it is no longer a question of interpreting neutrality as it was in 1955, but of not participating in wars – of course, there is a consensus! – that there should be no permanent stationing of foreign troops in Austria – consensus! – that there is no membership in a purely military alliance at present, and that there will probably not be a consensus even in the foreseeable future! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You confess that there is no need for a UN mandate?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (pointing to the SPÖ fraction) A zigzag course is that! – Crisis meeting!]] But this is quite different from what was understood by neutrality in 1955. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Honesty, openness, dynamics: That would be a sensible European policy! There is still a lot to be done, because the Security Union is only on paper in large areas, just as the Economic Union or the Social Union is only on paper. There is an important task for Europe – and there is no alternative to the European Union if you say yes to Europe. But one must also practice criticism, because only then will this joint project of a united, peaceful Europe become a recipe of success and a story of success.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3462	The last speaker is Mr Oellinger. His speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3483	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Europe has not yet reached the citizens. If you ask me: We're just about to have this discussion. Look across Europe at how the citizens of Europe or the citizens of the nation states are currently on the agenda when Europe is on the agenda to deal with it! – This is not an accusation to citizens, but there is still a lot of policy in terms of transparency as regards co-decision as regards the possibilities for the citizens of this Europe to perceive as their common Europe at all. Look Just like you're discussing here in this hall! Mr Molterer, I listened very carefully to your speech. On the one hand, you say the competition, well, it has become sharper. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's it!]] Yes, but please, on the other hand, we conjure up and conjure up the common Europe. My colleague, Mr Lunacek, has not rightly pointed out that, as a government, for example, with Mr Bartenstein, but also with the former Commissioner Bolkestein, you are planning a service directive which would provide for Austria to offer services to 25 different national standards, to 25 different levels of pay, to 25 different labour regulations, to 25 different worker protection rules. [[Call to the ÖVP: That's not true at all!]] Do you know what this should have to do with growing up together? – Nothing has to do with growing together! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That would be terrible, not just for Austria, but for Europe. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But it's just not true what you're saying!]] Second point: Mr. Fassleven! They have rightly said that Austria has “been more open as a country in recent years. ” – I liked this formulation quite well. Correct: As a country, we have actually become more worldly. What I miss is that the government would have been a little more open in these last ten years. Where, then, are we worldly as a government when it comes to dealing with our own minorities? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Place panels – I remember you! – Where are you world wide as a government when it comes to dealing with sexual minorities differently? – As a government not open, as a population very well. People in this country think quite differently about these questions. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] Correct: It is also an incredible advantage for young people – and I do not dispute what Europe has brought at all – to be able to move freely in this Europe, to be able to see Europe in other countries in the framework of ERASMUS or other programmes. Right! But we must – and that is not just this government, but, of course, the European government – also give this youth a chance for the future. If you read the current labour market data, not only for the academic youth, but also for the unqualified, then you know that we have a lot to do here, which has not been done in recent years. The Austrians have become richer, says Mr Molterer. [[Deputies Mag. Lunacek and Dr. Gabriela Moser :What?]] – Only partially! If we produce the social report, not only the Austrian one, but also the German social or poverty report, we know that today's Europe has also increased the gap between poor and rich than it has been in the last ten years or ten years. Mr Molterer, the wealth, the wealth you have promised, is not as distributed as he should have been. If you, Mr Molterer, have said - and I have listened carefully - that we need more Europe, then I agree with you, but not in the points you have raised, namely in security, defence and economic policy, but in environmental policy and social policy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: In social policy?]] But I don't hear anything from this government, I don't hear from Europe! [[Abg. May. Molterer: More Europe in Social Policy? - That's where it's going down!]] There is nothing to be heard in tax policy, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's where it's going down!]] We cannot afford this tax competition between the national states of Europe. Politics, whether in Austria or at European level, urgently needs a change of direction!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3642	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[10:09:05]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3663	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3931	I announce that Members Dr. Eva Glawischnig, colleagues and colleagues have called for urgent consideration of the written question tabled before entering the agenda 2718/J by Dr Eva Glawischnig, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology concerning Tempo 160 as a symbol of the continued traffic and environmental failure of FPÖ and ÖVP. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. We are now going into the agenda for today's sitting. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e3959	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 minutes and Green 117 minutes. The following speaking time agreements were also made for the debate between 10.10 and 13.00, which was transmitted by the ORF: first of all, one speech per group of 15 minutes, then one word of 12 minutes by a member of the government, then one word of 10 minutes per group, then one word of 6 minutes each, then one word of 5 minutes each, and one word of 6 minutes each, and one word of 5 minutes each. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office's speaking time will be distributed evenly to the political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak. Furthermore, there is agreement that actual corrections and word reports for business treatment will only be called after 1 p.m. That's what the Hoge Haus decides. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join the proposal of the Presidential Conference to give a sign on this point. – This will be decided unanimously. [[10:11:26]] First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for the year 2006 together with investments (830 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4010	We now come to the only item on the agenda on which 88 speakers have spoken so far. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. His speaking time is 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4037	Mr President. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we heard a very impressive budget speech from the Minister of Finance in the House. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Cheers! Cheers! Cheers!]] He presented us with a budget estimate, which I am convinced is an important building block for what has been described in recent days as “Austria’s success model”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore looking forward to the budgetary consultations we will be carrying out here in this House in the next few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! If I say, I am glad, then of course I know that as a representative of a government party, I am doing a bit easier than you are as an opposition party. But look, all over the world it's like this: The better the government, the harder it is for the opposition! That's the lot of opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the beginning of my speech, however, I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Finance, especially in the budget section, the head of section Dr. Steger and his staff. We have received excellent budgetary documents that provide all the conditions regarding clarity, correctness and transparency. We can really conduct budgetary consultations here in full transparency of the numerical material. Thank you very much, Mr Steger, also to your employees! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget, this 2006 Federal Estimate, is an important step in the context of a consciously longer-term economic policy strategy. It was the governments who took the criticism of politics seriously, which for years said: Politicians think only in legislative periods! We said in 2000: We want to make a conscious concept, where is Austria to stand 2010? and have made a strategy over two and a half legislative periods to demonstrate sustainability and consistency. This 2006 budget is an important stage target in this longer-term strategy, ladies and gentlemen, which deliberately aims at three strategic objectives. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] First: Stability in the government budget. Ladies and gentlemen! There can be no growth without stability, there can be no employment. Stability does not mean zero deficit – we were pleased to have achieved this as a signal in 2001 – but stability means having a balanced government budget over the economic cycle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Now, Mr President, I admit that a net deficit of 1.7 percent, isolated in space, does not actually say much. Only: The comparison makes us sure! Let me therefore make a few comparisons. For 25 years, a quarter of a century of Social Democratic Finance Minister, in the period 1974 to 1999, there was a net deficit of more than 2% each year, ladies and gentlemen. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] On average, it was 3.1 percent. This government averages 1.1 per cent in six years, ladies and gentlemen, a third of what social-democratic finance ministers have brought together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Let me make a second comparison, ladies and gentlemen; I come to your call, Mr President. Second comparison – we are not isolated; before we had a European debate here –: We have 1.7 percent net deficit, the euro area, the twelve most important EU countries have an average net deficit of 2.5 percent. That means we are better than the eurozone as a whole, ladies and gentlemen. [[The ÖVP members place on their banks tables of various content, such as: “budget 2006: more for jobs”, “budget 2006: more for education”, budget 2006: more for infrastructure, “Austria’s success is Wolfgang Schüssel” as a newspaper headline, “budget 2006: more for the environment”, and leave them there for some time.]] [[In return, in the SPÖ series, a panel is kept in height with the content: “Politics of education! Black and blue at the end! Austria deserves better!"]] Third example – and with that I come back to Your calls –: We consciously signaled in the years 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 a business package I, a business package II, a growth and location package and a tax reform in two stages: We need a discharge strategy to stimulate growth and employment! [[Abg. Riepl: Where is the economy?]] Today, we would have a slight surplus in this 2006 budget if we did not drive this necessary discharge strategy. To your call: You have been there in recent years too!, Mr Commissioner, I would not have made this call in your place, because you will find in the budget documents the proof that, if we, which we entered the government in 1986, had not taken over the debt mountain of 16 years of socialist solo government and of three years of small coalition, we have always had primarily surpluses. In the operating business we were always positive. You can't disprove this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I've said it before: I am only... – Mr Matznetter, I am only prepared to discuss very specific facts and data – and not by means of such loud calls that you make in polemics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can say one more thing: You will certainly be addressing the famous future savings package in this debate and also in the coming weeks. [[Abg. Gaal: This is an embarrassing speech!]] For us, saving is a positive concept, for us saving is not a unique action, for us saving is a continuous process, and for us it is called saving – unlike you! – not to save at the expense of citizens, but to use citizens' tax resources as efficiently as possible. That means saving us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Savings continues to mean structural reforms and tight discipline in the budget implementation. That's where you have our full support, Minister of Finance. That means saving for us! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let me say one more thing: We government parties will not allow if, for example, the Minister of Finance – as yesterday in his budget speech – answers the question of social security, which is immediately decommissioned, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I bring an example: If a well-known couple of actors are affected by this question, this will excite the whole country, but if that's someone more unknown, then we don't even know. Let's be honest here, and let's be fair here! This discussion must be conducted in this way. [[Abg. Heinzl: This is your party!]] I would like to say something to you, Mr President: Saves apply to all branches. For example, saving also applies to health. There too, savings are not at the expense of the health of the citizens, but we want the economical and efficient use of the funds. An example from my constituency: We had three hospitals in Allensteig, Eggenburg and Horn years ago. Today we have a forest quarter clinic with three locations. It's a huge difference whether you have a hospital with three locations or three hospitals! That is to say, there are the objectives of ensuring the highest quality, but at the same time keeping the costs under control, fully fulfilled, because there is only one medical director, only one head of the care service, only one commercial director and the whole back office area, the entire administration only once. This means highest quality assurance, but at the same time cost reduction. This is a modern health policy for us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Next strategic focus: Liberation of citizens and businesses as the second important strategic objective in addition to stability in the government budget. You know, 1. January 2005: the largest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic. It was consciously accepted that the net deficit would rise slightly in order to strengthen the economic location. [[Call the SPÖ:For the economy!]] What Does “Economics ” Mean? Economic location means jobs, i.e. income opportunities and social security, Mr President. That's business location! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have deliberately strengthened the purchasing power of the families. We're a family party. This coalition government has an open heart for the families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] We, Mrs Colleague, have also removed 300 000 people from the pay and income tax obligation. It is a fact that 40 percent of all wage and income taxpayers today no longer pay wage and income tax at all. [[Call at the SPÖ: It is becoming more and more embarrassing!]] 2.5 million people in Austria do not pay any wage and income tax at all. This is not supposed to be a success in tax policy, ladies and gentlemen? You can't question that still so loud on your side! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this context, let me also compare: We had a tax and tax rate with a maximum of 44.8 percent, we will reach such a rate of 40.7 percent next year. I know these two naked numbers don't say a lot, but what's behind that? After that, we pay 10 percent less tax today than we did five years ago. This is an excellent current account of this government and this Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Third strategic priority: Investment in the future. – You can read many protocols and see: I have been criticising budget policy for years and I have said that we are far too little investing in the future, because politics is future design. What does the balance sheet look like today? [[More recently, in the SPÖ series, the panel becomes the content: “Politics of education! Black and blue at the end! Austria deserves better!" kept in height.]] The balance sheet is as follows: It was spent by 35 percent on research and development in the six years of the Governments' bowl I and bowl II more than six years before. It is spent by 60 percent more on infrastructure, road/rail, than six years before. This is an excellent balance of policy as a design of the future! It is therefore not a coincidence if the International Monetary Fund says: Austria is a model example of successful reforms in Europe. There is no coincidence when viewed newspapers write: ‘Austria’s success model’. It is no coincidence if the respected “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” writes, this political turn has done the country well. Why did she do good to the country? – Here you see it on the benches. [[on the tables mentioned earlier in the series of the EIA]] First: More prosperity! – The available income is now €16 billion higher than five years ago. Secondly, More social security! – €9 billion more social expenditure today compared to five years ago. Thirdly, Less debt! – We have saved €500 million each year in interest payments through the consolidation of the government budget alone. [[The representatives of the ÖVP gradually remove the panels from their banks.]] The Minister of Finance has rightly said yesterday that this course will continue over the next few years, a discharge from citizens and businesses. The most sustainable tax reduction is a debt brake, because only a debt brake creates the prerequisite for further tax relief for our citizens. Let me say, in the run-up to the other speakers, also with regard to the next speaker, Dr Gusenbauer: I think we should be happy about this current account together. It is not only a current account of the government, it is also a current account of the whole country. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann holds a tablet with the contents “Million Count Eurofighter! Black and blue at the end! Austria deserves better!"]] [[In response, some ÖVP delegates put tables on their banks again.]] We can only create the framework conditions, but ultimately it is the people in this country who enjoy this current account. Look You don't look so sad, you're looking forward to this excellent current account with us! Put your negative energy, I'd almost say back! What could we move together if you took the outstretched hand of the Minister of Finance? He stretched her out yesterday, when he said, We are working together for this country! Let's work together for this beautiful country! This would be my appeal for the budget consultation of the next few days: We are working together on a future strategy for this country! Please take this invitation, Mr Gusenbauer! You have the word after me now. I'll invite you to: Let us make constructive, objective, forward-looking budget consultations in the House!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4320	Ladies and gentlemen! I see that we will now start the “noble contest”: Who has the more beautiful, colorful and meaningful Taferln? [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and calls to the ÖVP.]] I have held in the Presidential Conference that after some time we will do away with the Taferls. I therefore asked Mr Klubobmann Molterer to let go of the Taferls after ten minutes. [[Call the SPÖ: Ten minutes?]] That's what happened. I will do the same with the other political groups. All in all, however, I believe that we should consider Taferl's practice. The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Speech time: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4355	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have nothing against it at all if the ÖVP still keeps its beautiful taferls on the benches for a while, because if it demands: ‘More money for the labour market!’, ‘More money for education!’, ‘More money for health!’, this is nothing but a comprehensive mistrust against the Austrian Federal Government and against the budget that has been presented here, because all you demand here is not in the budget. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not a requirement, it is an implementation!]] [[Abg. May. Controller: This is reality!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven briefly holds a board in the height with a newspaper headline of the contents: “Austria’s success is called Wolfgang Schüssel”.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is actually the question of whether we are discussing the budget speech of the Minister of Finance today or whether we are discussing the budget, because the budget speech of the Minister of Finance has had absolutely nothing to do with what is available in the budget. That is, we have a finance minister who is in a virtual reality created by him who has relatively little to do with the realities on Mother Earth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: So far to the outstretched hand!]] The outstretched hand of the Minister of Finance is that the Minister of Finance has continued his speech on propaganda, which he believes only more himself, yesterday. If this is your understanding of outstretched hand, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, then I am really sorry, then you have no idea of cooperation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is opposition pure! Pure cast builder!]] Now to a few points of the budget: It seems to me that the budget creation must have been somewhat arbitrary. The question arises whether the thumb was deeply sucked in order to have some information in this budget. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out the document ‘Budget Report’. For example, in the budget report, there is the indication that corporate tax revenue in 2006 should amount to €3 250 million. On the other hand, the correction sheet says that they should amount to €3.8 billion. After all, this is a “small” difference, a difference of 550 million €! That's a very substantial sum! They're already wondering: Why is such a correction being carried out in the last minute? It may have been that the budget does not go out completely, and it has been said: We still have to adjust the estimates, paper is patient, you can write in for the first time what you want, in the end you will find out how successful it is!Unknown term type: "%s".? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is really not a serious budgetary policy! You can already be wrong, but you can't get €550 million in a single tax category. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is to be serious budgetary policy, then good night! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In your speech yesterday, Mr Finanzminister, you have forgotten that you have lost €1.4 billion in the implementation of the year 2004 – and this is the last budget year that has expired – I emphasize: $1.4 billion! – and therefore the budget deficit by 0.7 percentage points in execution was higher than you have assumed. So if you accept the same uncertainty about the budget you presented to us yesterday, then the question arises as to what the implementation will really look like in 2006. There is enough evidence to justify the qualification that you cheated on the 2006 budget – that you cheated because you had prepared this budget for the election date and because you know very well that the consequence of this scam budget will be a very massive wave of stress the day after the election. That is the truth of this budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That doesn't even believe their own people!]] I'm just calling a seemingly small example from your budget. They assume deficits in the health system for 2006, which differ from the official data of the main association by around €150 million per year, and in the 2007 budget plan, the difference to the figures of the main association is already €300 million. What, ladies and gentlemen, does that mean for those concerned? If you want to compensate for this €150 million alone, for example, by increasing the recipe fee, this means nothing but an increase in the recipe fee, for example, by 50 percent to €6.50, then this means, for example, the introduction of an e-card fee of €57 per person. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the very specific concerns contained in this budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] It is not surprising, therefore, that today individual newspapers behind the statements of yesterday's Minister of Finance suspect that this government is also planning deep cuts in the social system. Mr President, you have told us what you mean by saving. I say to you that in recent years you have clearly shown what the ÖVP means to save, namely: To increase taxes, fees and taxes and to operate social reduction in Austria. This is the ÖVP tax concept, ladies and gentlemen. – Whenever the truth is told, you will be nervous, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 10 percent less taxes!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Also interesting was the fact that yesterday the Minister of Finance and already the day before the Federal Chancellor stressed that there would be no savings package, no new increases in taxes and so on. If this is so clear, you have to ask yourself the question: How did you keep it with the truth in the past? [[Abg. Schöls: D’rum says the chief, the cast farmer is... controversial! All right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially at home in front of the TV screens! You will remember that Federal Chancellor Schüssel said before the election that there would be no pension reductions. What happened in 2003, 2004? – The most massive pension reductions that have ever occurred in the history of our country! [[Call the ÖVP: Go, go, go!]] What did the Federal Chancellor say before the election on the purchase of interception hunters? – This will not cost taxpayers any euro! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] What happened after the election? – The Austrian taxpayers will pay 28 billion schillings for the purchase of interception hunters. And what did you promise on questions of tax reform before the election? – The Finance Minister and the Federal Chancellor have promised that there will be €1,000 tax relief for everyone. What happened? – A tax reform, which on average brings a relief of €11. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Go, go!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this way, before the election always announce the opposite of what you do after the election, you will not convince anyone next time. You stand here and say there's no savings package – in fact you've already prepared the load addicts. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Propos tax reform: There are wonderful television stations, the Federal Government's propaganda measures, which one cannot afford all this due to the tax reform. Wonderful, you can afford an Italian holiday – it turns out: [[Abg. Neudeck: But not in your category!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Not in Tuscany of course!]] It is enough for a simple train from Vienna to Gloggnitz! Then it is suggested that you can afford a new car. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But the wine of the Gusenbauer is not true!]] What is not said is that at best a matchbox car goes out, but not a real passenger car. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then it is even suggested that you could afford a new dress. – This tax reform will not even give you a cottage, given what comes out of this tax reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You must not be surprised at the fact that the people of your country feel rather fooled by you, because the tax reform does not, of course, come to people. What do you think is the biggest tax reform of all time? Income from wages in 2004: € 17.1 billion, wage tax revenue in 2005: 17.0 billion € – that is, very significantly less – of wage tax revenue in 2006 already 17.7 billion €. [[Abg. Großruck: He had the same paper three years ago!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: More employment! More income!]] If you are taking more and more taxes on wages, you should not be surprised that your supposed tax reduction does not come to the population. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Don't you want more employment and more income?]] It is true what the President of the Court of Auditors said here on the last financial statements. He said that the tax reform for wage earners was not even the bill of cold progression. Therefore, it is not a tax reform, but in reality only a comparison of cold progression. – All that you suggest to the population here does not come into reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that people have the impression that everything... – Mr. Molterer, I know: [[Abg. May. Molterer: The truth is that the speech is embarrassing!]] What you least can bear is the truth, and what you can at least endure is the concrete concern of the Austrian population. You will be presented with the invoice at the next elections, with the right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Like last time? 42 percent the last time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at all of this, you have to realize: The population has the right to feel it all becomes more expensive. We had an inflation rate of 2.9 percent in January, an estimated annual inflation rate of around 2.1 percent. What the Minister of Finance failed yesterday is that this rate of inflation is significantly higher than the European average. Many people therefore have the impression that they no longer have money in their pocket, but that they can afford less. And that's why dissatisfaction with your policy is so great! Nor have you faced the real challenges of the future in the budget. The Minister of Finance said yesterday that we must fight unemployment together. He has also just said what he understands. He meant that we should strengthen flexibilization, which – translated for television viewers – means nothing more than that we should work more and get less wages than thanks to it. [[Abg. Grandruck: They know that anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The people are not as stupid as you believe, Mr. Colleague!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with a concept of performance, because we believe that those who work more should also get more money. And if you punish those who work more by shortening their incomes, it does not bring jobs or additional income. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the debate on education, Mrs. Gehrer has made a number of proposals – not all bad, just: The budget does not cover all these additional measures! Not a single euro! On the contrary! Professor Van der Bellen has pointed out the cuts in compulsory schools. At the universities, the funds are reduced. They place “More money for infrastructure”, and in reality more than €200 million will be cut in public infrastructure expenditure. [[Abg. Gahr: It has never been spent as much as now!]] The funds for science and research for what is in the budget will be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! Given the highest level of unemployment in our country, €10 million more for active labour market management – this would help to address the problem of unemployment? You can't be serious! They have not been concerned about the labour market so far, and there is no provision in the budget for improving the situation on the labour market in Austria. Finally, on safety: In view of rising crime rates, falling awareness rates, the new budget provides less for internal security! Ladies and gentlemen, you will not really believe that you will get more security with fewer gendarmen and fewer police! This path has already proved to be false in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Schlögl!]] If the Minister of Finance had given an honest budget speech yesterday, he would have said – I come to the conclusion, Mr President – that: [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] There is no more money for education unless you pay all the school money, the labour market still doesn't matter to us, but choose us as thanks, then the burden wave does not come before the election, but after the election! Best regards – Wolfgang Schüssel and Karl-Heinz Grasser.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4816	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. His speaking time is also 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e4837	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Gusenbauer, President of the Party, whether there are tables or sulphurs – the budget that we have today is a future budget that Austria will consistently continue to bring forward. You can believe this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The budget, which the Minister of Finance presented to us yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, is also something like a location provision, is something like a future programme. It raises as important questions as: Where is Austria? Where do we want to go with Austria? What goals do we set? What measures do we need in order to keep Austria competitive as a working and economic location so that we can create work so that we can generate growth in Austria and that the Austrians will be even better in the future? The answers to this budget have also been given. We create a balanced budget over the economic cycle, we will achieve a zero deficit by 2008, we will generate more growth and jobs through investment in infrastructure, research and development, and we will implement two very important measures that you, Mr Gusenbauer, are constantly calling into question: Unlike your economic programme, we lower taxes and invest in the infrastructure in a sustainable way because we know that investments in infrastructure create sustainable jobs. This is good for Austria, which will generate growth, which will be understood by every Austrian. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Today, in the discussion in the “Current Hour”, I have had the impression that Europeanisation and globalisation are often mixed together and that globalisation does not stop beyond Austria’s borders. Our companies are prosperating, their dynamic development is moving all over the world. We are in contact with all economic markets around the globe, and therefore we need to equip our businesses with appropriate framework programmes so that they can be successful. It is therefore also important that we consider a little the global situation before which we have drawn up this programme, the economic programme, this budget programme. We see that the Asian region is still developing very well, that the US is developing at a very high level economically, but that we in the European Union still have deficits in growth, that we are hanging on the top of the USA, and that we ourselves have to provide impulses in order to achieve economic growth. If you make a comparison with our most important trading partner, Germany, then you will see that there are structural problems in Germany that we – thank God! – never to be felt in Austria: 5.2 million unemployed – Hartz IV is greeted! Ladies and gentlemen! The framework conditions for Austria are not good everywhere, so that we ourselves have to be an initiative in order to bring Austria to the top position; what has already been achieved in the meantime, we are in the Eurozone with our economic and work location at #3. But this also shows that there are never so many people at work in Austria. We have to thank God, only half as high an unemployment rate as compared to the European Union. We have relatively low inflation compared to all members of the euro area. We have excellent export growth – thanks to the skilled entrepreneurs in our country. Every year, 30,000 new business start-ups, which makes hope not only for an export increase, but also makes hope for the future for good, solid, secure jobs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The anniversary year we are committed this year is also a anniversary year for five years of ÖVP/FPÖ policy in our country. At this point I can quote the “New Zurich Newspaper”, which writes: “The new history of Austria is a success story.” – Dem, ladies and gentlemen, is really nothing to add. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have to keep in mind the starting situation again and again. The initial situation in 2000 was such that we have inherited 130 billion euros from a SPÖ-dominated financial policy, that we have to pay 7 billion € annually at interest rates; of course today it is already 7.5 billion €. This is the total social expenditure in our budget. We could have saved ourselves all this if you had been careful about the future of our country in good time, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Looking back: They have made a completely wrong financial and budgetary policy in the 1980s and 1990s – Mr. Col. Stumpfully has already carried it out today. [[Abg. Silhavy: What was my colleague stupid at the time?]] On average, they have produced more than 2 percent deficit per year, while in the last five years we have never reached an average deficit of 1.1 percent. Compared to other members of the European Union – whether Germany or France – with a deficit of 3.7 percent, we are relatively good with a deficit of 1.7 percent and can still make reforms, a tax reform of €4 billion, which equally affects both workers and pensioners as well as a large part of the economy, ladies and gentlemen! You will see that our programme is a future programme, which has its hand and foot, and will bring Austria to the fore economically. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, where is your economic programme? They've been swirling around for half a year, we've been calling for it again and again and waiting for it, but there's never been anything. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where's your program?]] Then the speech was: The zero deficit must be written into the Constitution. Then we've heard from your business experts: 3 per cent of the deficit is not so bad, we can still afford it; in an important upturn in the economy, 3 per cent must be inside. We've heard all of this from you. Where is there a straight line in the economic and financial course? - It's not obvious to us. That is a zigzag course, and the only ones who are really able to bring the government ship forward is this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The FPÖ speaks of the zigzag course!]] The signals are favourable, they are on the rise, they are in the direction of hope for the economy and for the workers in our country. The tax reform with 1. This year, ladies and gentlemen, will have a positive impact, will have a positive impact on the economy, as a reduction of €3 billion per year is a motivation for greater performance of workers. [[Abg. Oils:... operates voodoo-economics!]] It is a motivation for the economy to invest more, and that creates jobs and growth again. Ladies and gentlemen! You also see in this budget programme that the economic packages I and II, growth, stability package, that the investment offensive, the investment growth premium, all these measures were important in a crucial situation to bring Austria forward economically. Our policy means less state, less taxes, more for citizens! Ladies and gentlemen! This strengthens the purchasing power of mass, which will increase growth again, and this will bring Austria forward. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It can't be a recipe for more growth, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, if you're philosophizing about the need to increase wealth taxes; whether that's the savings account tax, the basic tax or the commercial tax you want to introduce again to tax small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] This cannot be your serious situation in a situation where taxes are going down around us, the competitive situation is getting tighter and the companies are wondering where to settle, where the most favourable tax conditions are. It can't be. You are serious about looting out such an economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is unimaginable!]] I would argue that you are aware of your responsibility, even if you are in opposition, because that will also be in the newspapers, and we do not want foreign investors to read such approaches to economic policy. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Economic incompetence has a name!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't be serious about doing this! I can now read from a book by Mr. Federal Minister other than the Caspar Service. Cite one: “A better Austrian – social alternative,” in about that way. In this you seriously consider 13th and 14th. Monthly salary to be taxed! [[Abg. Scheibner: After bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For God's sake, we should discuss exactly the opposite: Why do we pay health insurance for the 13th and 14th years? If we can only be sick for 12 months a year, can we have a monthly salary?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This consideration should be made together with us, whether we do not obtain a discharge here rather than a tax. These are really incomprehensible proposals, which come from the SPÖs, which are certainly not committed to bringing Austria to the fore economically, but rather to stifling the economic situation which is now under way, and deterring foreign investors from Austria. This threatens jobs from our point of view and certainly does not ensure the necessary upturn. This Federal Government knows that it will put in place important measures included in this budget. We will also invest in infrastructure, research and development in education, because we know today that the investment of € 1 billion in infrastructure means 15 000 to 18 000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important for me to mention the Koralmbahn in this context, because it is not only a transport policy but also a labour market investment, because 40 000 jobs can be linked directly and indirectly to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser]] [[Abg. Eder: Wrong investment!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This federal government and we as government parties know that the people want the reforms, that they want to keep those things that are good and push the bad aside. We'll pick up the hot iron, forge it while they're still hot. We have brought the pension reform under the roof and subject. We have rehabilitated the health system for many years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What did you clean up? The health system? You're a dreamer!]] And we are still putting decisive reliefs and measures in the area of administrative reform. Here is a savings potential of € 2 billion annually inside. I should therefore like to remind you again and again of the fact that the members of the government are also committed to administrative reform, because if we achieve savings there, the economy and the employees in Austria will benefit positively. Then we can go down with the taxes and generate more growth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Today, Austria is one of the richest countries in the world due to a careful and far-sighted financial and budgetary policy. And we also have the obligation – I agree with Mr. Party-Chairing Gusenbauer – to ensure social tax justice. We also have the obligation in our tax system to ensure that the rust that is moving at the border to poverty does not fall. [[Abg. Eder: They're through!]] We have the obligation to make a transparent, comprehensible, simple tax system so that every Austrian, every Austrian, can fill out the form; a tax form with which you do not have to go to a tax advisor. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I ask you, Mr Matznetter: Finally, accept this target formulation! We have looked at your tax calculation method – it comes from the head of a tax advisor. Then every Austrian needs a tax advisor so that he can understand in some way what you have proposed here. [[Abg. Eder: Now all two need!]] We want a simple tax calculation, which anyone can carry out that is simple, transparent and fair. This must be the future in Austria's tax policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians rely on this stable government, on this stable government course. This budget will provide employment and employment, more income and more perspective-rich Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5109	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. 15 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5131	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the staff members in particular for the budget section of the Ministry of Finance. There is no question that the documents are getting better, the written documents, the statistics and so on, the explanations. They will also be made available more quickly – this is also to be welcomed, that was our wish for years; in particular, this concerns the so-called budget report and the volume entitled “Supplements”. I saw earlier that section head Steger and Ministerate Fleischmann are here. I ask her to pass on this thanks to her house. [[Congratulation with the Greens, the SPÖ and the ÖVP as well as the Abg. Walch.]] Compared to the quality of these written documents, the so-called budget speech by Karl-Heinz Grasser was not possible. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A distribution of the written documents would have been quite appropriate for the discussion of the content of the 2006 Federal Estimate. In the budget speech itself, there was very little mention of the 2006 federal proposal, including what I heard today from Mr Stummvoll and Mr Bucher. And where the budget was talking, that was partly wrong, partly grossly misleading. I will address a few examples later. We are already accustomed to the fact that great words – the Minister of Finance has one, as I should say, I do not mean this so negative, heavy mouthwork – do not agree with the concrete figures, the big words do not stand by the figures. However, I am not going to address the speculations for 2007, 2008 and what I know, as Mr. Stummful did, because it is clear to me that Karl-Heinz Grasser will no longer be responsible for this time and that it is not worth taking action today. [[Abg. May. Molterer: No false hopes!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would be pleased if you did not constantly argue with the general government data during the discussion on the 2006 federal proposal. I hope that doesn't sound so small, but I'm getting a little nervous. We do not speak today of the budget deficit, for example, in the Maastricht demarcation that you are constantly running, the famous 1.7% of gross domestic product. We are talking about the federal budget, and the federal deficit in the Maastricht delimitation is 2.2 per cent, according to the documents, when you add 2.3 per cent of the social security contributions. This is not irrelevant, it is about billions of euros. The federal deficit is €1.3 billion higher than the general government deficit, which is due to the surplus of the countries and municipalities. But we do not debate the excesses of the countries and communities here, because the Federation has nothing to say – our topic is the Federation and nothing else! [[Abg. Scheibner: The financial compensation already exists! Where does the country's money come from?]] On some points, the budget speech was also interesting, especially where the Minister of Finance – and this is his good right – did not follow his text. ‘Tax evasion is not a cavalier offence. It is theft at the public." – Yes, this is in the written budget speech, but the Minister of Finance did not think it right to repeat these words. [[Abg. Grossruck: That's what we heard yesterday!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: We just didn't hear it!]] That's his good right – on the cover is always: “The word is true!” So these two sentences do not apply, for he has not spoken them. Shame! Very bad, Minister of Finance Grasser! We do not want to speculate now whether that means – as it does not apply – that tax evasion is just a cavalier offence and no theft at the general level – in any doubt you only wanted to protect yourself from the demonstrationative applause of the opposition fractions. With this suspicion, of course, you were right that we would have liked to agree to these two sentences. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] But, Mr Finanzminister – I am opposed to the temptation to address tax liability, tax evasion issues, the public prosecutor's examination of this matter; the temptation is great, but I am opposed – I am telling you in principle also in the context of your refusal to repeat these two sentences: A Finance Minister of the Republic of Austria has no donations, gifts, payments – whatever – from a representative of interest! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They are neither you nor any other Minister of the Federal Government! No association made up of your closest employees has a payment to accept a gift of a representative! [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: An old hat is now!]] – This is an old hat? – This is an interesting wording by Mr von der ÖVP! [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Always the same!]] In my opinion, a Finance Minister has also taken the view that there should be no lecture fees for talks by banks supervising his home, Mr. Colleague of the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A Finance Minister, even when it comes to very small amounts, in terms of the salary of the Minister of Finance, has not to allow a ticket from a state airline, Mr. Collegue of the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] It's about these things! And the grat that the Minister of Finance has been here has been very narrow for years. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you have the need?]] And in my opinion, political corruption, Mr Molterer, does not begin only where a prosecutor sees reason to act from the point of view of criminal law, but much, much earlier. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: However, criminal law is still in the law book, or is that going after good thinking?]] Karl-Heinz Grasser has never shown the slightest understanding of this problem, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, apart from the tax issues. By the way, I advise every taxpayer who is not a minister of finance not to use this construction with the association, the donations and so on not to take the lead, even not to choose analog constructions, otherwise you are guaranteed in the tax audit by the financial office. [[New appeal to the Greens and SPÖs.]] If we are already on the tax side – because it is just a good example of incompetence and untruth – we take quotations on the tax reform, which took place on 1st October. ==References====External links== Repeating does not make this true either, namely: “This brings more purchasing power to every Austrian household.” – Minister of Finance! You know very well that some 2 million taxpayers have no or had no tax reduction because their income is so low that they did not have to pay a wage tax or income tax before. So this cannot bring more purchasing power to every Austrian household. And then it'll be really funny, because then you say, Minister of Finance Grasser: “This gives Austrian taxpayers 11 days more freedom.” – For example, I am such an Austrian taxpayer. I checked my calendar in the early morning and did not find the 11 days of freedom that the Republic or the Minister of Finance should have personally given me. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The voters will give it to you!]] Apart from that – this applies to all members of the Federal Government, but in particular to the Minister of Finance: I won't let you give me anything! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And second: Even if I forget this principle, if you already give me something, I would definitely pay for it - unlike certain members of the Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] But now on an important question for the future: The Federal Government reduces expenditure in the area of one of the most important future budgets rather than responding to the needs of the day. You understand this by the work of the future! Ladies and gentlemen! That in the compulsory school teacher budget – which primarily concerns the primary schools in Austria, the primary schools and primary schools – the expenditure is reduced by €30 million – already takes into account the 12 million plus in the financial compensation, minus €30 million – which is obviously not much compared to the total budget, but here it goes over the thumbs of around 1,000 – plus/minus 100, we say: about 1 000 – posts for compulsory school teachers and compulsory school teachers. And you do that in view of the results of the PISA study? Again: Why do I and why do the Greens – I believe, even the Social Democrats – get so upset about what is happening here in a relatively small budget area? Why do you get – in good German – “in real Zurn”? – That was not Tyrolean now, but Viennese, but it is nevertheless true. According to PISA study – which is available for reading – what was, in short, Executive Summary – you don't have to study hundreds of pages – one of the most depressing results? – That around one fifth of the 15-year-olds in Austria have insufficient reading knowledge that they cannot read meaningfully. In absolute numbers, this is about 18,000 students per year – per year! Within a few years, this share has increased from 14 percent to 20 percent of pupils – this increase is the largest increase worldwide within the PISA study. I mean, Skill You read this, or is this tragedy of 20 percent with insufficient reading ability for politicians of the government groups? – I can't believe that! – What do you believe? [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Me neither! I don't think so.]] You don't believe the PISA study You don't? You don't believe the result? – Then I don’t wonder you don’t have any consequences! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Fassleven von der ÖVP! 18,000 a year! Within five years, you have a stock of – how much is five times 18 000? - 90,000! 18,000 people a year who do not have the necessary conditions for the needs of the modern labour market! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] That's you? – That can't be true! Every euro reduction, ladies and gentlemen, in this area, especially in the field of folk schools, will later fall on our heads twice and triple and ten times in the coming years, in the area of unemployment, in the area of emergency workers, in social assistance and, of course, in the field of re-training in the attempt to get these poor people to live – it is really a tragedy! - to re-train accordingly. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] So even economically, from the follow-up costs, what is happening here is an insanity! And how was this argued by Grasser, by stupid yesterday, and I suppose, also by other members of the government groups? – The declining number of students. Well, let's go! I don't even argue that the number of students is falling. Let's assume they're even falling by 10 percent! If nothing changes in the school system, then we do not have 18 000 per year, but 10 per cent less, i.e. 16 200 per year. You're buying it? Instead of saying: Okay, we have a real problem here, we have to do something! There are also 16 000 in this lower education area, 16 000 too many here, and cannot and cannot be shortened! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We now need measures for individual promotion, for the smaller school classes, for – last but not least – stronger, better mother tongue additional education, for cross-class learning and so on. – Also in the budget speech there is a passus that says something about reading skills and language culture – in the positive sense, of course. And what happens? – Do you reduce the number of posts in public schools? So you will increase reading skills and language competence not only, but also for small people with non-German mother tongues? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] This is personal-intensive, ladies and gentlemen, it's not about the computer, and it costs money! This investment in the future, this investment in the future of our children, Mrs Brinek, should be worth it to us. That should be worth it for us, we should afford this investment. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's how it goes. You can see this if you do not take the budget speech to hand, but look at the specific data. In the interrelationship between education policy and women's policy, there is almost nothing to be found, at least I did not find it. There is no doubt that this is still going to be the case today. We finally have to make a career and children a motto instead of children and kitchens, as the basis of our political action! I don't see that in this budget. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's exactly what the women who now stand in the kitchen have heard!]] Finally, so that we don't just talk about the folk schools, to the universities. I see no increase in the budget of universities, perhaps an official of the Ministry of Finance can still inform me. I hope I'm wrong. But there is probably a passus in the budget speech of Karl-Heinz Grasser, which reads: “With the elite union according to the model of MIT” – so that we can understand it too, the explanation is in brackets – “(Massachusett’s Institute of Technology) we want to focus on structurally and thematically.” Super, Minister of Finance Grasser, I am entirely of your opinion. Just, you know what you're getting in there for? – The MIT budget – which is a super-university producing Nobel prize winners on the tape – is as large as the total budget of all Austrian universities combined. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5424	Mr Mag, Minister of Finance, has now been reported from the government bank. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5445	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps I can start with the 2006 budget again. [[Abg. Oils: Say the same thing again as yesterday!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The key figures of the budget are: It reduces the deficit, it decreases financial debt, it decreases taxes and taxes, i.e. discharge also marks the Federal budget of 2006. I can only say it's made responsible, it's a solid calculation work. We are on deficits, number five in the euro area. We are the eighth best in the European Union of the 25 Member States. And we have set very clear impulses for the year 2006 because the discharge is €1.5 billion higher than in 2005. More €1.5 billion in discharge is an important point for the upturn, an important point for more employment. We are very good at this in the European comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think I made it very clear yesterday that we are not satisfied with the achievement, but that we say we have to do more. We are trying to strengthen our efforts accordingly. We have clearly defined the objectives. We have said that we must go back to a balanced budget from this 1.7% deficit. Why do we have to? – Because we say our goal is to continue to reduce taxes and taxes accordingly in the future, because we want to relieve people because we want more self responsibility because we want more purchasing power among people, because we want the individual to have more freedom and decide what he wants to do with his money in the wallet. And we said yesterday that the biggest priority for us is to do something together in the short term – and we have invited all parties, the social partners – so to put ourselves together. Although unemployment in Austria is low in the European comparison, half as high, we have said that we are inviting a national effort to reduce unemployment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also not true that we would not focus on the 2006 budget, but, of course, 104 million more are planned for the labour market in the 2006 budget. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is liberty withdrawal!]] We invest €1.5 billion in activating and active labour market policies, and we spend € 4.9 billion on the labour market. I'm just saying it's important to us. We see the families, we see those affected, we see the concerns of the family. Our main concern is to get the unemployed back into employment today. Let's do this together! That's the invitation I'd like to express. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the priorities. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not discussing a budget for the first time. [[Abg. Oils: No, unfortunately!]] And I think one should have the seriality and see what this Federal Government has done since 2000. It is the seventh budget for which I am jointly responsible with Secretary of State Alfred Finz. You have to see where we have strengthened, where we have set priorities, where we have set priorities. Ladies and gentlemen! Research and development: Since 2000 to 2006, we have spent € 10.1 billion on research and development, which is a plus of 34 percent. Investment in road and rail: 17.7 billion €, a plus of 60 percent compared to previous governments. [[Abg. Eder: Loud extra debt!]] Education has been addressed, a plus of €1.1 billion in education, for families, because the children are the future of the country. 1.1 billion € more for the children, for the families. These are the priorities we are setting! These are good for the country, important, properly set and necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To credibility, ladies and gentlemen! You're questioning our credibility. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Broukal.]] I can remember a little! Ladies and gentlemen! Go back to the year 2000! We said we were making a zero deficit. Do you know how the first reactions were? Do you remember? – Except Alfred Gusenbauer – he's a little bit tossed up and down, he said, we write this into the Constitution, we don't do it again; he couldn't decide what he wants – most have said we never achieve that. [[Abg. Reheis: Everything gets worse!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time in 27 years we have achieved it in 2001. In 2002 we were very close. Second point: 40 per cent tax quota, ladies and gentlemen! That's what they said, never will this federal government. 40 percent, not reachable. Ladies and gentlemen! Not 2010, but in 2006 we almost reached the goal. The Greens have said that this is only possible with large social cuts, it is practically impossible to do. [[Abg. Sburny: I do!]] Professor Van der Bellen just settled. He gave an interview to the “Economic Sheet” yesterday, saying that we need to reach 40 percent, € 7 to 8 billion. Now we know that we now stand at 40.7 percent tax rate. We need to get down by 0.7 percent. When you calculate and work on it, you get to know that this is not € 7 to 8 billion, but € 1.8 billion. – Only so far as the seriousness of the debate and the corresponding figures are concerned. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] If I am with the seriosity and credibility: Professor, rather Mr. Partyobmann! Excuse me, I confused it from the argument. We had an argument yesterday. You have repeated the argument today. I just don't understand because it's not factual and not serious. You said again today that we are saving the teachers, the state teachers, the public schools, we are not doing anything for education. I told you yesterday that we should agree on a principle. We have – and you never say so – 12 000 to 13 000 students in this field. The fact that there are fewer teachers in between 12,000 and 13,000 is relatively clear, so we also spend about €30 million less. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I said that today! You don't listen!]] On the other hand, we have more than 6 000 students in the Federal Schools, in the area of higher schools. We spend €57 million more in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That means fewer students, fewer teachers, less money – more students, more teachers, more money! We should agree on this principle. Then you mentioned the PISA study, so again. I told you yesterday: The commitment of the Federal Government, by Federal Minister Gehrer downwards, including all other members of the Federal Government, is the highest possible quality of education for our students. That's our concern, that's our confession. Let's see how much money we spend! OECD statistics, comparable to all OECD member countries, all Western industrial nations. Austria spends $6,500 per student in the school sector. [[Abg. Oellingers: There are the pensions included! That's not true!]] Finland, the PISA winner, the best results at PISA, spends $4 700. Higher schools: Austria spends $8 500 per student, Finland $6 500 per student. Ladies and gentlemen! We spend around 30.40 percent more, that is, it's not particularly about the money. So we're changing the system! Let's see that we come to the best quality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you are talking about arbitrary budget creation and you argue that with the 2006 budget report, with the overview 10, where there is a fall in figures. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] And you're saying we're wrong about €550 million in corporate tax. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I certainly don't allow anything to happen: that you make my house bad, that you make my experts bad, that Put the Federal Ministry of Finance and my officials in the dirt! This is certainly not the case, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to tell you why it is a really totally unfair argument and you obviously did not even deal with the budget documents. We print about 2 500 pages on budget documents. Mr Van der Bellen has said that we are providing more documents, in all transparency and earlier than before. [[Abg. May. Molterer: In better quality!]] We've had a digit decline on 2 500 pages. That was on page 82 in the budget report. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Unfortunately on the most important!]] We've recognized this digit collapse ourselves, so you don't need it. We have settled the new page, we have already brought this new page by the Council of Ministers and decided there and delivered it to the House. So we have corrected this number crash ourselves accordingly and provided you with the right documents. If you say, Mr Gusenbauer, that a budget is arbitrary if a print error happens to us, which we ourselves put right, then you lack the facts. [[Abg. Scheibner: Unserious argumentation!]] This is polemics, it has nothing to do with budget policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If I can stay with the credibility. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Oh so, in the number crash you should make the cash crash!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Matznetter made a press conference and then said: Let's lower corporate tax to 25 percent! – The government has done it. Then they said: Let us reduce employees' income by €1.5 billion! – The government has done it. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not true!]] Social democracy voted against the discharge, voted against the tax reform, as did the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Because you didn't do it!]] Obviously, both are for tax increases, the Greens express it. That's different. That's good. Let's figure this out. We want to reduce taxes and taxes! We want to relieve! We want to increase the purchasing power of the people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You are the tax minister!]] You say that the tax reduction is not large enough, but at the same time you say that the deficit is far too high, and make proposals. We have once expected what you have proposed in recent months: 19 billion € in additional expenditure would mean the proposals of social democracy, expected over the last months or years. So that means how to finance it, you're totally sluggish. This is my impression, ladies and gentlemen, if I say so directly. I have to say the alternative: How do we do better? How do we deal with state finances? How do we get more employment? How do we reduce unemployment? What are we really doing for education? How do we create more research and development? How do we reduce taxes?, the materiality, the dispute in the matter have really remained due to us the party owners of the two opposition groups today. We are really trying to go very serious, responsiblely a way for this country. The budget data can be presented. We are the country in Europe, which in recent years has the most lowered taxes. And that is a very serious, objective course with good results for the country that are confirmed. Look This is what you're looking at: Population income: € 27 billion more, savings: 12 billion € more, 100 000 more employees – a balance sheet that speaks for us! We are waiting for your alternatives.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5770	As the next speaker, Mr Grillitsch has spoken. Your speaking time is 10 minutes, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5797	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow I'm disappointed whether this discussion is going to be today – no, wait a minute, Dr. Gusenbauer, wait a minute! – for the following reason, it is disappointing: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Sure after the Minister of Finance!]] [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] The Minister of Finance gave a truly solid, serious budget speech yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: weren't you there yesterday?]] Dr. Gusenbauer! The Budget spokespersons of the government parties boldly andbookers stretch their hands against you, and your answer is to polemise, polarize, discriminate. That's not the style. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Oh yeah!]] This is an uncertainty programme for people, and this is what people in Austria reject. I can tell you that you will experience this again the next election day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dr. Gusenbauer, hand at heart, really hand at heart: If Mr. Finanzminister Grasser had not corrected this paragraph with supplemental paper, you probably would not have even noticed the error. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does “digital collapse ” mean?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard the priority objectives. We want to secure jobs, we want to secure employment, we want to reduce debt, we want to give people safety. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You don't know what you decide again!]] Dr. Gusenbauer! We want to give people safety, we want a balanced budget over the cycle. We want to reduce the tax and tax rate to 40 percent by 2010. We want growth incentives through investment in education, research, development and infrastructure. And we know that we also face major challenges. We need answers to globalisation, to liberalisation, we need answers to the flexibility of working hours, we need safety in the social system. And we have already given answers with the tax reform, with the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Ah yes?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Eder: False!]] If you criticize the tax reform and believe that this is just a tax reform for a few industrialists and for a few tractor drivers, then, I must honestly tell you, you have not grasped the meaning and purpose of this tax reform. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Gusenbauer, this is about securing the economic location to secure jobs for people so that they can have income and invest, so that value creation remains in the region. And this is about the competitiveness of Austria's economic location. This, of course, also includes agriculture. There are also priorities for the families and for the commuters. Of course, it is not a pleasant development in Austria if, despite increased employment in the order of nearly 100 000, one has to deal with rising unemployment. No question! But I think it is also allowed to compare with Germany. [[Abg. Eder: The comparison is limping!]] How is the red-green government in Germany doing, and what are we doing? – In Germany, the unemployment rate is 12.1 percent three times as high as in Austria, which is 4.5 percent. You are right to hear that the number of unemployed aged 15 to 19 has fallen by 3.7 percent, while in Germany it has increased by 62 percent. You could make many other comparisons, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, however, as I believe, we are all called upon to do so, Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, you too, not to continue. To drive your insurance programme in Austria, but to include the offer of cooperation, because we have to resolve these issues. And this mosaic also belongs to agriculture, Dr. Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It's been well served anyway!]] Agriculture is also important for economic location assurance in Austria. We have faced major challenges through EU accession. We have managed Agenda 2000 more or less, we are in the middle of the CAP reform and we are facing WTO negotiations. There is nothing more necessary than to give our rural families security and planning and continuity in the programmes, and that is what happens to this government. We have once again secured our 3-billion-€ package, in co-financing with the federal government and country, with a national increase of €4.9 million, and look so that we can get all the funds from Brussels for our farmers so that they can also use them accordingly. We promised this to the farmers – and we kept it! It is up to you to promote rural development. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – You have nothing in your mind except job destruction, Mr Krainer, we saw yesterday! – The promotion of rural development, I believe, is an Austrian success story, where we were able to secure 10 percent of the funds from Brussels for Austria. And this also applies to the future, by 2013, for rural areas, for the Austrian farmers, because we know that these programmes, which we are making available there, such as an environmental programme or a compensation allowance for the miners, are very important for our farmers to continue to manage these farms in the social mission. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: liberty withdrawal!]] It is not only important for agriculture but also for infrastructure. There is, of course, the discussion among the net payers – and I am speaking quite openly here – which means that it would have to be spent less money so that their contributions would be reduced. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You avoid the freedom for those who have to pay it!]] The Commission's budget proposal sets out to claim a total of around 1.14 percent of the gross domestic product of the Member States, while an alliance of net payers has formed, which is strong for a limit of 1 percent of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen! This would mean that the available funds for rural development would be reduced by 37 percent, in extreme cases even by 61 percent. That means we have to be clear, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no more EU with less money! And this is the great challenge we are all facing, especially in rural families and rural areas. We need a rural area that builds on six pillars. One of them is the topic of infrastructure. Please, let's deal with it intensively! There are structural changes, as we have the opportunity to bring the world into the village with information technology. Let us also create a corresponding education provision in rural areas! Mr Finanzminister! Financial compensation: I would like to say that it was a century event to get away from the graded population key, to the task-oriented. As a result, the small communities, which have more and more tasks to perform, can also reap the benefits of doing so. Ladies and gentlemen! We also need a value discussion in Austria in relation to food. It cannot be assumed that we spend less and less on this, but always higher demands that we spend only more than 11 percent on food. It's not okay that over the last 20 years you have paid 30 percent more for meat in the supermarket, while the farmer has got 30 percent less for it. Let us also hold this discussion, ladies and gentlemen, and let us create social security! Regionality and seasonality of rural economic enterprises – traders, economic operators, farmers – do not demand competitive thinking, but increasingly demand more cooperation to be able to exist accordingly in this globalised, concentrated market. [[Abg. Silhavy: How much more do the farmers get from the budget?]] – Ms Silhavy, help You are here, because this is also about jobs for which you should also work, and this is also about the appropriate emotionalisation of our products. What we have to do, ladies and gentlemen – at the end again a comparison with Germany –: We must make available to our people in rural areas and, in particular, to rural families, investment programmes. We are here in Austria on a good path, unlike Germany. In Germany, investment in agriculture has fallen by 90 percent over the last four years. In other words, 30 000 to 40 000 jobs were created per year – every year! – destroyed because the German farmers did not invest. We in Austria invest two and a half times as much per operation. Let us create this security, this planning for our rural businesses, for rural areas! Everyone we live here, all we have longings, will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6033	Mr Matznetter was mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6055	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, especially Mr Mag. Grasser! High house! It's easy he doesn't have it, our Minister of Finance. Today alone in the press is not easy for him. Mr Dinkhauser believes that even now the “silver mother bonus” is gone. Interesting is also the statement: You have to ask yourself if he still needs grass. He's probably immediate. – So very interesting quotations of high-ranking ÖVP functionaries. But it is also difficult to deal with the budget. The bow extends from “belt tighter belts” to “deep social cuts” to“ unsafe forecasts. ” Mr. Zankel says in the “Small Newspaper” of which one cannot really say that he belongs to the hard opposition core: “The Minister of Finance is not oriented towards the economy, but rather towards elections.” So he doesn't have it easy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But he's good!]] He wasn't really defended here either. His speech yesterday, although he had saved 10 minutes, was no longer suitable for at least Mr. Khol to say: Good speech, Karl-Heinz! - That's what it called some time ago. – So everything around it a little bit less than he expected! Against this background, the Minister of Finance cannot be accused of working with a lot of self- praise, although the occasion is not too great. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But you are not really self-critical either!]] But let's go through what really is right and good to mention. First finding: The Federal Ministry of Finance has done really great work. By the way: It is not true, Mr Finanzminister, that the number on the insert on page 82 would be due to a "digital decline". It looks quite different. If you look closely at the printed edition and the insert paper, you can see that it is a completely different table – and ladies and gentlemen in the Ministry of Finance are doing a careful job. In their original calculation of corporate tax, they have rightly assumed that the income of corporate tax in the light of the fact that two thirds of the drastic reduction will not take effect until 2006, will fall from 3.6 billion to 3,250 billion. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you for it now or against it?]] But now, suddenly, there is a table as a insert sheet in which the 3.8 billion are located. That's not a digit crash, it only shows something else. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Have you read page 46?]] – No, you have another problem: What happened to you here is that the true calculation of the expected tax revenue from autumn was still contained in the printing flag and the corrections you made had to be made in the form of a insert sheet. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Incredible!]] [[Interim remarks by Federal Minister Mag. Grasser and vice chancellor Gorbach.]] If you continue your trade round behind me a little bit, you can explain a few more things to us, Minister of Finance: I come to the core question to which the tax reduction has brought something. Because we are currently on corporate tax, I would like to talk about the company side. They claim that now all Austrians have more purchasing power. That this is not the case, I think, was quite clearly presented to you on the example of the ticket to Gloggnitz by Federal Party President Dr. Gusenbauer. Highly interested is the latest corporate tax statistics published by the Central Statistical Office. In fact, on page 34 there is a list of those who have paid 78.3 percent of the corporation tax so far. That was exactly 1 584 large companies, and they get this 80 percent that you want to sell as a strengthening of the Austrian economy! That's exactly 1,500 of the best-earning establishments in the country. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: How many jobs are these?]] And the rest, 57 500 cases with a minimum corporate tax, so-called zero cases, get nothing from you. No, you will also receive the last investment benefit, the investment additional premium. This is tax policy brand ÖVP and Beiwagerl FPÖ and is nothing but: We promote large international groups instead of the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's going to be Of course, you are also accountable for this economy, because you have created another possibility: group taxation. It is interesting, for example, what Karl Bruckner says about it. This is justament of the tax expert who invited ÖVP to hear about the tax reform last year. He says today: Group taxation will cost the Fiscus even more. Why? – Because you have taxed the corporate tax on the tax of international corporations because the loss groups, losses companies, can settle, only have to attach below – and can already put the Austrian corporate tax on zero. It will cost a lot, the gaps will hardly be closed, and what you present here today in the 2006 budget is therefore macularity. There will not be 200 million surplus revenues, but there will be significantly larger holes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now we come to the main point – and I would like to address this point because the over 317,000 unemployed are in one of the most unpleasant situations in the country, but not only these but all Austrians find today a much worse job situation than they did five years ago. And they not only find them worse because the world economy has gone down, but not only, and we like to admit that there are job problems throughout Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] However, we have come to know new things: 47 000 young people without work, for example. We did not know a youth unemployment in this country before the government of Schüssel! This is something new, and that is why the wrong path is being taken in this country. We have managed in the past to keep the scourges of youth unemployment away from this country. Under your leadership it is now that far for the first time. If you allow me the example Germany [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, permanent!]] The Federal Republic of Germany has a disastrous job situation with 5 million unemployed today. Five years ago, it was just over 4 million, 4.2 million in January 2000. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Schröder managed the whole country!]] Just look at the rise before you intercede, Mrs. Colleague. The rise – 317,000 plus those in training, 57 000, as was the case in January – is much sharper for us than in Germany. They should therefore not resort to Germany, but to the interests of Mr Bartenstein, Mr Schüssel and Mr Grasser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But let's get to the question of how to make policy better. The Federal Minister invites a joint effort to combat the problem. Only: It's very late for that. We were ready for every cooperation, we wanted to cooperate in the tax reform – it would have been much better then – but you never accepted our proposals. There is a way to make it better: Make room for new elections, then there is a better budget and a better policy in the country, one with which incomes rise and not fall. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you let me even the call: The Court of Auditors presented in its 2003 income report the median income for 2003. If you compare this with the year 2000, you will reach the self-employed, if you calculate inflation, at 15 001 € per year in 2000 to a decrease to 14 608 € – net expected! That is, at the time when the responsibility for financial policy lay with Mr Schüssel, Mr Bartenstein and Mr Grasser, we have falling real income, and this feels people, because they have less money, the economy feels it, because the purchasing power is not there, it feels the whole country, because growth is only moving more within the framework of the average of the Union rather than above. [[Abg. Silhavy: Of course the stupid does not notice that!]] To sum up, then, a policy that could be made much better, rather than the responsibilities of the EIA! But perhaps one day we will hear from Mr Finz, the Secretary of State, who may then be a Member in a few years' time and say: You know, that was a very bad policy in these years 2000 to 2005. Unfortunately, we could not make a successful policy at the time, the debt has grown, unemployment has increased, but now we want to make it better! . The same is true, as Mr Stumbling pointed out about the time of government between 1988 and 1991. Thank you for your admission: The ÖVP can't do it so well!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6262	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6283	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Now, Mr Matzenetter, you have finally been spoken of as a clear text. [[Abg. May. Trunk: PISA!]] - Not PISA! - Yes, from me, Matznetter, all right! [[Abg. May. Trunk: Ma tzn etter!]] The content that he brought here is important. Matznetter said that the only concept is the only alternative: Go, let's go back to the government! We finally want to get back to power, and then we'll think about what we can do. Mr Matznetter! We would have hoped that you would now put your alternatives on the table and present us here. But nothing came. It is no wonder, however, that nothing is coming, because you have nothing to do with your old policy of tax increases and the increase in deficit. And then you have a lot to do to re-cash these concepts, as was the case with your economic programme. You already say goodbye to your economic programme. You haven't presented anything here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You needed three calls until your spin doctors were able to tell you that it was not really good to be in the opposition and to keep talking about tax increases as the only economic policy concept. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] – Go, please, maybe you can tell my colleague Matznetter who is aging back there. Unfortunately, it is: We are waiting all the time for your constructive approaches, and there is nothing coming! I can tell you what a member of the opposition told me who asked me not to mention his name. After Mr Gusenbauer really compared income from income tax with the amounts in real terms, I asked this member of the opposition: What do you say as an expert? – He looked at me and said: I didn't listen. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This may also be a way of responding to the opposition proposals and programmes, ladies and gentlemen. However, it is not a sign that your policy, your social democratic economic and tax policy could only be better in any way than those policies implemented by FPÖ and ÖVP for Austria since 2000, namely far-sighted, clear, clear and comprehensible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you say that a savings package threatens after the next election, then this is also borne by the hope that the SPÖ will be back in the government after 2006 because then, and only then, is a savings package threatened because in savings packages you have been world champions. But you have not bound savings packages to make any structural changes, to finance to make forward-looking policies, no, but at best to finance election sugars. The comparisons you are always afraid of, Mr Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are on the table. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are constantly under the table!]] Mr Matznetter here speaks of what a Member of this House might say sometime. As a Member of Parliament, you have had the problem for five years that you have always had to defend something here, which you cannot defend, namely your bad economic and financial policy in the years up to 2000. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have the comparison with 1998: there was a record economy growth of 4 percent in 1998! And what did you do about it? – A record deficit of 2.3 per cent, a record rate of over 44 per cent and a similar level of unemployment, as we now have at the same time much worse economic data. What, on the other hand, are we doing? – Economic growth of 2.3 percent is forecast for 2006. Hopefully the economy will start again! The situation is now as a whole economic but at least much worse than at your time. However, the deficit does not reach the record level of 2.3 per cent as at your time, but is 1.7 per cent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And now it comes, and this is important for the people, because this is about the tax and tax ratio: At that time, the population had to finance their wrong policy with a record rate of over 44 percent, we reduced it to 40 percent, the money goes back to the taxpayers! But they were – and are – unfortunately against this discharge offensive! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, if you say that the people do not feel this tax reduction, that is nothing, then I really want to ask the opposite question. The second stage of the tax reform entered into force in January of this year. [[Abg. May. Trunk: And the electricity prices!]] – Thank you very much, Mrs Colleague! You are from Carinthia, but look at the electricity price development in the socialist-led Vienna! There they really did it: Although there would have to be a reduction, there was an increase in electricity prices and gas prices at the expense of the smallest. However, one has changed the calculation mode so that it doesn't seem that way. That is your way of burdening the people, Mrs Trunk! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. May. Trunk.]] We have relieved the population: 4 billion € discharge for the economy and for the taxpayer! The company tax reduction you have previously requested – and you are opposed to it now – was a golden measure to secure Austria's location after the EU enlargement, ladies and gentlemen. Of course you can say: 4 billion are still too few, and in fact this amount may be small compared to what we have to pay for your debts in interest, namely 7,5 billion euros per year. Nevertheless, this is the greatest tax relief in the history of the Second Republic, despite the debt you left us. I repeat: €7.5 billion in interest per year alone must be paid for the debt from the era of social democratic fiscal and economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. So you see what we've done to your inheritance: We have made a reorganisation and have nevertheless created spaces to bring reliefs and also to put in place future-oriented structural measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] – You’re always against it! They were against the pension reform, although Dallinger already said 30 years ago that we need to create a harmonised pension system for future generations. We did it – you were against it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] On the health system, ladies and gentlemen: We have said that we must go in alternative forms, maintain health and take preventive measures instead of further financing a deficient health system. They have, as an alternative, also supported by your countries, but have created further measures to increase contributions. We have long guaranteed the health system in this high quality, and it was a free morale that these burdens could also be prevented. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have supported families financially, but also structurally, in the pension system and with the childcare allowance. They were against it. This is your alternative to our measures: Be against it, be against it, be against it. However, this is a little bit, even for an opposition party, and far too little for a party that at some point wants to take over government responsibility! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance said it clearly and clearly yesterday: All these measures have been good, right and important. But that is still too little, because Austria and Europe themselves are in danger of falling into disrepute internationally. We are very good in Europe, but Europe is not as good as it was a few years ago. We are at risk that other spaces, especially in Asia, are in our position. That is why we need to make the economic location of Austria and the location of Europe even more attractive to the taxpayer and to the economy with further relief plans! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] Mr President, I should like to thank We need to increase the quality criteria. We also need to invest more in education than before. There should no longer be an ideological school in the future, so we should, as the first measure, abolish the two-thirds majority in this area. An initiative, as the vice chancellor has done, is set in the direction of research and development and high technology. – We should find ourselves there, ladies and gentlemen! You should really Your Njet, give up your No Policy and join us in this forward-looking policy. But, unfortunately, we hear nothing from you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now, a criticism by me – unfortunately almost usual – and also on the budget speech, Mr. Finanzminister, a little bit about security policy: They say the abbreviations for our young people in the army and civil service are the safeguards in the security field for the future. – Thank God I know that this is not the case, because with the abbreviations put in the room, we will not improve security. Rather, it is about responding in the field of internal and external security to the new dangers and threats and to increasing crime with the appropriate measures. Staff savings can be made where the administration is concerned, but not where the security of the population in Austria is concerned. In this respect, clear priorities should be set, and we will ensure that this one sentence does not remain the Federal Government's policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6480	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6502	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the budget speech on the one hand and the budget on the other, then there is a great need to connect the whole thing: But we want to try! First of all, to the budget speech. From my point of view, this is characterized by four things: The advertising statements have been left out this time – and thus it has already become relatively thin anyway – a quote by Sir Karl Popper, a headline and a significant omission. That was the most striking thing in this budget speech. To the philosopher Popper: I don't think you just have to try Popper to know that what we're doing now has an impact on the future! But obviously you have saved this into your NLP program in such a way that only more than one sentence is really a sentence when at least once “future” occurs in it. We have certainly learned this philosophical knowledge. Other speakers have then joined in saying “future” five times, as short as possible, and nothing else! That's not how it's going to work! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't understand Popper!]] The only question that really has substance is in the title, but then in the speech no longer, and not at all in the budget. The title reads as follows: “Creating work, winning the future”. – The term “future” again! That's what's going to be going on! But first of all, for the first time. What the criminal justice and the prosecutors do is one thing. We discussed last night about the possibility of looking at this. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It is about the independence of justice, Mr. Collegue!]] But that doesn't change the process that we have to face once again: The process is that in the Republic of Austria, the Industrial Association holds a Finance Minister, and whether a Association is elected as an interim structure. - That's the point! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] What interest is there in the obligation to pay a donation tax if the Minister of Finance of that Republic is to be given money from the representation of interest, the industrial association? And there is little help when he points out that it is common practice in Austria that the parties are also served. [[Abg. Dr Fekter: Take note of an OLG decision, Mr Kogler!]] – Calls You don't have that much in between, go inside! In fact, I think it is a problem that the Industrial Union, without having to include it in the relevant statistics of the “Wiener Zeitung”, regularly transfers money to your party without it becoming somehow transparent. This must be changed quickly! It is possible that in the dimension of the ministers of finance, there is only one shack against it. Nevertheless, the problem remains, and this should be addressed! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can only remember the anticorruption brochure. Publisher is not just State Secretary Finz – no! – but also Karl-Heinz Grasser. “Of course, little gifts should make a stupid one,” it says literally. [[Abg. Eder: Look here!]] What's a little gift with you? – Reply You can do this on occasion! Now to the budget, to the figures: I must say, Minister of Finance, that your use of statistics, which you keep trying to justify your line – if it should be recognizable – is of a very, very subjective nature. I would like it once in this way and To be careful, start with a few examples and from behind: You are now constantly talking about any management surveys. These are not studies according to which Austria would be very far ahead according to the quality of life indicator or other criteria. I have to tell you: So far, you have always quoted the World Economic Forum. – That’s not our club, but rather yours, but with them we are persistent in the competition indicators in place 17, which, on the other hand, is much shocked Germany persistently but still in place 13. The 13 in this case is a luck against Austria. This is also subjective or not objective: But let us stop with these miserable allocations, which are always being made here, and let us confine ourselves to a few half-available and comparable figures! It is also not possible for me to understand these hems, which are constantly spread out here by the ÖVP side when it comes to the Federal Republic of Germany. I say something to you – and this is banal, and people will understand it: Where is Austria today, would we not have had to merge economically with Slovakia for too long? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I apologize for this politically self-evident expression, but I repeat my question: Where are we? That is the question of comparison! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They obviously don't understand what a problem this is for Austria when it goes like that! However, there are even greater problems, including in the conservatively governed countries. You might want to take note of that! France and Italy have at least such problems as Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I don't know what to do. Some of us want to take care of our budget comparisons once, because we have enough to look at them! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I should like to continue with these self-evident comparisons or the world of figures, which are also suitable for becoming a fictional one if you follow Mr Grasser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] Sometimes you feel like he's just dressed up as a finance minister, he's no one at all, otherwise he couldn't happen to him: Balanced budget over the economic cycle – is not our topic! [[Abg. May. Molterer: A topic has a goal! There's a difference!]] They've put millions in and thrown out tax money to announce that. Economic cycle? – Once the zero deficit is spoken of, then there are permanent deficits, then there is a zero deficit – perhaps with or without a savings package – again, and finally, over the entire stage over these seven years, we have piled up 7% of GDP in deficit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] This is no longer expressible in billions in order to make it comprehensible. So what you're saying is not at all right! You do not even keep the promises you make in your own, self-willing economic world! If, at the beginning and at the end, there is a zero deficit and a constant deficit, where is there balance over the cycle? Explain Please have your cycle definition! – But, hopefully, the cycle won’t last so long that you are still Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Republic would have deserved better. The tax and tax rate. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's just not true!]] This is alleged to be so important with 40 percent. I'm just drawing your attention to the fact that you're now talking that it's 40,7 suddenly. But you know exactly – or at least you should know – that in the previous year or the previous year we had a statistical adjustment that accounts for about 1 percent. – staples Stop it, do as you believe! But I'm confused. You do not ask Members to go any further than those on the conservative side are obviously already! [[Abg. Grill: Who is confused?]] Next point, the OECD statistics you mentioned in connection with the teachers: We have already told you a few times, there are the pensions there... – I claim that those who make the loudest calls are still most confused, and I stay there too! Thank you. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr. Collegue! Who's confused?]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] 30 percent of the pension share is mentioned in this OECD study. Education spokesperson Brosz, who will still speak today, will explain this to you more precisely. It's just one more proof of how you're dealing with statistics. That's no privilege of you, that's true, but in this way, of course, it fits perfectly with your other ways of dealing with such things! Let us briefly address the announced priorities. – In education, it obviously becomes less and no more, and the same applies to universities. However, there was no attempt at rebutting! Professor Van der Bellen has explained all this clearly. They have left ten minutes without even wanting to disprove that in the approach. The Investment – Tag Future, Now It Comes Again! – go back, even with the dispensed! This is reflected in your own tables! Do not always boast of your employees – we do – but read the tables and the statistics they give you, because these compositions are probably even more correct than those you're looking at here. [[Abg. Oils: Sure!]] You could at least take that with you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] It was just a tragic meeting yesterday: They come here and announce in a headline: ‘Fighting unemployment or winning the future’. According to an APA report at the same time, the unemployment rate has never been as high as now. – You should no longer ride the foglight through the country in this respect! Next item – discharge for all: From my point of view, you can actually be outraged. If we calculate together what has been in place since 2000, in terms of loads and discharges, then we will find that the loads account for 1 million more than the discharges. And the tragedy is that the loads are completely different. The pensioners and the workers are very much affected. Under the rule and including tax reform, a burden of €2.6 billion will remain in your five years or how many of them will still be. This is a net burden. But who will be deprived? – The business side, and there again the big ones, as we know! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Live the class struggle!]] You obviously don't want to disprove that, because you can't disprove it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the end, stay a numbering of which you then say: There's a note slipped in there, numbers fall. – I say to you: It's not a random number crash! You have made some political guidelines on these figures, and the budget is unsustainable in this way! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We should also decide on this as every serious country in autumn and not hold a budget debate in spring without need. This should happen in autumn if we have corresponding economic forecasts and do not have to wait for your miracles.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6768	Mr Gorbach has been mentioned from the government bank. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6789	Mr President. Estimated government colleagues! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are discussing the second part of the 2005/2006 double budget, and the Federal Government is holding to its previous course. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this course is to lay down, on the one hand, a consolidated budget, the end of the debt policy pursued by governments before the year 2000. This debt policy before 2000 has also led to debt. Mr Kogler! They counted together and from 2000 onwards spoke of difficult circumstances. I look back a little further, namely the debt policy that has caused a debt that we not only sleep on today, but are reminded of the still future generations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Mr. Cap! By the way, it was SPÖ Finance Minister who ultimately made and caused debt of 154 billion euros on the back of the young people. At some point – and you know that too – debt must also be settled, and annual interest on these debts will be the current activity of the responsible federal government and thus the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] It has already been said: The taxpayers alone have to pay € 7.5 billion annually for the refund of interest. Ladies and gentlemen! This is €7.5 billion that we are missing today when it comes to making even more investment to boost the economy in order to secure jobs in order to secure the social network. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Every company has debt!]] This €7.5 billion is missing today when it comes to burdening the population even more from the tax burden that was built up under previous social democratic governments. And this €7.5 billion is also lacking today in order to ensure the best possible social security. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore say clearly and clearly no to this debt policy, as we were used to before 2000. Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser has presented a budget in line with the principles of economy and economy, but at the same time also includes measures to boost the economy in order to relieve entrepreneurs in order to give the population more purchasing power and thus also to secure jobs. Austria has been able to reduce the taxes most significantly by means of tax reform in 2005/2006 compared with other EU countries, and that in the difficult circumstances mentioned above. Ladies and gentlemen! With this stability policy, with this good forward-looking tax policy from the Nimbus of a high tax country, we have succeeded in becoming an attractive economic location, even with the most attractive economic location in Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Appreciate Members of the opposition! You can call here as you want This policy causes us to also get headlines in international media such as in the “New Zurich Newspaper”: [[Abg. May. Gaßner: No one said anything!]] [[Abg. Oils: We didn't call anything!]] ‘The Wende has done well for the site’, or in the ‘South German newspaper’: ‘Austria success model’, or in the ‘Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung’: “Is Austria the better Germany?” Such headlines do not come from about. And if you know that the two stages of the tax reform also mean 3 billion in redundancies, it becomes clear that this is the biggest tax reform Austria has ever experienced. In view of the offensive measures of this government, the purchasing power for families, businesses and every single taxpayer in Austria will also be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen! This will benefit people. That strengthens the economy. It saves jobs. This strengthens Austria's location. – We should be proud of it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister of Research, I am proud that there has also been a clear growth path for research and development at this time of the stability course. [[Abg. Oillingers: You are proud of yourself!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why do you have your hand in your pocket?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Can you do something else besides speaking bubbles?]] It has already been mentioned today: We spend more than ever on this area. And it has already been mentioned today that for research and development, we have in turn planned an offensive programme of €220 million in this budget to be discussed today. This is €20 million more than in the 2005 budget estimate. That's plus 10 percent in a very important area. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that with 2.27 percent of the research rate, we have not only the highest quota in Austria at all, but also that we are for the first time significantly above the European average. That means that we are also on our way to the European Summit in this important future area. Ladies and gentlemen! And if investments in infrastructure are as high as never before, this is not only a safeguard towards jobs in the construction industry, then these investments not only bring general upswing, no, then this is also a location competitive advantage at a globalized time that can be very decisive. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I could still talk about increasing the federal care allowance, I could mention many more positive measures, but do not do so for time-term reasons. Finally, I would like to stress that this good policy will be adhered to: balanced budget by 2008, unemployment rate at that time reduced to 4 percent, 40 percent tax rate only until 2006. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn repeatedly gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Heinzl: And bye!]] So we're all on the right path, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6961	Mr Neugebauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6983	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: “Dear viewers”!]] Dear colleagues from the Federal Ministry – welcome and also thank you for the very qualified work in preparing the documents! Many have already joined this thanks. This is against the accusation to the Minister of Finance that he would have cheated. This is a serious accusation, but in its naivety it is almost hearty. Mr Finanzminister, now give the scam! I'd like to know which neighbors you wrote off. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Italians can't be because you wouldn't have trusted yourself with these numbers. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] The Germans can't be either. But here I am with Mr Kogler: This is only partially comparable. Those who have to perform a reunification have different framework conditions. But with Hartz IV, the Germans drive unabated into the wall. So there, too, you can't have written off. I therefore do not know whether the accusation of shyness is really to be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen! The largest tax reform of the Second Republic, with a relief of workers and security of locations, together with a stable guarantee of family benefits, while at the same time reducing the deficit, reducing the financial debt and also bringing the tax rate against 40 – the others can look at us and shudder and look over our shoulders, for this is exemplary in Europe. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Which employee?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes, yes, yes!]] For us the compatibility of family and work is important, and I think that a sentence should be said about what has been clarified at the social partners level last week. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Marizzi and Dr Cap.]] – Thank you for your cooperation, but I can only register one voice! It was stressed that working time flexibility is not just one of the social partners, and that, of course, we are only asking ourselves this question offensively if the workers have some of it. And here I agree with Gusenbauer: It makes little sense to go to the basement with a view to strengthening the mass purchasing power overtime supplements or other things. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a matter to be dealt with: Where there is a high degree of overtime, we have to ensure that this is changed into appropriate jobs! [[As a result of this, the European Parliament will be able to give its opinion on the proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not like to talk about absenteeism, but I still have to say it because it has made me a little concerned that a university professor, a professor of the high school, who has committed himself to science in his profession, is here and thinks that budgets of the countries and communities have nothing to do with our debate today. I have to note that the claim of science is obvious for the policy, in which one case, Professor Van der Bellen is no longer given. It passed him that there was an inner Austrian Stability Pact from last autumn, entry 1. ==References== Van der Bellen has the obvious – to say sleep would be disrespectful. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We discussed it anyway in autumn! You slept this!]] There are countries and states – and there are well known representatives from all parties also in national governments – that there should be a balanced general government budget in 2008. Mr Finanzminister! I would like to ask you urgently – and I am referring to a passage that you have referred to because the action of the Federal Government seems to me important in itself: Financial, customs, also with regard to KIAB and the like, in conjunction with the Chamber of Commerce, with social security funds, to intensify the fight against undeclared work. There must be a positive signal for honest economic operators, and there must be a clear signal against black entrepreneurs also from politics! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I referred to Mr Matznetter's speech – compared to the speech of the party president – that he was actually part of the SPÖ's "iron ration" in questions of the budget. After the speech, I note that it is obvious that iron rationalization should only be used in the extreme emergency. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the medium term, Mr Kogler has already mentioned this, they have their faults. And there are discussions outside the public about how one can deal with weighing advantages and disadvantages. The uncertainties of a budget in the perspective of oil price, exchange rate euro, development in the neighborhood are known. But I would like to conclude by saying: I believe that if we hold together that we have too high labour costs, and if we hold together that we want to secure the high standard of social systems and that means consensus, then we must also take the next step towards broadening the funding base. Ladies and gentlemen! I am looking forward to a qualified debate. However, with some contributions I had the impression – and I do not want to support the opposition, which I once heard in another Parliament – that: The opposition is acting like a goat that only meddles all day. So you can't expect them to give good milk either.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7119	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7141	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neugebauer! The fact is that polemics is of course also a possibility to act from this pult. I just think it's the end of the act, not the words. And your behavior in pension reform has shown your actions. There I would not draw comparisons with “goats ” and“ charms. ” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We heard yesterday the budget speech of the Federal Minister. It was essentially a sequence of plattites. In today’s “standard” – perhaps leave She's referring to public opinion – it says: “The promised will to design... is limited to the expansion of one’s own power. The visions... are limited only to the next election and the preservation of power. And it is no longer true of the spoken word. But the broken one." [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you also have an opinion?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What do you talk about when no paper comes out?]] That's it, ladies and gentlemen! So were yesterday's speeches and, in part, today's debates. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been announced to us here the greatest tax reform of all time. You have dedicated your own reforms, and you have said that 11 days will have to work less for the state in the future. Professor Van der Bellen has already told you what it has in itself with the 11 days of freedom: They do not exist for the working people in this state. The fact is that the people who earn their bread through work and through work contribute to the added value and prosperity of this country, through their tax reform, do not even get back the money that you have taken away from them through tax progression and through the increase in fees. And that's a shame, you have to say that honestly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The profitmakers in Austria are the companies with high profits and those companies that have deficient foreign subsidiaries and foreign companies. Mr Neugebauer, the point is how people in this country are doing, and most people in that country can afford less black and blue after five years than ever. Most people are subjectively worse off than before, and that is something that this Federal Government has to judge, and that is not a good assessment, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: Subjective!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To your tax reform. – Even if you do not believe it, Mr President Dinkhauser – he will probably be known in the ranks of the ÖVP, since he is one of your officials, one of the higher officials – says about tax reform: They're pocket-player tricks. They know very well – the people – that what they get into the pocket on the right in tax reliefs is brought out of the left pocket by charges, fees and self-holding by Grasser. So the assessment of an ÖVP official, ladies and gentlemen. That should make you think! On the other hand, it is always said – you said it yesterday and repeated today – that we need a national effort to combat unemployment. Yeah, what are you doing about it? First, you didn't want a labour market summit, but then you gave up the pressure. Then who was at the labour market summit? Were you there, Minister Gorbach? - No, you weren't there. Was the Minister of Education present? - She wasn't there either. Were you there, Minister Grasser? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: No, because we have a super-economy minister! We have a great Minister of Economics!]] Does infrastructure have nothing to do with labour market policy? Does it have money to do nothing about labour market policy? Does education have nothing to do with labour market policy? Yes, what kind of limited thinking do you have in this Federal Government? This is not worthy of Austria and yours. [[The speaker has the last sentences towards Federal Minister Mag. Grasser, who turned away from the speaker's desk, spoke so that their remarks in plenary were not heard well.]] [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman:Save to us!]] [[Abg. Grill: You have to talk to us! You can't understand!]] Mr Grillitsch, that you don't understand anything except farmers, that's clear to me. It is a problem that the Federal Government is sitting back there. She should sit on the side, that would be better from the order. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But probably the members of the government feel more secure in the back because you can't read the mimics and gestures when you're standing at the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Neudeck: If I tell you what I think I get an order call!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come to one more point because you are so happy to put the word ‘future’ in your mouth: Apprentices. They have introduced the apprenticeship premium and announced to all of us here, so that the apprenticeship problem will be solved in Austria! And what do you read in the budget speech? – With this apprenticeship premium, it has been possible to reduce the additional wage costs for apprentices for businesses. – Well, that’s what we told you before! But there are no more apprentices, on the contrary: the apprenticeship gap grows from year to year. What are you doing so that apprentices can find an apprenticeship? – You don’t do anything, and that’s the problem! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: 1 800 in public service!]] Federal Minister! Straight You should not open your mouth here because you said in the written answer to the question that the zero deficit is worth more than teaching in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you talking about?! Take it back, this way!]] [[Further calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] It's a scandal when an Austrian Federal Minister says something like that! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] Calls You don't always get in the back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want to ban our mouth?]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] First, “put everything down” and then forgive something again – that’s your method. But this is the wrong policy, and this policy will suffer a detour. I'll tell you today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7369	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7420	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to address my previous speaker very briefly. Mrs Silhavy, I was hoping that once again I would take into account the many requests made by the opposition party to make a constructive contribution. [[Abg. Silhavy: Vote with our requests!]] We have our debates in the coming days to lead our negotiations. It would be appropriate, after you say yes, to know better than the Federal Government to make your proposals in good time. That's why I'd ask you. I was bitterly disappointed to have to realize that you have nothing but empty speech bubbles streamed into the room from the speaker's mouth. That's the contribution you've delivered! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Do you know what happens to the proposals? - You're being postponed!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! When considering a draft budget, it is obvious that comparisons should be made, i.e. a comparison of indicators over a certain period of time, i.e. a development. This comparison is true of me, we are very, very positive. It is the conclusion that we are on the right track with our budgetary policy. A second comparison is to compare the indicators of Austria with the indicators of the euro area. This comparison, ladies and gentlemen, is also a positive one, even if we make a comparison with our main trading partners, Germany and Italy. The SPÖ colleagues do not need to be afraid: I will not repeat the comparison with the Federal Republic of Germany and the red-green government, which could, of course, be very useful for this presentation. It's already been shown. Finally, we can also consider a comparison between the Austrian key data, the Austrian characteristics and those of Switzerland, also over a certain period of time to show this development. This, too, ultimately leads us to a very, very positive result. The conclusion is as follows: In Austria we are fine, in Austria we are excellent! You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're on an island of the lucky. The fact is: We are really fine, and I would like to thank someone at this point, namely the economy of our country. It is the entrepreneurs and the dedicated employees in our companies who ultimately make this success possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Policy provides framework conditions. It creates the environment so to speak, in order to enable this positive development. It is policy that, through these framework conditions, can strengthen a positive development or, as it was in the period before 2000, inhibits or even prevents positive development. And politics, ladies and gentlemen, can do something: It can influence the mood, give a positive mood. And, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the qualitative difference between the opposition and the federal government, between the government coalition and the opposition parties can also be shown. While the opposition parties constantly doubt figures – I expressly stress that the questioning of figures is quite appropriate –, sadden, insecure, we have it a little easier as a government coalition. [[Abg. Oils: Yes! There we are, however, glad!]] [[Call: There you have to even...]] [[Abg. Sburny: More money for propaganda!]] We can point to the successes of the last four years, on the basis of the facts, and hence all those who claim to be the opposite punish lies, ladies and gentlemen. This government can make policy and shape the future! This budget has once again been approved: This federal government is making the future positive. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7519	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7541	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofmann: the figures! . I am now simply taking figures that have already been mentioned today, namely by Mr Mitterlehner, who is not present at the moment, but I am still doing so to show how you are dealing with numbers from the government parties, which you yourself have seen here at the speaker's desk. World Competitiveness Report: Mr Mitterlehner said that Austria had risen from place 14 to place 13. - Super results! – Yes, in a long time, but last year from 14 to 13. For comparison of competitiveness: [[Call the ÖVP: He said of 24!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] When you read the whole report – I know that this is often not happening; we have this debate again and again – you can see that puncto macroeconomic performance Austria has fallen from place 15 to 21! [[Call the Greens and the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] This is due, for example, to Austria's IT location quality – knowledge-based economy and so on; You know, IT – in the last two years, therefore clearly under blue-black or black-blue, has crashed from 9th place to 21st place! [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Have you read the “manager magazine”?]] These are the numbers that you use completely meaningfully and you have to make it clear sometime! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Col. Neugebauer thought of us as “netting” animal comparisons. I think that – let us say so – is a limit value and will serve me a similar limit value, in terms of what the government is currently doing: That's like the elephant in the porcelain shop! – What you are destroying with your way of doing politics, with this speech-blow and advertising-logan policy, will have a pretty negative effect in the next few years, I think. This was also the problem with Minister Grasser's budget speech: These general floscles say nothing at all about reality – neither about the reality of the budget, which is your own figures, nor about the reality of the Austrian population – and above all, it has something to do with it. The Minister for Finance said yesterday: “Our vision of Austria is prosperity and justice for all.” – I can tell you that’s exactly what you’re not doing right now! In addition, I find it somewhat strange when you repeatedly cause this to break out, as soon as someone points out that we have a great gap within Austrian society in several areas, on several levels. I don't know what to laugh and criticize when you find that out. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who's laughing?]] – You should have followed today’s debate, we have had it a few times. We are among the richest countries, that is right, but we are also among those countries in which the gap between poor and rich, between men and women, now also between small and large companies, is rapidly growing – and you can put that on your flags! I don't know if you should be proud of it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the poor and rich, it has already been addressed today: The wealth is growing, the income is falling. These are clearly understandable figures that we received a few weeks ago in the poverty report. The sheer in the incomes of women and men is split: Women in Austria still earn an average of one-third less than men – and in this the aspects of part-time employment and precarious employment are still not taken into account; they still lead to an additional division of salaries. The shears between those who have work, and those who have no one, disperse. Among young people between 20 and 24 years of age who have completed training, 16 900 do not have work. I don't know. You don't care? I find no indication in your budget that you want to do something about it, no indication that these shears are to be closed. Their tax reform continues to favour the big companies – and that is what really alienates me! Since you always claim that the opposition has no proposals, the following once only two small ones – perhaps we will spare ourselves this kind of Hickhack –: The Greens have long ago presented a proposal for an environmental and social tax reform which reduces labour costs – what Mr Neugebauer has mentioned – which you and your group have apparently not been able to introduce in the last tax reform: there is no mention of reducing labour costs! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: And at the same time you dramatically increase the mineral oil tax!]] Then put yourself here and ask for it. You could just do it. We want this for a long time and have put it in a clear concept. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] A second of our concepts relates to the micro-enterprises, we have also presented a package here. It would be nice to talk about it seriously once. But if you close your eyes and don't even want to see the problem, a discussion about it will be difficult. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7672	Mr Dr. Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7704	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr Matznetter, you have disappointed me today, really disappointed me! [[Call to the SPÖ: Dear Members!]] I would have believed that the budget expert of the major opposition party was finally able to find out how to make a real budget, so not to have a deficit and yet to spend more in all areas – for that is how your policy is: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Unlike your budget!]] For everything, you demand more expenditure, and then you criticize our deficit. How do you do it differently? Please tell me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Mr. Finz, tell us how to issue a person's license!]] What hurts me, of course, is that as a budget expert you don't even read our beautiful documents. Why don't we take the wrong print? They have criticized the fact that a few revenues have been added “to the back. ” [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That was wrong! Yes!]] If you had looked at the part of the text, page 46, you would have seen that there is the tax table completely correct, only at the back of the attachments it was wrong. So nothing has finally been dropped, but it was the right thing from the very beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Right wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the 2006 budget presented yesterday, we prove the following: Firstly, the principle of stable finances continues to apply – a reduction in the budget deficit compared with 2005 to the zero deficit in 2008. Secondly, the course of discharge and so on, and this is very important, the safeguarding of our economic location vis-à-vis international competition continues. Thirdly, the focus will continue to be on “Investment into the future”, R & D. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Oye! He's already deleted education!]] With a general government downturn of 1.7 percent, we have a deficit that socialist finance ministers could only dream of! What has been the deficit of Social Democratic Finance Ministers for many years? – Over 3 percent, almost double! It is only since 2000 that we have a deficit which is about 1.1 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The last “socialist finance minister” was the Hannes Androsch!]] Let's continue by comparing: How high was the volume of tax reforms among Social Democratic Finance Ministers? How high? – Between 800 million and 1.1 billion €! If we move three times now, then we are right to say that this is the biggest tax reform of all time. However, Mr Gusenbauer claims that this biggest tax reform does not even cover the cold progression. But I would like to know what the other tax reforms of Lacina or Edlinger have covered! Nothing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... more charge increases! That's how we can expect!]] Starting Edlinger: Under Edlinger, the tax rate was 43.7%. The comparison makes us sure: Under Minister of Finance Grasser, the tax rate is 40.7 percent in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: For McDonald's, where Mr. Winkler comes from! For MAGNA, where Mr Finanzminister...!]] In order to achieve a balanced budget, the successful path of reforms that has been taken so far is still necessary. We have been showing, especially in public administration since 2000, how new forms of organisation, changes in the process and, above all, in the IT sector, which you, Mrs Sburny, have addressed – especially in the IT sector, e-government, as we win international prizes, as we show model projects – a public administration can be made efficient and efficient. [[Abg. Oils: Ah! Really?]] [[Abg. Sburny:... we crashed from 9th to 19th!]] – They don’t have it yet; I don’t know what old report you’re quoting from. [[Abg. Sburny: He's not old! It's new!]] With more than 130 reform projects, which have already been implemented or will be completed in the next year or next year, we will save €7.5 billion in total – cumulatively estimated. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Whoever believes will be blessed!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Is this your last speech?]] Just think of the big projects, of which Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior dared not even dream, such as the merging of the guards: We'll do it! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: 50 percent...!]] Think about the reform of financial management! Think about the introduction of the electronic file – again: IT applications –: These are our priorities. [[Abg. Silhavy: Then talk to the ARGE broadband about your policy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (a edition of the “Kurier” in height) In yesterday’s “Kurier”: “Austria threatens to crash as an IT site”!]] We are starting a discussion with representatives of countries and communities about how we can better coordinate the public administration of the federal government, the countries and the local authorities, how we can use synergies, which has already succeeded and where we can learn from each other. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: A pity, this State Secretary!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: We hear that every year!]] We already had a successful process number 1, which is why the other local authorities have gladly promised to continue this conversation – and we will continue this successful path! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again]] That's why I'm inviting you to: Please agree to the budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8043	For the remaining period until the end of the television broadcast, I set the speaking time per group at 4 minutes and ask for precise compliance. The next speaker was Mrs Mikesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8067	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Reliability and continuity are the most important factors for securing the location of Austria, safeguarding workplaces and training places and our businesses. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government pursues a budgetary and economic policy that is reliable, economical and forward-looking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, go zigzag! But in one you are consistent: Budget and economic policy step from one fat cap to the other. First you present an economic programme that is not yet available, then you demand tax increases and an additional burden on our companies, then you want to take on a higher deficit and then finally you want a zero deficit again. – Today, tomorrow hot – if you ride like that, easy to fall off the horse! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why do you criticize the Minister of Finance? I think that's brave!]] This federal government is able to continuously reduce the Maastricht debt ratio to 62.8 percent by 2006 through a responsible budgetary policy, while also implementing the largest tax reform in history and reducing the tax rate to 40.7 percent. This is a sustainable budgetary policy that is on the right path! We don't need to hide with our data! Four Austrian regions can be found among the top 10 of all 1 207 EU regions, the most attractive German region is only in place 443 – no wonder that many companies from Germany want to settle with us in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In order to achieve this, a country needs a healthy economy, because only healthy companies create and receive jobs and training places. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why today is a good time to say thank you: Thanks to the many entrepreneurs who, through their great personal commitment, their active force and their great personal commitment, secure the location of Austria, create work and thus give people safety. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Thank you, Karl-Heinz!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Despite wrong government policy!]] – Thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Despite adverse... the Minister of Finance!]] The backbone of the Austrian economy is our small and medium-sized enterprises in the cities and our regions. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You are right, Mrs Colleague, despite adverse conditions!]] Mr. Matznetter! These were not worth a sentence in your speech today! With its economic policy in recent years and tax reform in 2004/2005, the Federal Government has created economic milestones for our businesses – and this in the event of a falling deficit! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Unfortunately not for the middle..!]] This benefits all people, for: If the economy is good, we're all good! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Norbert Walter, Chief Economist of the Deutsche Bank, says: One thing is certain: We would like a Finance Minister Grasser and his policy in Germany! [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: Madam President, you should quote!]] I find it quite embarrassing that the SPÖ's spokesperson is constantly trying to stir up small and medium-sized enterprises against large companies by his statements. Daily life shows us a different picture With a healthy relationship, it is of course possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from management companies and corporations in the region. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Yes, that the little ones have to lock!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Did she talk about Leitel operators now?]] Even the words that the corporate tax reduction is only for the big ones, is not true! – 70 percent of all companies have less than 10 employees, 83 percent of all GmbHs have less than 20 employees. But of course: The tax reform also relieves the big and the corporations, and we hope for a good cooperation with them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] The SPÖ is always trying to dissuade the economy at all levels, and always explains that it does not train apprentices. At present, 120,000 apprentices are being trained in our businesses! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again]] [[Call the SPÖ:And say good-bye.]] But you have declared yourself today: They want election campaign – we want to work.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8276	The next speaker was Mr Broukal. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8298	At this point starts at the first... – Be peaceful! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Greetings, good morning! At this point in the budget discussions, does not traditionally start a “education wheel”? This time it will only be half because you, Mr Amon, or you, Mrs Brinek, or also Mrs Bleckmann, are no longer planning to go out here during the time of television broadcasting and explain what disaster your education policy is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ah, for you the television time is relevant!]] Instead, we need to listen to absurd things now! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We talked about education at the end of December in this room – at that time the crisis of the Gehrer School also came to the crisis of the universities: PISA was mouth in all people. And the alarming result that 20 percent of 15-year-olds cannot read properly in the Gehrer School after nine years, I think, has moved us all right. [[Call the ÖVP:In Vienna!]] 20 percent! [[Abg. Friend: Not in the federal states!]] Then there was a radio silence for a month and a half, and then there was an educational dialogue in the Hofburg where we were told things that we have known for years – but what we have not experienced on this day and up to now and also in the budget of the Minister of Finance, that was the answer to the most important question: What will be better on the first day of school in 2006? What will be different on the first day of school in 2006? What improvements will there be in reading, in mathematics, in the free follow-up to the school itself, in the afternoon care for the children of hundreds of thousands of parents who needed it urgently and for years? – The answer to this is in the 2006 budget: On the first school day in January 2006 nothing happens to improvements in these areas. Let's go through it individually: Promotions for kindergartens – you have the documents, please read with us! – in which the children of immigrants in particular should learn German at an early stage: not a single euro anymore. [[Call:Go safe]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Learn to read!]] Five-day week in schools: no single euro for full-day offers in primary and secondary schools, no euro for additional teachers in higher schools – even though the Minister of Finance falsely claimed the opposite two hours ago. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Yes, but not falsely!]] More funding lessons – now I speak, then you again: [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grass]] Show, report to the word, please! –, more funding lessons, not only for weaker students, but also for the good: in the 2006 budget no single euro! [[Abg. Scheibner: A “hospitable” person!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Action LESEFIT: in the 2006 budget – you already know – no more euro! More teacher education, more duty on teacher education: in the 2006 budget, Mrs Colleague, no more euro! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] If you've discovered him, you'll come down, I'd like to be corrected. The answer to the question of what will be new on the first day of school in 2006 is therefore: Nothing will be new because Mrs Gehrer was once again unable to enforce the Minister for Finance, and education is not, of course, a particular concern. I would like to talk about universities and science very briefly. This is where the disaster that has been known for years is prolonged. I am particularly concerned that there are already universities in this country that cannot pay their electricity bills. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] One of them has the address Wien 1, Karl-Lueger-Ring 1, and you yourself are a teacher there. Yeah, that's indifferent to you! But do you think that the University of Vienna deliberately does not pay the electricity bill, or just because it has too little money to pay it in time? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have resigned from education, science, research! The universities were worth seven more lines to the Minister of Finance in the 2005 budget speech, this time it is half a line. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But it won't take much longer: We'll do it better!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8500	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8521	Mr President. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, you have stood out here today and have said – I have written it down – that you are formally asking for new elections, because this is the guarantee of a better budget. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That's it!]] That must be massive self-question that you have. Because new elections will bring a black and blue majority, and only a black and blue majority is a guarantee for a better budget, even for the future of this republic. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can't even afford the opinion polls anymore!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This really no longer tolerable disease and illiteracy of this republic, I must say that it is no longer tolerable for a normal citizen who lives with both feet who is out in the economy, who knows where and how he earns his money! That is why I chose a “format ” a few weeks ago, from 4th century onwards. February 2005. There are 24 areas checked out, 24 areas of different nature: What has changed over the five years of this majority of governments, once blue-black, now black-blue? – Increasing average income, increasing prosperity, fewer officials, more students, increasing educational expenditure, higher expenditure on research and development, more graduates! I think all these are good examples of this government working very well, that the budget has been very well used in the past and is very well used in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Wrong speech!]] But there are also deteriorations in this study; I also wrote them out: We have become worse in the FIFA ranking, we have received more calls for order in Parliament, and the quality of life in Vienna has deteriorated dramatically. Short analysis: More calls of order, that is the really hopeless opposition, which can only cry against it because it will not bring anything together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] To judge the quality of life in Vienna is, I think, also the left half of the empire. And in football – okay, I admit that – we failed in football. [[Call the SPÖ:Schweizer! Your Secretary of State!]] Finally, because, when Mr. Klubobmann stood out here today, Mrs. Trunk once again talked about Carinthia – I really have to say that now – and I said it yesterday: It is really unbearable that the representatives of the federal state of their own state are constantly voting over their federal state, yelling at their federal state, displeasing their federal state and, although we are sitting there together in the government, having nothing better to do than get excited about Carinthia. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yesterday, as regards the name of Mrs Trunk, I received a call for an order from Mr President, because this name does not belong. I have therefore chosen a newspaper today to escape a call for order, and quote from it – Mr President, I quote literally –: “Würschl” – for those who do not know, that’s the socialist country managing director – “Würschl calls Trunk a known nationally.” I would like to quote this literally today because I don't want to get a call for order again. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something to the budget! To the 2006 budget!]] But the eternal evil, the eternal sluggish step, whether it be a federal country or the Republic, that has, I think, no one deserves here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8638	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8675	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr Finanzminister, you have tried several times today to explain that it is not necessary for Austria's compulsory schools to provide de facto more staff because the number of students is falling. I've been on the road a lot lately and have discussed the education system with many parents, teachers, students. They have always asked me a question, namely: Is it really that we are spending so much money in Austria for education that we have experienced in the last three or four years? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What are they doing with the money?]] We have got class combinations; we have language groups in which we sit to thirtyths, and no more shared lessons; we have no non-binding exercises; such things as musical lessons, such as additional lessons, all this has been massively deleted in recent years. Then again and again they hear from you or from the woman Minister for Education: Austria spends so much money on education! and they ask: Where is it? – Let’s try to get closer to what you have done: serious response. You write in your speech, and you said it yesterday, too: For national teachers, the federal government spends 12 million more. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Chapter Financial Balance, you have to say about it!]] – In the financial compensation chapter. Now I'm gonna get a bet with you. [[Abg. Neudeck: Wait, we don't have a bet there!]] If you find this €12 million in the 2006 financial compensation chapter, we will guarantee that €12 million will be made available to schools in Austria. [[Abg. Neudeck: The Matznetter is responsible for bets with its companies!]] If it is not inside, if you do not have these 12 million in the chapter Financial Balance, then you will guarantee that the 12 million are additional. Let's look at this bet. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] You find it quite clearly in the chapter of compulsory schools, and there these 12 million are included in the amount. These 12 million are inside. The reduction is de facto € 43 million since last year. Please read your own budget when we talk about seriality, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But perhaps again very slowly, so that you can see how our argumentation is Austria has in recent years got a massive problem with the educational comparisons with the funds available so far – it says no one has been responsible for the PISA results for the last two, three years – with what has happened in recent years. [[Abg. Scheibner: Slowly, but the speaking time is right!]] We say: Apparently that wasn't enough. You're saying, If there are fewer students, we cut to the same extent. No one has disputed that there are fewer students in public schools. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Yes, there are fewer students. By the way, one interesting thing is that the 2006 budget concerns the 2006/2007 school year: Do you know which students will then come to the schools? – The ones born in 2000. That's interesting: Their family policy should have led to an increase in the number of children in Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But now you're saying, Catastrophe, we have falling student numbers to go no more! By the way, this is your family policy, which is also going through here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You have to add at least nine months! It's not going that fast!]] [[Further calls.]] But if there are fewer students, then it is irresponsible – and that is what I can suggest to you – it is irresponsible to continue to the same extent as you have been doing this for three or four years! This situation is not new, we have it for several years. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then we come to this wonderful comparison you present. I suppose it's this study you're quoting from. [[The speaker shows a brochure in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] I don't know if you have the whole thing, with the Finnish comparisons, 2004. Have you ever looked in? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Of course!]] Have you ever looked at what year the data came from? – From which year do the data come? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: The investigation comes from 2004 and is the last investigation!]] No, the year the data came from! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Is it the last or not?]] What year did the data come from? – From 2001, Minister of Finance! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Is it the last investigation?]] All the savings you have made over the last three years cannot be in here, because it comes from 2001! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Do you have anything younger?]] On the subject of seriosity, in conclusion: You don't believe us that this data is overstated, do you? You think they're correct – is that right? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Yes, of course, is an OECD study!]] All right, all right. I quote the appropriate section head Wolfgang Stelzmüller – he may be a term for you, head of the Ministry of Education – in the “Press” of the 11th century. Feber said: “The actual expenditure per student per year is about 30 percent below the sum declared by the OECD for Austria.” – according to Wolfgang Stelzmüller, head of section responsible. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Minister of Finance, there is no seriality at your home!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8942	Mr Lopatka has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8963	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Prior to the last National Council elections, SPÖ-Chair Alfred Gusenbauer took up with a "Cabinet of Light": with four light rockets; two have managed to come to Parliament here: Broukal, and the second was Matznetter. With the idea that you have offered today, you are finally gleamed and crashed, ladies and gentlemen! There's nothing left of the "Cabine of Light". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Because there are no alternatives here, not to use the time of the opposition to develop alternative concepts, which is too little. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Don't worry about us!]] No, I'm not worried. As long as we're in government, you're welcome to continue. I'm not worried about that, nor are I the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As long as you're sitting on the opposition bank, we don't have to worry a lot. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Because you are so contradictory, ladies and gentlemen, that it is good that there are these television broadcasts. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is already gone!]] On the one hand, you are very concerned about the future of Austria in terms of budget and financial policy, at 1.7 percent budget deficit. You know that we are at the forefront of the EU of 25 in Europe. [[Abg. Riepl: Back all over the place!]] In the front: Five are in front of us, we are in sixth place, 19 EU countries are behind us. [[Abg. Parnigoni: In unemployment you are at the front!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You are now far ahead of the crime!]] But you're trying to create a mood here that you might think it would be necessary a savings package in the future. I'm sure not with us! But do you know when a savings package is needed? – If you only implement what an interview by your budget speaker, Matznetter, is now in the pre-election period for the Economic Chamber elections. I'm just taking an interview that's not yet a week old. In an interview last Friday, Matznetter in the magazine “Format”: In addition, 4 billion for the expansion of roads and rails, 1.5 billion for further tax reductions – economic chamber elections, therefore only for small and medium-sized enterprises – and 800 million for research and development, and 300 million for an educational account. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Bravo!]] When I count these amounts: The 1.7 percent – and this will also have to be taken into account. They can understand – we have a deficit of just over 5 billion. If I add to these 5 billion these amounts of matznetters, then I come – only with this one interview! – to 12.4 billion € in deficit, which is 3.65 percent! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Then I am exactly where social-democratic countries are and where your finance ministers have always been, beyond 3 per cent of the budget deficit! In this interview of last Friday, the editor faced Matznetter with his demands and said: “These are together” – in addition! – “Five billion euros, the deficit would be significantly more than three percent, and Brussels would send you a blue letter.” Do you know what Matznetter’s reply is? – He doesn't disagree at all, but he says: “Of course, the Stability Pact also needs to be amended in such a way that investment is not simply recorded as expenditure.” [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Please, Matznetter literally! Old socialist debt policy! [[Call the ÖVP: Isn't that a tax advisor?]] No, thank you, I tell you about this policy, no, thank you! Ladies and gentlemen! All right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Lentsch: This is a tax advisor!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can't even keep investments and current expenditure apart! No one understands that you're growing up like that!]] You know why? [[Abg. May. Kogler: You obviously don't know the difference!]] – Because, of course, investment is planned in our budget, Mr Kogler. Please, they're not extra-budget! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We know your computing skills. The best thing at all was Broukal before he meant: Where are the costs for kindergartens booked? [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can't even...!]] – Now he is here in Parliament for more than two years and still does not know that kindergartens are actually responsible for the countries and communities and not the Federation. At least he could have known. Mr Broukal, at least that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: I already know! But I also know how much the Wieners pay there!]] Yeah, I know how much they pay: In Vienna much more than in Lower Austria, in Vienna is paying them the most, colleague Broukal! Just so you know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: In Vienna 87 percent go...! In Lower Austria the kindergartens lock at lunchtime! Learn first, then talk!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The difference between you and us in budgetary and financial policy has once again become very clear. We will continue this budgetary policy consistently, in the interests of the people of this country. [[Abg. Broukal:... 5 billion new debts again!]] They may offer an alternative with altsocialist concepts, according to which one would like to lift the Stability Pact. The Austrians will form their opinion on this. [[Call the SPÖ:... dirt campaign!]] This is not a dirt campaign, but our policy is forward-looking, yours has remained stuck in the 1970s.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9250	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Provisions: 2 minutes, first of all the facts to be corrected, then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9279	Mr Lopatka has just meant that the kindergartens in Vienna would be the most expensive. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, it is!]] – That’s wrong! Rather, it is true that the contribution in kindergartens in Vienna is socially staged. For 40 per cent, it is the cheapest, zero euro, a third pays the full price, and about a third between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9317	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Niederwieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9338	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In 4 minutes you can only let a few strandlights shine. [[Abg. Neudeck: But that is the importance in your group! That has nothing to do with us!]] Let me start with Lopatka and Broukal, childcare facilities: We didn't know that had nothing to do with the covenant. [[Abg. Scheibner: Sharp criticism of the club tour!]] Take this booklet and save page 100. You will find there that in the years between 1998 and 2001 grants for childcare facilities, the kindergarten billions, were inside, which you had decided with us at the time. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Is the SPÖ already so far that it...?]] The representatives of the Federal Government and the cities have said at this educational summit that they want to start such a large programme, namely, that they want to expand the whole day's care: This must be a common effort of all local authorities. You say with this budget: The Federal Government approves. – It is scandalous that you say goodbye to this project! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You can't say on the one hand, we want to expand this, but we don't want to make big ones available for it. Second: The total budget for education is 23 million schilling. If I take these numbers right here... [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: More!]] No, it's 23 million schilling, colleague Brinek, that's 0.25 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: More!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: When it's swindling...!]] The extra burden on pensions alone... Euro, of course. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Euro!]] Excuse me, Euro! – The extra burden on pensions alone increases from 926 million to € 975 million among national teachers. A total of €23 million more, pension increase €49 billion more, you will see very clearly that nothing remains for schools themselves and for education. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] Mr. Finanzminister, you said in your debate: [[Abg. Broukal: He's already gone! Television's gone, and he's going!]] There are also more teachers where there are more pupils. You've repeated this here. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: For example, more planning places in Vienna! Financial compensation!]] Therefore, I ask you to show me in this issue, in education and culture, on the basis of the plans, where, for example, there is a job more in higher education schools. They have the numbers in the other issue in that the number of students increases. You don't have any more jobs in the business academies' establishment plans, the HTLs and so on exactly the same numbers as in 2005, anymore! The extra effort is just enough to cover the biennial jumps and these things, but not for any more, for no more. But you stand here and claim that there are more jobs. What do you want me to say? Do you want to keep us a fool, Mr. Finanzminister? Or do you think we can't check your numbers that you're presenting to us here yourself? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I really find this kind of dealing with the truth scandalous about what you are doing here with Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fact that nothing in the budget is contained in all the measures that were announced in large numbers at the Education Summit – ten points – is proof of this yourself. You know it best yourself, colleague Brinek and colleague Amon. What else would it make for a sense for you to date 2. March 2005 to Parliament a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to finally implement these measures of the education summit? – Because nothing is in the budget, you must ask your own federal government to finally do what is announced. [[Abg. Scheibner: “At last” is not there! Just quote!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But that's cheap too!]] What is that supposed to mean? – I’ve never experienced that before. There is a federal government announcing a programme, and its own government groups in the National Council must decide that this should be implemented. What you're doing here with such a procedure is almost politically perverse. This is not a solid basis for a budget. Essentially, the 2006 budget is the 2005 budget. There is no room for innovation. You passed PISA and everything else without a trace.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9539	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9560	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To the opposition address: Read – think – talk! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is not a budget of Edlinger, it is not a SPÖ budget, this is a budget of FPÖ and ÖVP, compiled by Minister of Finance Grasser. [[Abg. Eder: That's how it looks!]] [[Abg. Dr. One: You can see that too!]] Actually, you have to stand out here today and apologise to the Austrian population for the missing financial and economic policy that you have left behind in the last 30 years of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Yes, that's it!]] 154 billion € Debt, 7 billion € Interests per year go to the SPÖ account. You would normally have to go here and apologise or pay a solidarity contribution. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as attracting those responsible. But you make yourselves and play the big man here, you are mainly or a hundred percent responsible, for you have put the Minister of Finance. Now please go to the address of the opposition – whether green or red, it's all in one anyway: This budget says: To create work, to secure prosperity, to relieve taxes. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But please – don’t talk to me” – why didn’t you agree to tax relief? Why did you not agree to the major preferential tax reform 2004 and 2005? Why do you falsely claim in the public that this tax relief does not bring any harm to the citizen? 2.66 million people in Austria are tax-free. Talk to the people! I know you're talking too little to them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] The pensioners of small and medium-sized pensions receive up to 40 € per month more. Ask! Read it! Think! Talk to me! [[Abg. Neudeck: They don't need to talk!]] Take a pension extract from a pensioner from December 2004 and from January. Many come to me, because if they have a problem, they go to an employee's representative who is really one who knows himself. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Workers receive up to €50 or more per month. That's true, but you shouldn't have. I know. Opposition work – heavy work, only that one should be able to defend them accordingly. [[Abg. Neudeck: Yes, they want a heavy worker arrangement!]] This government alone spends €4.9 billion on active labour market policies. Well watch out! €4.9 billion to create work. This is €1.5 billion more than was spent in 1999 under a SPÖ Finance Minister. [[Abg. Oellinger: (on the way to the Bureau) We will correct this as soon as possible!]] We are worth the Austrian population or the workers twice as much as the old government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Apprenticeship problem: We know that we have a problem with young people, but we can only make the framework in politics, the other has to do the economy. Only they can recruit employees. Mr. Oellinger, you're probably not going to be able to stop anyone unless you have a farm. And that's where we set the conditions. In addition, each entrepreneur receives 1 000 € of free money, 1 000 € per year and per apprentice, and much more. We also fight poverty. In addition to the social transfers, there is another €2 872 million. There are over €3 billion to set up a research foundation. You have to read the budget! You need to read it. Infrastructure – a special pleasure –: There is an increase of 60 percent for the infrastructure in Austria – I really have to say, the Minister of Infrastructure and Vice-Chancellor Gorbach is the friend of the construction industry. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, he is the friend of the construction industry! There you are.]] The construction industry is the engine of the economy. When the construction industry flourishes, the whole economy flourishes. That is why there is also a corresponding economic recovery programme. [[Abg. Eder: That's exactly what it's all about!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: There you should write with the SPÖ!]] Listen, listen, please! Family relief: additional 1.1 billion €. Do you even know how much that is? 1.1 billion € more for the families. Why did the opposition vote against the child's money? Why did the opposition vote against the child supplement? Why did the opposition vote against the multi-birth regime? Why has the opposition voted against the harmonisation of pensions, which gives these women the reasons for pensioning? Why? What answer do I get in this regard? None! To the SPÖ I have to say honestly: You have to think a bit better. Read this budget! Read it, it's not an edellinger budget, it's a grassy budget. Thank you very much. The future of Austria looks very positive!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9754	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9788	Madam President. Member of the European Parliament Walch claimed in his statement that the budget for active labour market policy of the Federal Government would amount to €4.9 billion. – That is completely incorrect! Mr Walch, you have made the mistake of following what the Minister for Finance has said. [[Abg. Fauland: That was a valueless statement!]] The numbers look different. Total expenditure on labour market policy, including unemployment insurance, emergency aid and cetera, actually amounts to €4.9 billion. [[Abg. Scheibner: Come on! This is a real confirmation!]] But this is not an active labour market policy, these are passive achievements. If you place such great importance on knowing yourself, that would be the minimum you need to know, because these are insurance benefits of the insured but not active labour market policy. [[Abg. Fauland: So what kind of nonsense are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is an actual confirmation! Sign up for a word! This is not an actual correction, it is a debate contribution!]] In the field of active performance, the budget report shows – read this – that expenditure on active labour market policies has actually fallen. You can read this in the budget report on page 95, Mr Walch. But actually reading, thinking, speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9879	The next item is Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9903	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Minister of Finance presented us with a new edition of one, one can say, New Year's Address, because we have already heard that concrete budget statements were rather footnotes, general confessions were, so to speak, the fundamental tenor. I would like to take a few of your general confessions and question specific facts and facts. Mr Finanzminister! First of all, on the main problem we are facing at the moment, on the issue of unemployment. You said yesterday: The future is our programme. I would like to know what you are really doing here – and in part my previous speaker has also mentioned it – in active labour market policy. What is in the budget here and what has been mentioned in your speech is far too thin for me. We must go much deeper into this, not only can we start up education and research, but we also need another investment policy in infrastructure. I would like to stress that there is another investment policy. For look at the investments, which, for example, has also been called Mr Walch. It was about the construction industry. Mr Gorbach, who pointed out this €7.5 billion, who now have to pay interest on debt and who, in his opinion, should also be used for infrastructure investment, has also talked about the construction industry. But look at it in concrete terms – it will actually be shortened. Look If you look at the numbers, in the infrastructure sector it is actually shortened. I can read it to you exactly: Overview Table Page 99, Infrastructure Investment, Budget plus breakdown 2006 compared with 2005 by € 223 million decrease. I say it honestly, too, that's in the road construction area. I am quite right that less investment is being made there, because of course we create minimum jobs there. This is not about creating jobs, it is about securing construction machinery. It is also the same with all the tunnel projects that you prote at Semmering, partly at the Brenner or at the Koralm. [[Abg. Fauland: These are guilds, Mrs. Colleague!]] These are employment programmes for construction machinery. What we need is employment for people, employment for young people, employment is also for people of advanced age. That is why your investment policy is too short. We want to invest in public transport. We want to create jobs there. It's about quality, it's about personnel, it's about better public transport, it's about better transport conditions. They're labour-intensive because they're quality. We want to invest in a Kyoto programme. We want better, heat-insulated, energy-saving buildings. But what is the budget, Mr. Finanzminister? – The investment volume in the German high-rise construction is declining. Another € 5 million will be taken back, as it were. Buildings and so on are no longer provided for in the Federal Budget to the extent that this would be necessary. Mr Pröll, Minister for the Environment, adopts one climate change programme after another, one study after another is presented, only real, in the budget I lack the figures for these job-creating, energy-saving and future-saving millions and billions. I'm missing this. There the funds are invested and not in tunnel projects, where it is only about machines. Another aspect, which is always related to job security and, of course, is also closely linked to the quality of life of the population, is the question of the tax rate. Mr Minister, yesterday you wanted to make us clear to us with simple sentences: The future lies more or less in low taxes. Yes, I'm happy to be there, everyone likes lower taxes. Only, you have to say at the same time that low taxes also mean low benefits, that, for example, health insurance contributions go up when low taxes are that pension contributions go up if lower taxes are that maybe school money needs to be introduced, because education expenditure also needs to be combated and lower taxes reduce revenue. They are not saying that a low tax rate is a low performance rate, that quality of life is minimized, that employment is reduced, that overall, the level that Austria has achieved fortunately, then also decreases. Look at that elsewhere. You like to do benchmarking, you move in this international financial world, so you know colleagues and finance ministers from other countries. Look at how the Scandinavian countries stand. In Finland there are plus 2.2 percent surplus in the budget, in Denmark plus 1.7 percent surplus in the budget, in Estonia plus 0.1 percent surplus, in Sweden with a high tax rate, plus 0.8 percent surplus in the budget. [[Abg. That's little!]] And people there have a high quality of life. Sure, they pay taxes, but I have to honestly say it's preferable to me, not less taxes, but a bit more taxes, and for that I have a secure world, a secure environment. [[Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Your tax savings program is based on the fact that at the judicial station you cut shorts that the police cut shorts down on the federal army that you cut in the educational budget that you cut shorts in research. All these are benefits that the public hand should and must provide for the benefit of the population. And there is no need to cut short, because it is of little use if I pay less taxes if I have on the other hand an uncertain environment of life, which leads to employment and also personal security. [[Abg. Wittauer: If I'm a double earner, it's not that hard, but many people don't!]] [[Abg. Zweytick: There are no taxes in Germany at all!]] – We can also talk about what the German agreement cost, what the consequences of globalisation are et cetera. [[Abg. Zweytick: But that can't be the answer!]] I am only showing the Minister of Finance within his colleagueship, within the Minister of Finance in European countries, and he is not very bad at that, but others are better there, and we should be looking at others. The Minister of Finance always has a very ambitious approach. What I strongly support is that you are ambitious, but then you should really be guided by the quality aspects of a budget in other countries. [[Abg. Wittauer: Many people in Europe would be happy if they could live in Austria!]] Now the next aspect you will always present in your budget speeches as a quality feature of the Austrian world of life. You said yesterday that we had 200 000 more vehicles in Austria; on page 3 this is to be read. So I wasn't sure you'd put an increase in passenger cars as an increase in quality of life, standard of living et cetera. [[Abg. Fauland: Sure! Mobility!]] We need mobility. We no longer need cars, but we need better mobility, and I am in favour of job-intensive mobility. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is a naughtiness to many people who depend on the car because there is no infrastructure!]] Mr Wittauer, I am in favour of public transport. I'm in favour of investing in local transport. [[Abg. Fauland: But not one-sided, Mrs Colleague!]] That would really be an offensive concept. That is where we can find ourselves, Mr Wittauer. There is certainly a common level, since we should really be more united, but not in the number of cars we must put a slatte to the Minister of Finance, which I think is ridiculous. A second aspect, which is very essential to me. It's really about the sensible saving. Unfortunately, my colleague is not stupid here – I am quite in agreement with him: It's also about saving. Read in today’s “Salzburger Nachrichten”. That's where a Wifo expert, who also suggests that one could actually save ambitiously, writes the budget expert Margit Schratzenstaller, if I have read it properly. It proposes that we should finally tackle the administrative reform efficiently. Mr Finanzminister, I may even be going into open doors with you. But where did you come from? Where did we criticize at the Convention? Where do we agree with Mr President-in-Office of the Convention? There would have been the possibility of efficient progress in administrative reform. [[Abg. Wittauer: Once the countries have to do their homework!]] Since it would have been possible, through the reform of the tasks, to finally make savings in the distribution of competences with the countries, saving in your sense, to generate money in the favor of the communities, which we so put into an administration that is double-track, even partly tri-track. I am quite of the opinion of your colleague, President Leitel. He always says we should save and get more money from the administrative reform. Although this budget has a headline of administrative reform, you fail in the most recent savings: administrative reform, reorganisation of competences. The Convention has really removed its flags before the national leaders, in front of your colleagues in the federal states, where it concerns pure power policy. That is why, Minister of Finance, your speech yesterday was more or less a rejection of the future and not a "future is our programme". We need a change of direction, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10092	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10113	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter is not here now, but he has rightly meant that Mr Grasser is not easy. He is quite right when he thinks of the debt, the interest payments our Federal Minister has to pay with his State Secretary and this government from the former inheritance. He's right, Matznetter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But actually, it doesn't have easy on the mat netter itself. [[Abg. Eder: All of us have a hard time!]] I am thinking of his budgetary policy, his economic policy. There it, I think, also gave a program, but that was forgotten, buried or classified as not feasible by its own people. [[Abg. Friend: They dug it in again!]] The very successful finance minister Androsch has read to him the Levites – you can read it everywhere – that it would be useless. His forecasts, which he gave in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 about budget success and so on, have proved to be false, as opposed. One could say that Matznetter is an excellent hit builder. He creates a facade, says he would make everything better, more extensive, faster, more efficient, but then – on the question “How?” – he is gone. The house of cards has collapsed, ladies and gentlemen! Nor do I always want to deal with red-green, Germany and so on, but if he does not tell us how he would actually implement it, we will not be left with anything but to deal with an example of red-green or also with that subject where perhaps some failures of SPÖ became visible. On national policy, ladies and gentlemen. – In the latest issue of the “Communal-Zeitung”, in the mayor’s magazine, a successful SPÖ mayor, Bernd Rosenberger from Bruck an der Mur, also speaks in a remarkable interview as follows – I quote –: We are in the heart of the former nationalized industry. There have been huge restructurings here. It was necessary to reorientate completely and secure new economic priorities. It was also necessary to restore confidence and optimism to people. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Even better it could not be rewritten – this mayor is a SPÖ mayor! –, there is nothing to add to it. [[Abg. Gaál: Everyone can make a mistake once!]] In the last 20 years, too little has been built – even this is what he gives of himself. Ladies and gentlemen! I guess that's clear. I do not want to point out your economic competence or the people close to you. So I think of Sallymutter, I think of Hobl, and there were others who once worked in the “consumer. ” Well, I never enjoyed the “consumer” flop. Ladies and gentlemen! I also understand how critical the Voest privatisation has been, even a waterloo has been spoken of. It's not been that long since colleague Broukal launched an excellent road show, a Voest propaganda machine, held great celebrations in the company itself with 5,000 employees, and was perfectly guided by the program – he can do that, you have to leave it. [[Abg. Lentsch: He learned that too!]] The success was celebrated. The employees are happy because of their employee participation that this company is so good. Who brought this privatisation, ladies and gentlemen? Not you! You have voted against it, you have drawn all the registers and people are in a populist state of uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The key points of this budget speak for themselves: The Maastricht deficit is falling, the financial debt is falling, the tax rate will already be just over 40% in 2006, despite a major tax reform, despite priority measures, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Moser, just one sentence on your remarks, in which you praised the north of Europe, the northern countries, as better. But you should say something about Sweden, for example – that's exactly what I know, because I looked at it myself –: Pension for men and women 65 years and not earlier. And if a pension reform is made here in the way that the retirement age comes to the close of 60 years, here you will come to the speaker's desk and talk about social injustice. You should mention both, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is a nice comparison in the “manager magazine” to the site competition, to mention this also: Austria with its regions is striking. I personally am pleased that my region, Wels, is called third in a train with Linz, because of its excellent connection and infrastructure. This is something essential, Mrs Moser, especially in rural areas, that the infrastructure has been expanded. Transport is too little for us. If you are right to point out the problems of the city, you should also remember the problems of rural areas, because there are a lot of people living there too. They have also earned a connection to public transport networks, an improvement in infrastructure. In this sector in particular, the budget secures essential areas. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for Finance for having made a clear commitment to a financial compensation which must be of equal value to every citizen. In this sense, I am sure that this 2006 budget will set priorities in an excellent way and ensure that the future is safeguarded. We therefore agree with him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10223	Next, Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10244	Dear Jakob Auer, your contribution has, of course, been interesting. The fact is, however, that the restructuring of the national lights in Kapfenberg took place between 1985 and 1991. In my memory, it has a co-participation – partly! – the ÖVP has been given, but it has not happened during this period of government. That is why the mayor of Bruck is right: It was a successful renovation, a successful restructuring. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And that's why, dear Jacob, ladies and gentlemen, that was another shot in the knee. At the ATW, the restructuring is taking place in your time of government. The result is that the ATW is now grounded and one site after another is locked up. This is national policy à la ÖVP – it is negative for the population and for workers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You should not be glad at all about your “glonzal achievements” that you carry out in the budget, for what does it say, for example, in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” (Salzburger Nachrichten)? –: Sections in the social system are expected. And what does the “Economic Sheet ” write? –: Budget: That's what matters to us now. First of all, belts are tighter, second social cuts, third farms are waiting. This is a significant picture on you, especially on the so-called Christian-socials among you, if the main tenor of this budget is to tighten the belt tighter. Ladies and gentlemen! That makes it clear how it is about you. Today, you yourself have demanded massively more money for security with your Taferln. I'll give you the right to do that, too. By the way, this also writes the “standard”: Grasser saves in schools, justice and security. - That's right, too. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at this in the 2006 draft budget, you can see that there is no more cents for internal security. On the contrary: For public security, there is €8 million or 110 million schilling less than in the previous year. And already in 2005, there was no success story, as the share of internal security in government expenditure has fallen below 3 percent, which is to 2.94 percent. Now it has even fallen to the historical low of 2.85 percent. The importance actually assigned to the Minister of Finance of Internal Security can be read in his speech: It wasn't even a whole sentence, there were exactly five words – I quote –: Union of Police, Gendarmerie and Customs Guard” – six words, apologies, one I have rejected. This is the whole perspective that this Minister of Finance has in mind for internal security. In view of this, of course, the question arises: Have you seen from Black-Blue, has this government not yet seen how our security situation is that in the last five years we have had a dramatic increase in the crime by 30 percent that the investigation rate has fallen from more than 50 to 38 percent over the same period? The population already feels it on its own. There's hardly anyone who doesn't have someone in his relationship who's been in the past. has been damaged by a theft or by a burglary. Now, on one side of the population, the money from this policy, from black and blue, is being pulled out of their pocket, and more and more often the stock exchange is being pulled out of the skirt, namely those who could not be made dazzled by the failure of the government. Ladies and gentlemen! That's where you failed enormously. I remember what you always promised the people: We give the executive modern investigation methods into the hand. That's all right, we also voted in favour, but I'm stuck. They have fewer than 800 employees. In these circumstances, how will you really be able to use the new instruments, monitoring with video cameras, monitoring the protection zone, and so on and so on? What you are providing in this area really does not provide a future-oriented approach to internal security, and people will have to continue to deal with the untold high level of crime in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10310	Next item is the report by Mr Fauland. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10332	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of security, I shall come to speak in the second part of my remarks, because it is not, of course, just as Mr Parnigoni has described it. But first of all, first of all: Not of about Austria has developed under a blue-black and then black-blue government to become the third-richest country in Europe. This should be noted once. [[Abg. Gradwell: And that has been in the last five years? Since when are you in the world?]] I come to speak on your remarks! The planned deficit for 2006 is 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product. It is a conscious intake of this relatively low re-indebtedness, but it entails, on the one hand, a tax reform for Austrian households, which has never existed in this way and at this level, and on the other hand also provides important impetus for our Austrian economy. The aim of achieving the zero deficit in 2008 is in line with the visionary view of the Minister of Finance, and one also sees and recognises its long-term objective of rehabilitating Austria after decades of SPÖ domination in this department. This far-reaching view, not only to lead Austria from one legislative period to another, but also to think beyond legislative periods, this far-sighted view, Mr. Colleague, was not recognizable by your ministers, because in times of high-economy debt, one must first bring it together! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Your government periods are getting shorter and shorter!]] Because you were in the final effect to quote Kreisky, a unemployed person less important than a billion schilling debts. We will then address the safety chapters even more precisely in the committees, but it certainly does not entirely correspond to my wish that we have no increase compared to the 2005 budget. In the case of a decrease in the interior area, as in the case of Abg. Mr Parnigoni. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. The design reduction is a theoretical size. The fact is that the combination of the waxes will lead to a shift in jobs, from people to the administrative sector, into the operational arm of the executive, in that area, where on the street there will be more executives. And this will certainly help to make all Austrians feel more secure in our but so beloved Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I would like to address a position which is very important to the Freedom Party in particular, namely the approach to asylum and xenophobia, which will also be € 106.7 million in 2006, if one follows the attack. It can already be seen that all the measures taken up to date have not necessarily optimised the reliability of the handling of asylum applications. That is why it is imperative to optimize the asylum law very quickly now, to innovation it in order to make it more complete, because, above all, the misused asylum applications are binding on financial and human resources that we need elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10394	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10415	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I don't know if you know this from earlier years. There was and is a tradition of showing politicians in comics and cartoons. President Nixon, who had been working some time before you, was presented as a broom seller at the time of the Vietnam War, and the people who bought brooms from him were lulled in the cartoon. There are also outside Cartoon's things that have not been forgotten to this day, for example, President Bush – watch out, colleague Großruck! – who said: read my lips – no tax increases! And what did he do? We all know, and that's why it went into the annals: After being elected, it immediately increased those taxes. I find it difficult to classify what you are doing in this tradition, but you certainly belong to it. This is speech bubble, bubble policy, what you're doing. You are presenting us with the budget speech here, which in fact – I believe, Mr Gusenbauer has mentioned this – belongs to the sphere of fictionality. What you characterise is on the other hand. I'm trying to prove this to you on a few examples. Mr Federal Minister, you claim that there have been more 100 000 employees since 1999. Do you know why this is a trick? You fall into your own statistics. There is a statistics that includes the employees of children's benefits, whether they have been or will ever be employed before or after. Only by the fact that they receive child benefits will they be designated as employees. You know, I know this has nothing to do with employment. They get money, child money, child care, but they're not busy. Civil servants are also kept in these statistics, regardless of whether they are employed before or after. Attendees are kept inside, regardless of whether they are employed before or after. This is why there is a second statistics – which you should have used – which shows the number of active self-employed workers. And then it looks quite different. There is not a plus of 100,000 between 1999 and 2004, but if I take the year 1999 and the year 2004, i.e. the average average, there are 41 318 more jobs. [[Call the ÖVP: Bad?]] Good! Let's take a look at this, because it's still going on. If I then take the number of part-time jobs increased between 1999 and 2004 and the conversion into full-time equivalents, then your plus of 41 000 will disappear completely. Nothing remains that evaporates! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: What do you have against part-time work?]] No, I am not against part-time work, of course not, but we have to take that into account somehow. Finally, you also notice the income for social security, because of course this also means falling revenue. It is a fictitious increase in employment, which only needs to be correctly expected, for example in full-time equivalents, in order to fully dissolve into air. So it's not 100 000, as you write, but it's 41 000. If I also take into account part-time employment, then it is zero more. That's tragic enough. However, I do not want to stop at all because we should also talk about record unemployment, a subject that you should already pay more attention to. What else are you saying? Austria becomes a country of business. – Last year more than 30 000 new companies were set up, today there are more than 70 000 companies than 1999. Okay. Have you also mentioned the numbers of insolvencys? Since 1999, there have been 30 000 insolvencys, 30 000! We have an all-time high in insolvency in 2004. The KSV even speaks of an insolvency debacle in Austria. We are Europe-wide – EU-wide – the country with the highest insolvency rates in relation to the total number of farms. And then you make yourself and say, Great, it's moving forward!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's the other side of reality that you're responsible for. The fact that there are more commercial enterprises alone does not at all state whether they are viable, viable and whether they achieve sufficient income. You should know that a little bit better. You say, Mr Federal Minister, and this is a beautiful sentence that you have to quote: We invest €4.9 billion in our labour market. – You do not invest anything in the labour market at all, Mr. Federal Minister! The Federal Ministry doesn't give a cent, not a big one. [[Abg. Hornek: Neither do you!]] Right, me neither! The insured shall pay their insured contributions. That is not what you are paying, nor is the Minister of Finance, and he is therefore not allowed to put himself here and say: We're investing. The insured or the companies pay these contributions. The Minister of Finance does not pay for it at all, but makes himself and says: We invest 4.9 billion €. This is pure cynicism, Minister of Finance! That's not how you can run politics. [[Abg. Donabauer: And what about the tax reform?]] You, Minister of Finance, say that there is € 104 million more for active labour market policy. That's not true at all! I have chosen the figures from the budget report: In 2003, it was €765 million, 2004 – 754, 2005 – 725, and 2006 will be €722 million. Read it in the budget report if you don't believe me! This means reducing resources for active labour market policies. And then also Mr Walch comes out and fantasizes something of €4.9 billion for active labour market policy. So, please, that's certainly not how it is! Mr Federal Minister, there are serious problems in the labour market. You will not be able to talk about these with your vacuum cleaner policy, and that is exactly the problem we should discuss.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10514	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Maier. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10554	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't quite understand the reference to this cartoon with Nixon and Vietnam. [[Abg. Oils: Don't do anything! I'll show you!]] Even if you like to stand at Nixon as you want: After all, the Vietnam War has just ended in its term of office. That's one of his merits, even if he's got watergates, as you know, on 4. ==References====External links== But let's get to the budget! I believe that a budget debate serves to compare economic policy in the country a little. So I want to start with a quote: Vienna is Austria's economic engine, claims the President-in-Office Rieder at the latest SPÖ-Klausur in Rust, and he then says: In contrast to the Federal Government, we continue our growth strategy with the aim of combining maximum employment with maximum value added and economic growth. - Quote. I agree now, a little on the 26th. To look back on November 2003 and to announce a short jubilation: “The decision of Baxter International at the Muthgasse site to combine several of its existing and new research and development capacities in the field of BioScience confirms our way to position Vienna more strongly as a high-tech location. With this, we get into the next weight class of biotechnology and thus lay the basis for around 2,000 new highly qualified jobs.” – Mayor Häupl and Sepp Rieder back then. They're still going on with this and they're saying: “The decision of Baxter International Inc. (USA) was preceded by around 500 to 600 employees at the Muthgasse site to be built. In addition to the Vienna Biocenter, this will create another nucleus of European biotechnology in Vienna, which will go into operation from 2007 onwards and will accommodate some 2,000 employees in this high-tech industry.” Unfortunately, I now have God's sad duty to deliver the Job Message, that although the ladies and gentlemen of Baxter were here and have looked around, they have withdrawn again, because they have felt shaken by the Vienna city administration. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: poverty certificate!]] Mr. Mayor Häupl was also with Sepp Rieder in America and at that time made an offer to count the land rental or rent for this property with about 20 € per square meter. When the ladies and gentlemen of Baxter were here, this suddenly cost a lot; the rent was far more than 20 percent higher than he promised. This has led the representatives of Baxter to say: Don't let us plant! Thus, there is a legitimate suspicion and concern that this project does not come about, while at the same time – and that was the statement of the responsible – not only Baxter, but also the University of Soil Culture should have built additional research sites. That is to say, this European biotechnology cluster is not going to be anything. Except for nothing to pay! Mr. Vice-Chairman did not say anything about this in the SPÖ clause for safety reasons, and his position offensive in 2005, as he called it, is in fact pure macularity. But I believe – and this is the danger of this rejection of Baxter – that Sandoz will probably move its research centre from Vienna to Munich. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why? Now you have always told us that everything comes from Germany to Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's an incredible danger! As far as Vienna's city administration is concerned, it would be necessary to finally start an offensive out of a loose-less situation, namely from a helpless urban development policy and from an overwhelming economic policy, and to really bring these companies into the country or to keep them here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (on the ranks of the ÖVP pointing) There is no one there at all! I don't know what you got!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You should not be surprised if such a development is now being developed among the team that made the BA/CA deal and sold to the HVB, and you continue to do so in a diletantic manner. Jakob Auerhat briefly addressed the site study and was pleased that his region was in a very good position. I say to you, the unfortunate thing is that in this study, Vienna was on 22nd. ==References====External links== So I can't quite understand that Vienna's social democracy always announces how great Vienna is. If it's in this "manager magazine": Austria – the better Germany, we really have to say, Vienna – the worse Austria when you see it economically.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10658	The next item is the speech by Mr Gaál. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10679	Madam President. Federal Minister! We are here to discuss a federal budget. Just one sentence, dear Dr. Shipping Maier: You know very well when you look at the statistics about Vienna that Vienna is the only federal country with declining unemployment. [[Abg. Hornek: Because she's so high!]] It's detectable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And Vienna invests more financial resources in the Vienna economy than the Federal Government spends on total Austria. That's why we're very good at it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All international surveys on quality of life in terms of jobs show that we always take third to fifth places worldwide. This is a very successful urban policy, which is being carried out there – unlike what we are experiencing here at the federal level, Minister of State. The budget is the policy set out in figures. When you recall your speech yesterday, you have to say that there has been a lot of wishful thinking there, statements of intent and often sounding words in the foreground. [[Abg. May. Kogler: More wishes than thinking!]] Let's just think about the harmonisation of pensions. Federal Minister! This pension reform does not even deserve the name of reform, has nothing to do with harmony at all, but is a pure savings programme. There will be a very brutal savings course, in which the middle and smaller incomes in particular will be deeply taken into account. This is noticeable and noticeable and hurts. Therefore, there is no reason for optimism. Lose with this budget You really are the last remaining credibility. The area of security policy, defence policy – that has already been said here, Minister of State – was hardly worth two lines to you. This confirms that you have very little left for security and defence policy. The current budget estimate – that is right – is an attack on the security of Austria and its people and therefore does not agree with us. Mr Federal Minister, for you, security and defence policy is almost exclusively for the purchase of these Eurofighters, these fighters, this warplane, which you rightly call as such and have repeatedly said that it is not manageable and non-financial. That is why you owe us today the reason for this change of mind, which has led you to choose the most expensive variant. The cost of this purchase cannot be estimated. We face exploding production costs, serious safety deficiencies and an ever-growing list of errors. And not only the operational capacity is questionable, but more than ever, it is also the non-estimable costs for operation and maintenance. These bombardments, Mr. Federal Minister, are not to be financed. They have not made financial provision for this in the budget. To date, there is no coherent financing concept. They have just pushed everything out, and that means that these are huge debts for the future without later taking responsibility for it. Mr. Federal Minister, I can only recommend: Use this exit clause! The purchase conditions have not been met. The procurement directives, the tendering criteria, were non-ordinary. There is an unending list of shortcomings and failures. We have said time and again that this Eurofighter purchase, this sintering procurement will prove to be a barrel without soil. Therefore, it would be right and important to leave immediately. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Toni, you don't believe that! You don't want to say that!]] A policy that promises the zero deficit on the one hand, while on the other hand it makes huge debts for the future, is insidious. We do not need this policy. That is why this budget does not agree with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10766	Mrs Mittermüller. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10788	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Strong family policy accents, which find their rainfall in the Federal Budget 2006, were very interested in my future work in this House. “The focus of the family is on all measures taken by the government.” – These were words in the budget speech of our Federal Minister for Finance yesterday. Here it may be said that the family policy announcement of recent times was the childcare allowance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was certainly a milestone of family policy. This budget approach is therefore interesting to me because I myself, as a liberal local politician in Carinthia, collected signatures for this childcare allowance on the street, when all the other political parties doubted the implementation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I remember very briefly the doubts and statements of the “uncovered children’s check”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: That was terrible!]] These have not proved true. In 2001, this childcare allowance was introduced in Carinthia. That was a year before it took over federal policy. Child care benefits have strengthened the awareness of the family and family work in society – and this was essential. Family work has again received appreciation. I think that was the highest time. Today, I believe, all political parties are happy. It is, however, especially pleased that all families have received the childcare allowance and that it has established, undisputed and firmly anchored its rainfall in the Federal budget 2006. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The child care allowance is a considerable amount of approximately € 1 billion. If you look at the total family budget with about €5.6 billion, that's a great order. I guess you can say that. Ideally, children in Austria can be cared for by their mothers in the most important development period of their lives, from birth to third year, from their families. But we have created a free society with this childcare allowance – and this has also been done by federal policy. It doesn't mean any more. Children or profession. It can be both agreed. I recall the high limit of commitment that makes it possible for mothers to reconcile both things. This measure was highly time-consuming. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The success of child money – before the birth figures were addressed – can not only be measured in birth figures. The success is, I believe, to measure in quite different values. We all know the wrong developments that children can experience in the period from birth to the third year of life if the care is not family-compliant. It's a value that can't be measured in money at all. I also remember the high cost of repairing these misdevelopments. However, I believe that future childcare needs to be further developed. I think that society and its forms of life have very individual needs. I remember single mothers or the mother's mother's professional image. The daily mother's professional image needs to be strengthened. Training and care of the mother-in-law must lead to a good professional image. We also need action in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to conclude with the thought that politics is a good policy when figures in the budget are so low that one realizes that people are at the heart of politicians' action. In this case it is our families and our children. We should continue this way together, I believe.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10860	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10882	Madam President. High house! Dear colleague Mittermüller! You immediately influenced the discussion on a sustainable basis when you said that you were at the time to introduce the childcare allowance from the beginning. They said it would have been a totally unwarranted accusation that the critics had made by saying that this check would be undiscovered. I would like to point out to you that the budget in question provides for a sum of exactly €434 600 000, which will flow from the budget to the Family Allowance Fund, so that the childcare allowance can be financed at all. The Family Allowance Fund has been bled out for a long time and must be supported by the current budget. So these are financial resources that are now missing in the other budget. They are no longer available, they are no longer available. In the field of education, for example, where we urgently need them, these funds are missing and are not used. In this respect, the introduction of the childcare allowance was an uncovered check, the costs of which are now to be paid by other sectors. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister of Finance Grasser! Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen found today that your speech about yesterday was indispensable. I'll join him. Nevertheless, I thought about what you told us yesterday. For example, I want to come to family that you mentioned in your statement. I'd like to quote you. They said: “The focus of family moves through all the government’s actions.” – That’s interesting. As examples, you mentioned: ‘Value-of-value doubling of the billing of child education in pension reform (...)’. - That's right, I'll give you the right. That's where you made improvements. The other side of the medal, however, looks like you extended the 15-year calculation period to a life-long calculation period, giving much greater disadvantages to women who stay at home with children than you have even improved the situation with your better billing times. I ask you to finally take note of this or to prove to us the opposite. You've been guilty of it to this day. [[Abg. Donabauer: We will show you the opposite!]] - No, you don't prove it. The Minister announced this many months ago. You won't be able to show it to me unless you have a correspondingly imaginative handling of numbers. He's got the government. You'll still be able to do that. I'm sure of that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They indicated the increase in family allowances as a further point. If you look at the percentages of the increase and the increases published just two days ago in the expenditure area of daily needs, these increases do not, by far, cover what life with children actually costs. You say you're raising the single-earner and single-earner deposits. You did. However, they thereby punished exactly those families – and do so further – who divide their family and employment justly. This is a very clear family measure that you have taken here; it goes at the expense of those who do. The childcare allowance is always mentioned as an answer when it comes to what you have done for the families. That's the main point. I wonder what the reality of these families has been since there was child care. It has already been taken into account in the figures I am telling you. According to the new Social Report, there has been an blatant deterioration for families within the last two years. We have 535 000 people living in families who are at acute risk of poverty. This applies not only to single parents, but not only to families of non-Austrian origin, but also to your very traditional families. These are the families where the husband is employed and the wife is at home. Here you have a poverty risk, which is two and a half times as high as that of all other Austrians. And all of this doesn't give you any thought at all? You just close your eyes to your current policy. I would like to mention a number of remarks made by the Minister: We “work hard and consistently to improve the living conditions of our people. ” Minister! You don't even look at how the population is doing! You don't want to see it! How do you want to improve something? You're not ready to say: Yes, we today have twice as high a risk of poverty in the families as we did two years ago. Just as this lamp shines here, you'd have to ring the alarm bell. They're not taking any action! You just ignore that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is no basis for you to make a policy that is really future-looking and that will bring something to the coming generations as you do in very well formulated and beautifully decorated sentences. Their sentences are smoke stuffed. Do a fine budgetary policy, which is really reflected in the figures, for all those who urgently need it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10936	Mrs Bures has made a statement on an actual correction. You know the rules: 2 minutes speaking time. First of all, the case to be corrected and then the corrected one. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10961	Madam President. Mr. Dr. Maier said here at the speaker's desk that the discussions with the Group on the establishment of a biotechnology cluster in Vienna failed. – Rather, it is true that these discussions are just taking place and that in mid-March there will be a discussion with Baxter’s head of the group about the establishment of a biotechnology cluster and that, therefore, these discussions have not failed. On the contrary: They're running, and we hope they're going well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10985	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11011	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, also at the gallery! I would like to point out to you that today we are not holding the special debate, but the general debate on the budget speech of Mr Finanzminister, that is, the first reading. That's why many topics are tailor-made. If I hear the contributions, I would like to say one thing: There will be no country in which politics can fulfil the wishes of all parties and all citizens. That's normal. [[Abg. Mandak: Half a million people...!]] However, I think it is very depressing that you are here and simply saying that Mr Finanzminister's speech is essential. Do you know what I'm saying? – So many fundamental criticisms or, if you want, slave criticisms that you place here would be indispensable! [[Abg. Mandak: That you don't like to hear that, that doesn't surprise me!]] You as opposition are also invited to make constructive proposals, to discuss and to think together. You can say without a doubt that one approach or another would be different. No question. [[Abg. May. Kogler: A budget in the budget speech may well be desired!]] – But the overall orientation, Mr Mag. Kogler, you know, is all right! If we have a 1.7 percent drop in Maastricht today, look at Europe and show me countries that make it better! There's supposed to be two. But these are small states. We compare with them, too. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Finland plus 2.2 percent! That's not small!]] We're on our way here. Let a little patriotism come up at last! Have some joy with your own country! They are also parliamentarians of this country. Don't just criticize you! They also have the duty to represent one or the other differently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Point two: They criticize everything and everyone. – Yes, this budget and this government have opened up to discuss, address and change important issues, such as employment policy. Unemployment is a pleasant thing for no one. It is not pleasant for those to whom it relates, nor for politics. I think creating employment is a social and political challenge. There is a need to create appropriate framework conditions, and they have been created. In the discussion on tax reform in 2004/2005, you have given us an ongoing indication that we will make a corporate sponsoring with the reduction of the Köst. – What is true? It is true that we have thus created a competitive situation which enables us here in Austria to keep existing jobs and that new ones come to Austria. Isn't that a great approach? Can't we all work together and think about how you might be able to improve this? – We have evidence that farms have come here. You know: Work is important – not only because we do not have to pay unemployment support, but also because of the fact that results are generated. In this way we can carry out our tasks in education policy, in security policy and, of course, in social policy. We'll act in good time. Look You're going to countries where that didn't happen! I can give you an example from Germany. There has been a long wait, where people with social reforms have been put in the situation – and this is the problem – that they have to get through with half or a third of their income if they are unemployed. These are fates! We want to spare our citizens by acting in a timely manner. If today and here is discussed about pension harmonisation, then it is good, but we realize that this model or process of change is actually found by all experts to be good! Marin, too, recently said: That's a great thing. There is only one problem: Ten years too late! This government has done what the old governments did not do. [[Abg. Gaál: Damage for Austria!]] This government secures the future of our country and its citizens. That, I believe, is an important matter, an important issue to which we should address ourselves. Why do we not discuss the realignment in financial compensation? – Jakob Auerund also President Grillitsch said so aptly that by redistributing the financial resources to the €100 million more money we have also “brought out” to the small communities. Isn't that a step forward? Isn't that an improvement? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These are topics! Not that we say, in slavery: Everything's bad. – Even if the truth lies in the middle, you are still far away. And we'll prove to you that the Grasser budgets are all right. A grassy budget has quality. We have known this for years, and we will show it very clearly to you this time too. I think if you have such an orientation, you need personalities with far-sighted vision, you need individuals who refer to development, and people who are also seriously dealing with all the development processes. I may ask you: Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Rethink your criticism, your rejection! Voices You may have to do with this 2006 budget or at least some areas! I think it's a good budget for the country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11116	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11137	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donabauer, I can assure you that we have great joy in our country and that we also see the future with confidence. [[Abg. Lentsch: But you don't know anything about it!]] I can also tell you, however, that your social barrage and driving policy is what is sad for us and what many people in this country feel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The Minister of Finance begins in his budget speech with a quote from Sir Karl Popper, which reads as follows: “We are now responsible for what is happening in the future!” I think it is, but, Minister of Finance, you have been responsible for this for five years. I believe that a budget debate should also be there to take stock and ask: How are people doing today, five years after your government responsibility? Many say, of course, that the future is today! This balance sheet – I don't want to value it politically at all, but only look at the facts – looks like the following: First: There is an Austrian poverty report that shows that since 2000, under your responsibility of 114,000 people, more are at risk of poverty. This Austrian poverty report shows that 170 000 people are more acutely poor – and these are the consequences of your policy, Minister of Finance! I'm telling you, too. In particular, women, single parents and pensioners are affected by the social kahlschlag. Second fact: There is the income report of the Austrian Court of Auditors, which is also in the house. We were able to read in this income report that the incomes of the Austrians have fallen in the last four years due to your policy, especially dramatically the incomes of women. If, on the basis of your policy, female employees have a minus 2% income in the last four years, while everything else has increased – the rents and other burdens for which you bear the responsibility – if this income report clearly shows that workers in 2000 lost 11 percent, have a minus of 11 percent of income, then it is due to your policy that you have to answer. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who makes the collective contracts?]] – Mrs Colleague, the income losers are women! You've got to do that! Your policy is to blame! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who makes the collective contracts?]] Third fact: Let's look at the pension development! Not only have you made a policy that leads to massive pension reductions, but also the adjustments have always been below the inflation rate. That is, the older generation can afford less year after year in Austria, and that is what you have to answer. – I simply call for more and more respect from this government towards the older generation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fourth point, which is rightly at the heart of the debate today, is the development of the Austrian labour market and the question of how unemployment develops. – 361,000 people in Austria are looking for a job. Its balance sheet looks as follows: We have a 25 percent increase in unemployment over the last five years. And we have the following situation of youth unemployment: 47 000 young people under the age of 25 do not find a job. Do you know that youth unemployment has increased by 57 percent during government responsibility?- Oh, my God! – 57 percent more young people find no work in Austria. That is the balance of your government, and this is embarrassing and despicable, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How do you react to it in the budget? - They don't react at all. There is no money for education, there is no money for investment. With regard to active labour market promotion, Austria is the final European light. Against the background of this unemployment, it is embarrassing to do nothing on the budget for active labour market policy! With our economic programme, we show how it would be better, and I say to you: Austria has also earned a better policy. [[Abg. Donabauer: Where is it?]] In fact, this government can only provide the population with a good service, namely freeing the way for a social, innovative policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11254	The next item is the report by Mr Bösch. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11275	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures, this Federal Government has taken impressive measures in recent years in relation to labour market policy. The other way around, you can see that in red-green Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: We are in Austria!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be in Austria with labour market policy because this Federal Government guarantees that the right measures will be taken in good time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As the chairman of the National Defence Committee, let me briefly address the chapters on military defence, because, my guessed clubman has mentioned this briefly, which, of course, has only taken a very small and modest part in Mr Finanzminister's speech. It is not, of course, Mr Gaál that the military security policy of this Federal Government is exhausted in the purchase of Eurofighters! The accusations you have briefly outlined here have been discussed here in longer debates, and you know very well that the fundamental allegations of independent prosecutors have already been put ad act, and the Court of Auditors has also examined your fundamental accusations and has not been left in substantial areas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government and also our liberals, of course, confess to us in order to ensure airspace surveillance – that is a necessity! You can't get off it if you want to be a state-bearing party. The SPÖ was once on this point, Mr Gaál, and it may be once again. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: When was that?]] We will again have a budget of around €1.8 billion for military defence. It is essentially the same budget that we have available in the current year, i.e. this year. This budget will have to implement the reform of the Austrian federal army. We liberals have taken care – that was also the goal of our efforts in recent weeks – that, in the context of the reform, in the context of the transformation of the federal army, from a large army of mobile services to a small, efficient deployment army, the pillars necessary for this are preserved. This also includes the ability of the Austrian federal army to be active in home protection, i.e. to be available for elementary events such as avalanches, floods and similar, but also to be available in securing the Republic's eastern border – now no longer outside the EU – to the new members of the European Union. That was also the goal of our efforts to shorten the service time! We were and believe that it would have been easier to deal with this problem if one had not been too quick to shorten the service time to these six months, but, following the wisdom, it would have been a little more time to consider and organize it, because for such a task not only money but also staff is necessary. [[Complaints with the liberals]] The same applies to civil service: I also believe that, in the face of a population that is constantly ageing and in which the need for care is becoming more urgent and more urgent, it should be considered before the civil service is surprisingly and too much reduced, who will be able to provide care services in this society in the future. . We liberals have therefore taken action to ensure that both the reduction of military service and the associated reduction of civil service in this form, as they are now carried out, are simply too early, because the foundations are not yet given. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In essence, however, this budget of €1.8 billion, which is scarce but sufficient, will ensure that the Austrian federal army can fulfil its two main tasks, namely safeguarding internal, home affairs, and its international tasks within the framework of the European Union and, above all, within the framework of the new structures that have now been decided and will also be implemented with the new Constitution. We liberals will ensure that the tasks of the Federal Force continue to be fulfilled and that the necessary budget is available, but also that the organization is at all possible. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11349	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11371	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Appreciated guests at the gallery! It seems to me that the Members of the Government have now talked more about the opposition than about the budget. I'm trying to remember now: I do not think that you or we would have promised to sit there with an open mouth at every budget speech in Parliament, to stand or to applause at every speech bubble – that can't be it! Allow me to say a few words about these chapters, which the government always focuses on, namely, education and science. [[Abg. Neudeck: I can find good and bad bad!]] It was interesting, of course, that this morning government parties held Taferln, on which they demand more for education, demand more for health and demand more for research. [[Abg. Neudeck: A government party!]] I'm just wondering: How do you take your confidence and faith from? Have you not read the budget report, the whole number columns? – I think it is pointless to sum up, add, subtracte, divide or declination the numbers for the listeners now on or off. It is striking that the spoken word looks different, but it sounds different from what can be found in the numbers. Everything's more, that's what Grasser says. There is more for research and more for education. How does reality look? I wonder who lives in the ivory tower. Is that the Minister of Finance or are these the universities? Let's take a look at reality. At universities, the number of places of study is reduced because there is no funding. Many universities even try to reduce courses of study, whole studies by 10 to 15 percent, because they can no longer afford it. Do you think they're doing this, taking back benefits because they don't have time to count out loud money? – The reason for this is not rising budgets, which are stagnating to falling budgets. Mr. Grasser is very well aware that priorities should always be measured on the overall budget of the state or on GDP. In terms of gross domestic product, university expenditure has fallen from 1.22 percent to just over 1 percent. The OECD section for universities is 1.6 percent, which is the reality. What happened? – The funds for the large research funds and research funding institutions, FWF, have been reduced. The Academy of Sciences complains that they have missed €22 million last year. What do I hear from Gorbach today? – There is an increase in research funding by 20 million. That's just the money that the Academy of Sciences lacks. Is that a focus? - I don't think so. The clinical additional burden in the medical universities is reduced and has fallen. At the medical university, 10 to 15 percent of the staff, i.e. doctors, are saved. Doesn't that bother anyone? Is this acceptable with focus and profile formation? - I don't think so. Do you know how the costs per capita of a student or a student have developed over the last 30 years? – The expenditure per capita of a student fell by two thirds in Austria. No one says that because you don't like to hear it, but that's it. The number of students, colleague Neugebauer, has almost quadrupled, but the number of caregivers has not even doubled. Something's wrong. It is already said that the Baccalaureate is the regular study of the future. Now I want to hear parents, fathers and mothers. What should their children learn in six semesters? Do they still have opportunities in the labour market, or are they only candidates for the millionquiz with such training? - I think that's fatal. Mr Finanzminister! The great sorcerer Frascati didn't call Karl-Heinz, but he also understood how to pull rabbit out of his cylinder. I'll tell you one thing: One rabbit after another, one speech bubble after another, promises about promises and finally phrases like a detergent advertising cannot arrive at universities and educational institutions. That means, please leave the ivory tower! Look at the shortcomings in research and universities! The Council for Research and Technology, set up by the government, has been appointed by the government, together with the rectors, notes that €600 million is missing only for buildings and renovations at universities. 600 million € cannot be read out in this budget for the next seven or eight years. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We only make the budget for 2006!]] Register that help for the universities costs more than a homepage of the Industrial Association! Perhaps the industrial union could donate something. You'll leave this house, put your cylinder on while the universities pick up the shards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11434	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Brinek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11460	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My previous speaker's speech gives me the opportunity to put something right. To the metaphor that the shards pick up, an adequate one invaded me, but I don't want to go on. Universities are allowed to set priorities, that is what we have allowed them to do with the UG 2002, and they also benefit from it. That means not everyone will offer everything. It's true that the ÖAW is getting more money, by 20 million. With you and me, the works councils were not satisfied with the internal division. So let's call things by name. Further: The IHS has shown that expenditure per student in Austria is good – over the course of the study. If I catch up on the study period, which is overall longer than in the EU average, then we are still in a better place. So let's leave the church in the village! To stay with this metaphor: Please also compare the expenditure on GDP for universities with those countries that also have these trainings, these courses in university rank. Other countries that are learning more university must therefore spend less and more for the university for the school. If we do not compare apples with pears, I have not learned this as a statisticalist, but as an educational researcher. I would like to tell you a few more figures so that it is kept on record. In education, we have a total plus of € 52.8 million. These are composed as follows: According to the federal states, in the school year 2006/2007 we will have about 13 700 less compulsory students and a school year later by another 14 000 students less. . I would like to write this to Mr Brosz, in particular. At the same time, as the Minister has said, we will invest more in the AHS teacher, BHS teacher planning development. I can also mention the figures and the additional priority expenditure here. Afternoon Services: 8 million €, special support for the preservation of small schools and integration measures – depending on which country is investing –: 12 million €. That's a very remarkable sum. I'm telling you the increases for the AHS: There are 27.38 million € more, which is a plus of 2.76 percent. And for the BMHS, it is plus 2.78 percent or € 27.46 million more than in 2005. There is an increase in the number of pupils, so there is also an increase in the budget. Whoever still dreams of a mere naïve, ferment-like continuation, will never be able to read a differentiated budget. This gives me a key to informing colleagues of Broukal from here, too; I have done this about the media: The extension of the balance sheet – I am not an expert either, but as far as we agreed in the previous year – is a re-booking process. I am therefore only allowed to count the retired officials at the university once. And if I do, I have an increase of €9 million in the university budget alone. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please do not blam ourselves by giving up the calculation skills for the sake of ideology! Ladies and gentlemen! A few more corrections on research. I would like to repeat what Mr Finanzminister said in the morning. In recent years, it has succeeded to spend € 10.1 billion – please let it break on the tongue or in the ear canal – for research and development. That's a plus by 34 percent. And if I hear that for further measures, not in the sense of the old casting can, but in the sense of focusing and in the sense of further, additional investments for further projects, money has been debated, sums have been debated and put into perspective, then that calms me down. For a long time you can no longer work linearly in the classical administration and have to start projects, you have to work discreetly, you need to develop discreet projects. This must certainly be done in the fields of university, education, science and research. To conclude: Mr Broukal asked: What will happen from 1st. September 2006 in schools different? – For example, if Vienna starts something reasonable, i.e. takes integration and funding seriously, then it will improve in schools, especially in public schools. Taferl classics, as recently noted by the directors, 44 percent are not able to take the necessary German to follow the class. What's going to be better? – He agreed to the promotion of the good. – Yes, if we stick to maintaining the Austrian well-differentised school system, then the good will be promoted! This had to be done recently at a SPÖ event in the 19th century. District hearing. Yes, it will be better if the 10 000 places offered by the minister are also called up. Yes, it will be better if the administrative tasks of the countries – and as we look at the individual federal states – for the school sector are also reduced to an international level in an informal advance information of the IHS. So we have work enough. But let's read things seriously, and we're not running ideology criticism at the expense of arithmetic! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11538	Mr Eßl spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the rules: 2 minutes of speaking time; first of all the circumstances to be corrected, then the correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11562	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grünewald has claimed that the ÖVP members held Taferl in the morning, where they demand more for the environment, more for education and more for research. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: That's right!]] - That's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Yes, unfortunately!]] [[Abg. Reheis: Unfortunately!]] The fact is that the ÖVP delegates have shown Taferl this morning, which they have pointed out that more is foreseen for these areas in the 2006 budget. – So it is not a requirement, but a finding that this is already fulfilled!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11644	Next, Mr Magistrate. Moser to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11666	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Last year they had the motto for the 2005 budget: ‘Resurrection by discharge’. – Where is this upswing? We must ask this question: Where is this upswing? – This is actually a “waiting for Godot”: He's not coming. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: 2 percent growth!]] – If you call growth of 2 per cent a recovery, I also understand your “economic success”. Instead of an upsurge, we have a record unemployment, which has been discussed very often today Almost 400 000 Austrians have no work. [[Abg. Lens: But there are more people at work!]] That's what you call upswing?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Wittauer: Most jobs!]] As a second point, we have a record insolvency statistics. That's what you call the upswing. – This is not economically comprehensible. [[Abg. Wittauer: Most jobs, deputies!]] And we also have a record per capita debt. – You bothered us for a very long time yesterday with series from 1999 to 2006. In 1999, each Austrian and every Austrian had a debt of €16,625. Do you know how high she'll be next year? – Every Austrian will then have 20 000 € in debt! – This is your policy, and you are also responsible, Minister. [[Abg. Wittauer: Unbelievable that this can be said by a Social Democratic who has left us so many debts!]] What is the motto for 2006? – The motto for 2006 is: “Create work – win the future!” I have read the budget speech very carefully. I have found no indication of how many new jobs They will be created through this 2006 budget. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner:... but the economy!]] This number would be very interesting, Minister. Tell us that if you choose this motto, then we can orientate and see if you have complied with it or not. Interestingly, you are also trying to do site studies in which Austria is very well represented – that is your right. This is the so-called Contor study. The owner of this company is a real estate company or a construction company, and Austria is compared to Estonia, Poland, Ireland and the Czech Republic in the top position. From my point of view, this comparison alone shows where it leads in this area. What is reality, Mr. Minister? – If this were the case, if we were such a super-location, then the settlement boom you announced would have to be a reality, which you announced here in autumn. I looked at the numbers: In 2000, the Austrian Business Agency established 132 projects. And do you know how many they were last year? – It was 107. And the dramatically in this context is that there has been a dramatic reduction in jobs and investment volumes compared to the number of 2003. – So something is blown up here, which is not true. If you look at the funding measures in the budget, you can see that they remain the same for industry and for the labour market, but for agriculture they are rising very much. Why do I try to establish this connection? [[Abg. Grossruck: Do you want to kill the farmers? – If you want to, tell me! Tell me you want to kill agriculture! Tell me you don't need agriculture! – That’s easy!]] – You are always talking about great economic freedom, and then you take an area that is highly subsidized, promoted, and that is also included in your statements. 55 percent of total monetary support goes to Austrian agriculture! [[Call the ÖVP: That's good, the money!]] You said a very remarkable sentence yesterday, in my opinion, that you spoke of “Austro-Capitalism”. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I quoted it!]] – You quoted it, yes, you took it into your mouth – now I ask the Christian-socials of the ÖVP: How is this compatible with the eco-social market economy of the ÖVP? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: This is a quote from the German “manager magazine”!]] That would interest me very, very much! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: This is a quote from the German “manager magazine”!]] It may be, Minister. But think about it! Or is Grasser already permanently decoupling from the ÖVP economic model here? [[Abg. Don't worry!]] You mentioned a second point yesterday: They have often used the concept of economic freedom. I would like to point out something: In the Wallstreet Journal Index of Economic Freedom 2005, Austria ranks on 19. Job. And the interesting thing is that this index, this economic freedom, has significantly deteriorated since 2000 to 2005. Now, however, you are in favour of this economic freedom. So the external assessment of your policy comes to a different result than you yourself want to make it known to us here. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grass]] – I would look very closely at this study in your place and then draw the conclusions for your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11854	Next is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11876	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Moser, I am quite tired of the disease that is taking place on the part of the SPÖ, especially when it comes to debt. With your party, with your finance ministers you have really had long enough time to show how to do good financial policy – and you have shown it with the debt you left us. This mountain has to be dismantled now. Maybe they weren't. You personally, but it was your party, Mr. Colleague. That's why I'm sick of the SPÖ, too. If you heard your colleague Silhavy in the morning, you know she said: More debt than a unemployed apprentice! – You now criticize here and say the per capita debt is so high! - What do you want now? Do you want to make more debts now or less unemployed? You can't disagree with your speech messages in the morning and in the afternoon. You should be better consistent within your group. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Moser:..., this is no contradiction!]] Mr President, it is a contradiction if you say that there must be no such high per capita debt, and your colleague says in the early days that there should be a quiet increase in debt. This is a contradiction you have to take note of if you can expect. – In this respect, this disease is certainly not in place here, because it is a positive future for Austria. Mr Broukal is now chosen by his party to give it more profile in the fields of education and science, or to sharpen this profile. It is interesting that he is there only at the time of television and then, when it comes to this topic, is not here. [[Abg. Großruck: Is it good that he is there anyway, because the people are excited about him! Yeah, yeah, he's sitting there chewing gum!]] He just knows how important television is because he comes out of this area, and now he's lucky to be able to use this television time too. But for us, for me – because he has addressed me as a committee chairman – and Mr Amon, it is important to work also during the rest of the time, to work properly in the committee and then to work when there is no time for television and not to see television and the citizens that we have done a lot for the people in the field of science and education and have done a lot in this budget for this area. In the field of education and culture, expenditure has increased, we are doing more here! In the field of science, Mr Green Forest, there may not be any more money, but it is now important for the universities that they finally bring together and learn the restructuring and the problems that exist, not always when a little bit of money is missing: This must now be paid by the state!, and, like everyone else in the private sector, to answer for themselves the question: Where can I get this money, where can I switch, where can I save, so I can spend more elsewhere? This is the learning process in which the universities are now. It is now true that there are restructuring problems which are currently in place. On the way to autonomy there is apparently a great learning process to go through. But this brings self-reliance, self-reliance and self-responsibility for the budget, that one learns to do well in this area. In the field of research – which I also mention, because it is also part of my field – we have done much more in recent years with a finance minister under the Black and Blue Government. We will continue to do so in 2006 and will continue to do so by 2010 in order to achieve the common objective, the 3 percent of GDP. I think you're all here for us to go this way together, and we say: You can, if you want to, sicken everything on the part of the opposition, we are working on the positive future for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11938	Next, Mr. Dr. I want to speak on behalf of the Group of Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11964	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last budget debate half a year ago, I quoted Mr Broukal, who at the time criticized that you, Minister of Finance, had only seven sentences in your speech for science, and I then joined and said: For culture it was only two sentences, and they were wrong! Today, Mr Broukal has criticised the fact that only one sentence has become out of these seven sentences for science, and I can of course join it again, because there is not even a word for culture, it is just an additive – “cultural” – which sometimes happens in between and actually has nothing to do with the budget. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: We need more money for education and culture, I said! – This has been a substantial one!]] Your Taferls on the part of the ÖVP – no matter if you want more for the culture or if more for the culture – have been missing. There is no single board on culture, and that actually says everything about the importance you place on culture. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because we have them!]] I'm sure I'm not going to start a cultural pity now, we don't have to. [[Abg. Zweytick: We live the culture!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: We got her!]] You are right, you have the culture, it always depends on what you understand, because you can't be cultureless at all. But they have something like a jux and representation culture, which we have seen last year at the additional budgets for the anniversary year. And this year, that is, for the year 2006, there is a shift: There is a 0.7 percent increase – that is, significantly below the inflation rate – and what will this be spent on? – For the Baroque Mozart year! Fine. That's where we have money for self-simulations and embarrassments in this year. They know that Director Lorenz of the ORF, 3sat-chef, together with the head of the Bundestheater-Holding, is financing such fun things as “rebuilding menus” – with less than 900 calories being offered in great restaurants, such as in the “Sacher” or in the “Three Husars” – in order to remember that even during the post-war period less than 900 calories had to be found. These are so frivolous-zynical jux-and-tollry stories, which are not then presented like that, but that's what it says: This will promote dialogue in the country and in Europe. And there is an occasion every year for anniversaries, also next year: there is Mozart. It is sometimes 50 years, then 100 years, then 250 years – and it is always the money from the field of culture and art that is used to look back, and not for the current activities. From the art budget we will now come to the cultural budget. There is nothing going to be increased at all, because it is only going to be reworked, and this retransformation is very interesting, because this money is spent on the safety of the museums: well, clearly, because you say that the cultural goods are very valuable to you and that such things as the theft of the “Saliera” should no longer happen. Well, I'd like to say something about this: It is not because of security measures, but because of your completely false policy of exclusion that this “saliera” has disappeared. [[Abg. Grandruck: Oh, that's it!]] This false policy of dissemination results in a similar scandal almost every week – I do not need to come back to all these “hare things” you read daily in the newspapers. [[Abg. Großruck: You're a little adventurer!]] I also predicted that half a year ago, when I called for the resignation of the director Seizel, it will continue to do so, and I now predict that if something systematic is not changed in this way, it will continue to go on. There is no point in investing more money in security and locks. I would like to give you an example: In 2002, in addition to the scaffolding which was attached to the Museum of Art History, the thieves who had stolen the “Saliera” have also been attached to the Museum of Art History, and this had nothing to do with the restorations, but was merely the support of an ÖVP-Plakat, and the experts have then pointed out that this scaffolding could have been done just as well. You will also save the Republic money for additional security locks if you focus better on the care and value of cultural goods in so far as you rethink the distribution and the lawfulness and develop better laws for them. [[Abg. Grandruck: The imagination...! ... that a scaffolding stands at the Art History Museum, that's his contribution!]] Then you can also quote the “FAZ” and the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” and the Spanish newspapers and the Mexican newspapers, all of us in Austria sloppy in dealing not with the Austrian cultural heritage but with the World Heritage Site. And that is what you want to represent as a good cultural and art policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12083	Next, Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this: I'll give you three minutes' speaking time now. [[Abg. May. Hakl: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Then I quit!]] All right, you'll end on time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12120	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! We have talked about research, and I find it remarkable that no one has admitted from the opposition that in absolute terms we have increased the research expenditure of the federal government, the state by 40 percent. 40 per cent, that's almost half, that's nothing that you can just wink away in no time! 40 percent since 1999 – this is also something we, I believe, can be proud of together. The question you have to ask yourself is: Why is it this federal government and all of us so important that we actually use more money for research and innovation than before? – When we look at international development, we see that in the future there will be jobs and thus a functioning state mechanism, the preservation of social systems for us in a well-trained, rich Central Europe, especially where companies with new, innovative products can see opportunities in other parts of the world and companies can increase their export quotas. Because to rely only on domestic demand in a country where almost everyone already has almost everything and where it is discussed whether or not someone without a DVD player already falls below the poverty line would, I believe, be too short. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Grünewald, you have said today about the budgets for research and development that it is a ridiculous contribution, the funds for research and development. Development to raise € 20 million in an additional action programme from € 200 million to € 220 million. I would like to mention that this is by far not all the research resources available to us, nor all the resources available directly to basic research! The research funding company alone grants €352 million each year directly to small and medium-sized enterprises. Last year and this year, €352 million was spent by the FFG for K-plus centres, for grants to the EU funding framework programmes and for direct bottom-up research. 72 percent of all applications were actually eligible. Therefore, according to the management, all applications that were truly eligible for funding could be taken into account and made available. In addition, we have created fiscal frameworks that also allow small and medium-sized enterprises to make a contribution. We're much better than you represent us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12168	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the first reading of the 2006 budget, so that the required debate on a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:00]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, to the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology concerning Tempo 160 as a symbol of the continued transport and environmental failure of FPÖ and ÖVP (2718/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12198	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 2718/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12418	I give the floor to Mrs Glawischnig as the first questioner to justify the urgent question. Your speech shall not exceed 20 minutes in accordance with paragraph 93(5) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig stays in your place.]] Madam President, you are the first to have the floor as the first speaker. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Business treatment!]] Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12455	Madam President. The urgent question is addressed to the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, and of course it would be highly appropriate if He'd be here physically. I hear he's on his way. Maybe we can wait one, two minutes until he comes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12488	Mr. Klubobmann! The Minister is fully represented by his State Secretary. That's in the Constitution. We can't wait, we have to start at 3:00. That has never been the case. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Brosz: Business treatment!]] Once again to business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12519	Mr President. I would then like to ask the Minister for Transport to take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12544	I shall vote on this request immediately. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign on this matter. - That's not the majority. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] The application is rejected. [[At this moment, Vice-Chancellor Gorbach enters the meeting room and takes place on the government bank.]] – In the meantime, Mr. Vice-Chancellor is here. [[Lively condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now I'm asking that we can start treating the urgent request. Mrs Glavischnig, I give the floor to you. You know the Rules of Procedure: 20 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12605	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! The liberals are obviously very pleased to see their minister again. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] . We have tabled this urgent question today, Minister of Transport, because you have made a proposal to the public in mid-January, which is fundamentally contrary to every road safety and environmental logic, namely 160 km/h, at least trying to introduce it on certain motorways. There were then some very well-founded factual opinions, but they were all negative. They wanted to have a serious debate on this. I think those who have actually missed a serious debate were mainly the colleagues of your own group. I would like to quote a few suggestions and a few comments. Franz Schwager, the FPÖ spokesperson from Carinthia, says: “There are many reasons to call the introduction of a speed limit of 160 km/h on motorways well.” He justified this with the words: ‘There has been no increase in the speed limit since the 1970s.’ In the meantime, “the majority of motor vehicles are equipped with power steering, ABS and, above all, airbag. ” I wonder what an argument this is! Tempo limits are not something that has to be adjusted, like the inflation rate or the wages in certain periods of time, but speed limits depend primarily on the human ability to react and the ability to control a vehicle, and that, I think, has changed zero since the 1970s to the present day. Evolution is not that fast. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Max Walch, FPÖ, meant: “I welcome the proposal made by Transport Minister Hubert Gorbach to increase the speed limit on the motorways to 160 km/h. I don't think that this increases the number of accidents. Most of the drivers are reasonable enough to adjust the speed to the traffic situation.” [[Demonstrative applause and bravoruf des Abg. Walch.]] You know what happened yesterday: a terrible accident! Here it says “In the fog unblemished into death, ”“ Raser ignores warnings and blue light. ” [[Keeping a newspaper page in height]] There were two dead, eleven injured – that's shocking! – despite warnings and calls for speed to fall. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: This has nothing to do with it! It is insanity to link a fog accident with it!]] Mr Walch, do you think that the increase in the speed limit does not increase the number of accidents? That contradicts any logic. We have tried to have an objective discussion about this, and we have had a study prepared, and I would like to quote a few remarkable details from this one now. It is fascinating how the laws of physics and science work in traffic. It must not be forgotten, above all, which forces have an effect on one – even if you have the foot at the gas pedal. A few figures on this: Minister Gorbach, imagine, you're on the motorway with 160, I'm going next to you with 130. We both sit in a vehicle, I sit in a small vehicle, you also in a small vehicle, in a economical, ecological vehicle. 125 meters before us, an obstacle appears. I'm starting to slow down. They're starting to slow down. I make it possible to stand at 130 km/h in front of the obstacle. You stand by this obstacle – and now I want to ask you if you know at what speed You're driving now: Do you drive at 30 km/h, 60 km/h or more km/h? [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not a driver's license test!]] Not to ignore the laws of physics when you have the foot on the gas pedal, which is very important. You must never ignore the laws of physics's logic! They stand in front of this obstacle at a speed of 100 km/h and blow into this obstacle at 100 km/h. If you drive 100 km/h into an obstacle, you will not survive. [[Abg. Neudeck: Now don't say you wish that to the vice chancellor!]] At 130 km/h you are facing this obstacle. Second, the change is dramatic. It's in exponential curves. Other examples, which are very interesting, in terms of noise generation: A vehicle with 160 km/h causes exactly the same noise as two cars with 130 km/h. By the way: This has been discussed internationally for a long time. There is actually nowhere in Europe – except in Germany – higher speed limits than with us. It's also very interesting historically – I didn't know it so well anymore; I was only four or five years old at that time –: Before 1973/74, i.e. before tempo limits were introduced in Austria, there were almost 3,000 road fatalities on the Austrian roads. I would like to stress: almost 3,000 road fatalities! Following the introduction of the 130 speed limit on the motorway and 100 on freeway roads, the number of road fatalities has fallen dramatically within a very short period of time, i.e. to less than 2,000 fatalities. Countries that have increased speed limits, such as the USA's speed limits on Interstate Highways, have an increase in traffic deaths of more than 20 percent. Switzerland, which has gone a different way, namely to reduce the limits from 130 km/h to 120 km/h, could be 10 per cent or 12 per cent in order to be precise, reducing the number of road fatalities. This would mean less than a hundred road deaths in us. So, Mr Walch, are you still saying that you do not believe that the speed is in any connection with the accident figures?- Oh, my God! We have commissioned a study, and the results are actually very clear, very dramatic. There is a risk of injury, an accident risk and, above all, a risk of a fatal accident, which is 77 percent above that on a normal track. In the case of “dead accident, ” it is even more than 116 percent, a doubling. This would mean at least five additional road fatalities per year, at least 50 additional accidents with personal injury and about 120 additional injuries in Austria. This is a dramatic balance, which one should not risk seeing eyes. Now I ask you: Who actually wants to drive 160 km/h and why even? [[Deputies Neudeck, Bucher and Fauland raise their hands.]] There are now several of them. You may believe in time savings. I don't know. But is it worth it for, in the ideal case, saying and writing 10 minutes time savings on the route from Vienna to Salzburg to risk additional human lives, additional injuries, additional torn apart families? I'll tell you: You win 10 minutes in the ideal case. If you drive from Vienna at 160 km/h and drive through to Salzburg at this speed, you win in normal conditions, such as local speed limits, acceleration time, because you also have to give gas, less the time you need for wet track and darkness, if 160 km/h is not possible, and less time loss due to traffic load – what do you appreciate? - Half a minute. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are we here at the million show? Then I want the audience joker!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: The Assinger is better!]] For this half minute are you ready to take all these consequences into account? I think each of us knows families where a family member has been killed by a traffic accident. I think you just can't answer that. Any measure that is worsening transport safety in Austria must be rejected, Minister! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] There are still some interesting data, except for this alleged time gain. The study authors compared this quite cynically: On average, if you were to convert this to the entire Austrian lifetime, it would be more efficient and useful to use velcro fasteners in shoes instead of belts. This brings more time savings to the Austrians than speed 160 on motorways. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] I now come to the economic aspect, to the economic aspect. – I don’t think I need to predict that additional traffic fatalities and additional traffic injuries are also an economic burden for the economy – with all the tragedy that this does in the families. You also need to take into account that precisely on those routes on which you want to introduce the speed limit 160, namely on the three-track expansions around the large cities, i.e. in the suburban area, there are also very many settlements, people, and that there is therefore a need to strengthen the noise protection measures that are inadequate for that. According to the study we have commissioned, this would mean up to €30 million for additional noise protection measures that would be necessary due to the increased noise pollution. So there would be not only additional accident costs, but also additional costs for noise protection measures, because the Austrian motorways are from conception, from the entire plant to speed 130. So I'd think about it in your place. I am still wondering how you are logically or comprehensiblely justifying that, despite vehemently objective votes against, despite profound criticism from many sides, you are maintaining your proposal. We would like a clear statement from you today! They demand speed 160 and can introduce this by regulation, with a dash in Austria, you can enforce it, on your own, Minister of Transport. Now I want to know about you: Is that what you're gonna do? If so, why? Tell us when, too! If you say no now, I hope that this will also apply to the post-election period, the unfortunate case should occur and you should continue to be Transport Minister. There is also the coalition partner ÖVP, and two years ago he noticed with the Styrian ÖVP Klubobmann, who had already called for Tempo 160. Tempo 160 also calls for the ÖVP State Secretary Kukacka and Transport Spokesman Miedl, as well as these two politicians want Tempo 160. I would also like to make a clear statement from you, Mr State Secretary: Do you really want that? If so, why? Will you enforce that? How do you explain to families and people who fear that there will be additional accidents, additional deaths and additional injuries? I come to another point, namely environmental policy, which in the background also plays a role. You too, Minister of Transport Gorbach, are now bound to Kyoto. Not only Europe, all economic ministers, the European Union, but you are also bound to Kyoto. The transport sector is one of the worst in terms of CO2 emissions and their increase. The transport sector is also one of the worst in terms of air pollution, which is a major health burden for children in particular. Keywords: Dieselrust, keyword: Fine dust. These are, in particular, a massive burden for children and older people, especially along motorways. In Salzburg, speed 100 is now prescribed on the Tauern motorway because of the excessive load of CO2 and the health burden for the people living there. Does that matter to you at all? Do you even know what Kyoto is? Do you also know that Kyoto is legally binding by international law? Are you even thinking about what you can do better in the transport sector? Do you also know how much CO2 emissions increase at tempo 160? Does that make any sense to you? Instead of thinking about how to reduce CO2 emissions and what you could do better in the transport sector, think about a measure that would only make the entire disaster with Kyoto in Austria worse. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You have also received very cynical comments from individual newspaper commentators on your suggestions. There was talk of “fashing policy” and of the fact that this is a mere distraction, because there are a lot of problems in the transport sector and because many people in the transport sector would have received jobs, so there would be a blue mail chess. They did this to push it into the background. All of this would be a pure tactical maneuver. We have actually taken your proposal seriously, and I would like a clear answer from you today to the question: Will you do that, or won't you? Will you, contrary to all the signals, all studies, all really well-founded counterarguments, introduce speed 160 on certain motorway routes? What are the consequences of all these studies? What consequence does it have for you that there will be at least 50 additional injuries, at least five additional traffic fatalities? This is fundamentally contrary to what you always say, namely that every road fatality, every serious injury, every injured person and every injured person is one or one too much. You yourself have drawn up a road safety programme where you aim to halve the number of traffic victims. This is fundamentally contrary to your proposal. What consequences do you personally draw from this? What does it mean for you that the self-responsibilities of such accidents as those of yesterday are massively questioned? [[Abg. Großruck: This has nothing to do with this point! Take note of this!]] It is not about doing something with yourself, but about traffic is something where we need to take massive consideration of others in an organized way. Most of the traffic victims are not those who drove 160. What are the consequences of such behavior? What are the consequences of the additional burden on the economy? How do you justify the 25 million, 30 million more for noise protection measures? If you doubt our study results, I would be interested if You might have made one yourself. Perhaps you have already examined yourself or had it examined in a professional way, which actually means speed 160 for road safety. If you haven't done such a study yet, I'll ask you: Why haven't you been commissioned yet? Will you do it? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] What consequences do you draw from the worrying studies, especially those of the World Health Organization, which in Austria compared to other countries have found that in Austria we have numerous deaths and numerous asthma diseases in children solely due to the air pollutants that come from transport. What you say about this – you have, I think, even children, if I am not mistaken – is that this is actually something you could change, and you don't do it and you're provoking that children get sick in addition because you're not able to order diesel particulate filters for trucks, for example. They can continue to emit diesel soot, which continues to make additional children sick year after year and remain sick for many years. How can you answer that? You responded very insulted yesterday when our transport spokesperson Gabi Moser said that she did not lose your commitment to the children. I can't take it from you either, because the facts speak a different language. If that only meant anything to you, you would also act according to your words that every sick child is too much. You would have the opportunity to change that. Why don't you do it? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also stick to the plan if the affected states, such as Upper Austria, resist with their hands and feet. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You don't have to drive 160! That's a kan destination!]] Upper Austria has explained very, very well that in the past speed limits have actually reached a trend change in the dead, and they are also pointing out that this would lead to massive noise pollution, especially in their area, in the case of above Austrian settlements around the three-track motorways. Will you just cross this federal state and just order it over there? Or will you take seriously such concerns that have been expressed formally by a national government decision? What do you say about the fact that there is also a FPÖ Transport Council, Mr Schöggl, who is clearly opposed to speed 160? Do you think this is unreasonable? How do you rate this attitude? There are many serious problems in the transport sector. There is too little financial resources for the expansion of railway infrastructure. We have a massive security problem in Austria. We have no uniform penalties throughout Austria. In Austria you can drive drunk cars for two and a half years until you are checked once. We have a massive control deficit in Austria. Why Care You are not concerned about these problems, but are now coming with one – I am now quoting my party leader – “Schnapside im Fasching”? We have seriously tried to disarm it, we have seriously dealt with this idea. I would like clear answers from you today, I would like clear answers from the ÖVP: Will you do that: yes or no? Are you willing to risk all these negative effects, risk all these additional loads – just for a few lawns that, if they have a foot in the gas pedal, just get rid of natural science laws and respect for people and the environment?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12787	In response to the urgent question, Mr. Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, Vice-Chancellor Gorbach, spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12809	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to apologize at the beginning of my remarks for not being able to be here exactly at 3 p.m. That has a good reason: I discussed important transport issues for our federal capital with mayor and head of state Dr. Häupl and city councillor Schicker. It was about the Danube crossing in the Lobau area – a subject that also concerns and interests your group – as you may have already seen the media, and it was also about the “Bahn station Vienna – Europa Mitte” – two major, important issues for transport policy, which we have not only prepared well, but also discussed very well today, so that in principle we could reach agreement; It may also be a little bit because we were already under a special pressure. I had the intention of personally participating in this important discussion here. I've already given you a keyword. Debates of the European Parliament I am sorry to see you disappointed, Mrs Glavischnig! If you ask me – and you have repeated this several times now – always to ask clear answers, yes or no, then you can have them on many topics – but at the right time! I have started this discussion as such very conscious, because it is a very sensitive issue, which I also deal with very sensitively. To pre-empt it: I'm not going to break anything about my knees, either, and I'm not going to throw the child out with the bath, because I'm glad that at least some of the discussions are going to take place, in which experts, experts, practitioners, and then, hopefully, at the end of this discussion, we're also going to make the right decision. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As simple as you put it, if you say: You can arrange this with a dash, and then stop at 160 km/h in Austria!, it is first not, and second: If it were, I would not do so as a responsible politician, who has made road safety the focus of his transport policy and will continue to do so. I take this issue very seriously. But you have now enabled me to take a public view on this very important issue in transport policy, and I thank you for that. I would like to stress once again that road safety will continue to be the subject. They themselves addressed the transport safety programme by 2010. I have already said yesterday that this has also received great international recognition and attention, and of course it will continue to be the basis of our transport policy. The aim of this government and my personal policy in this area is to clarify “Tempo 160” as a concept for the phenomenon of target-oriented speed limits, as an element to be discussed. [[Abg. Ollinger: That must not be true!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Target-oriented speed limits?]] Yes, it is the goal to discuss and understand speed limits oriented. I hope you understood me yesterday, when I said, commandments and bans – almost everywhere, in road traffic – will become most effective when they find acceptance when they are understood by the person concerned. This is also very important to me on this issue. Equally or even more important are all other measures to increase road safety, which I would like to stress, which have already been put under my management and which I would like to remind you once again; I mentioned them in the context of the debate on the priority system yesterday. It is precisely this that the first priority system as such, the youngest child on road safety, was only decided yesterday. I am very glad that it is a joyous day of Austria's transport safety policy. Potential as you know: up to 75 dead less per year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Next point: Awareness-building through targeted campaigns, intrusive commercials, in particular against alcohol and drug abuse on the tax and the use of safety belts. That too is a very positive thing. Next point: Safety actions related to private undertakings, Transport Safety Charter. Next point: Exchange of aluminium rails – a diverse programme, 1 700 kilometers of main rails are exchanged, investment: 214 million € to convey a sense of this even once. Another point is the safety of the tunnels: second tubes through Katschberg and Tauern, which we have approached with Elan and approach, Amberg Tunnel, Roppener Tunnel, Bosrucktunnel or whatever. Even since in the high-level road network, it is important to increase safety, avoid congestion, serve safety and also the environment, because there can be no more stop-and-go traffic with strong pollution emissions to increase construction site safety. I am glad that last year, for the first time in the construction site area on high-level road network, the dead were no longer reported, because we have improved the provisions there very specifically towards safety, even with enormous material effort. Transport impact systems – also a project in the order of € 260 million, which, as I explained yesterday, will be launched in April with the opening of the first section in Tyrol. Introduction of the “section control” – also an important thing to increase safety; works wonderfully. The multi-phase driver's license would still be mentioned, as would the introduction of mandatory drug tests and alcohol precursors, and, finally, the accident investigation law should also contribute on a legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen! You see, the road safety is and remains the highest premise of this federal government and is and remains my personal concern. It is never good if, in public discussions, one refers to the saying too much, but to what you meant, Mrs Glavischnig, I must say: It really affects me, if someone – with whom I like to discuss matters myself – accuses me of hurt or even dead children, I don't care about them, so to speak. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] That affected me yesterday and that is why – yes – I spoke about it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The accusation is immense!]] I repeat: For ten years, I worked as a building representative in my home country, and I was known for the fact that I had very much in mind the weak road users and the children when it was important not only to show improvement opportunities but also to implement them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Where is the problem with speed limits? – We all know from our own experience, from our environment, that in addition to the question of objective necessity – which is of course undisputed – we also have a subjective side, namely the driver who is subject to the standard or the driver who is subject to the standard, who must also carry this need out for his or her understanding, because otherwise he or she does not comply with it despite the command or ban. - That's a fact! From time to time, one simply has to leave one's eyes open and let it not be closed to reality, and from time to time one has to turn on the so-called house mind in addition to the many opinions of the experts, which are already important as a basis of decision, or at least not completely shut down and then proceed politically and deal with one thing quite emotionally and soberly. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, that's true!]] [[Abg. Oils: There it is already dangerous! That with the house mind can go into the eye!]] This insight, precisely the insight into speed limits, is currently given only very conditionally, as the multitude of traffic offences proves because of speed crossings, and you know that too. That is why it is necessary, in general, through a variety of measures, as already implemented, in particular to enhance acceptance and understanding of necessary regulations, and at the same time – and this is particularly important to me – to strengthen self-responsibility. It is therefore clear that, for example, countries, including the ASFINAG, are also planning temporary speed restrictions, such as in the area of construction sites where there are always very many accidents, in such a way that more controls and thus greater road safety are carried out in real places, while in the case of construction activities already completed on weekends, the speed limits will be checked for their need. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to have a wide-ranging discussion involving practitioners, involving experts on the objective and subjective importance of speed limits. Of course, this process, as I believe, cannot simply eliminate and ignore the question of the maximum limit of 130 km/h currently on motorways, especially if in other countries – we are always talking about globalisation and Europe-wide thinking – such as in Germany, in a neighbouring country, there are other regulations that are known to drivers across Europe and are carried by them with high acceptance. [[Abg. Oils: This is the only country!]] In Germany, as you know, speed limits are more conscious and effective where they are necessary for reasons of road safety. However, it must be natural to discuss, in parallel with a possible increase in the rate limit on certain sections and, under certain conditions, an increase in the level of criminal tolerance. Therefore, an approach to existing higher speed limits – in addition to Germany, Italy has already made 150 km/h possible on selected sections of the motorway by law – would only be accompanied by consistent and efficient control. I have already mentioned the section control, which has proved itself very successful. Thus, if speed 160 is allowed on a pilot track and it is also monitored by means of "section control", it can be ensured that the driver's license withdrawal – which was also the subject of discussion yesterday – takes place at 180 km/h. The tolerance is not from 130 to 180 km/h, but only from 160 to 180 km/h. These are accompanying measures, which, of course, I have also considered and in mind, if such a measure is actually implemented or made possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] By the way, it is also not right as you write in the preamble of your request that the average speed of “section control” is only measured so that someone can drive 200 km/h, then reduce to 120 km/h and then on average have the right speed to pass without penalty. Of course, we are so smart to recognize this, and have therefore also allowed the possibility of punctual radar measurement to flow in. So if someone travels 170 km/h, but reaches the right average speed, he still gets a corresponding penalty. That is exactly what it is supposed to do, that one should drive quickly, then slowly again, which by the way, by the way, would be anything other than service. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Tell me something to ask!]] I would like to make it clear that “section control” in a very critical area at Semmering only 0.5 percent of road users did not comply with the required speed, with around 50,000 vehicles per day. – A good example, as I mean. That is, disciplined driving behaviour of road users is the result, and we want to do so at last. No one is supposed to fry or undiscipline, uncontrolled on Austria's high-ranking road network through the area. The section control in the Kaisermühlentunnel section also shows the transport safety promotion effect. For example, since its start in spring last year, there has been no more any fatal accident in this section. – A good balance sheet, and this should be mentioned in this context and in this discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Question 1!]] Mrs Glavischnig! I would like to make it clear that it is already in the case of particularly dangerous driving behaviour – keyword: Pushing – even below the existing tolerance limits can give a driver's license withdrawal. This must also apply to the pilot experiment. In addition to the above mentioned section control, the sections concerned will therefore be particularly strictly controlled from this point of view. On the VCÖ study that you quoted, which I received only yesterday, I have the opportunity, after a first review, to find out the following: This study will of course also play a role in assessing and consulting on this important subject. It will, of course, be fully analysed, studied and its results will be incorporated into the decision-making bases. But you will also understand that I am not taking a study as a measure of all things and then say it is not going to happen, but we are going to question and make various experts speak and then judge in total. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out that we should not now act as if I had asked for 160 km/h as a possibility for the whole of Austria. I have said from the outset that we will discuss this, assess the results in peace and then decide – if you want to, I too, I do not want to be responsible at all. Secondly, This will only be possible on well-developed, special routes; well-developed two-track, but in particular three-track routes. Some other conditions will also play a role. For example, I can list these: I have already mentioned the structural conditions, so well developed, two-tracked or even three-tracked as a condition, straight track run, good visibility conditions. Furthermore, flexible speed indicators must be available. I also thought this out loud in connection with the presentation of the traffic impact system. That's an important point. It will not only be possible to achieve an increase in the maximum permitted speed of 130 km/h in good view, optimal road conditions and low traffic levels, but it will also be possible – and I would like to expressly say so – to reduce this maximum speed, for example in the case of fog, in the event of bad vision, in the case of slippery road, in the event of accident situations or similar conditions. That is, I assumed if I reduce down, if it is necessary, I could also open up if it is possible. That is the basic idea of the current situation. Of course, hand-in-hand, as already mentioned, increased controls must also take place. In addition, the handling of higher speeds, for example, should already be an issue for driving licence training, and special courses should also be offered by car clubs. But more specifically on your specific questions, which I would like to answer in the following summary. Questions 1, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 18 can be answered as follows: A general rate of 160 on motorways has never been discussed for me. I have always clearly restricted, as explained in detail, that Tempo 160 can only apply sectorally under particularly favourable conditions. The ultimate objective of my transport policy remains transport safety. That is why, as you have been able to say so far, I am dealing with this subject with a particular care, including my public statements, and I have long ago created a working group dealing with this subject. This working group will also include the results of various studies, including the study you have quoted, as a basis for decision. It is, however, necessary to carry out an investigation procedure for each of the sub-divisions that are specifically considered. I have not yet given concrete consideration to any sub-route! That is said to disprove the rumour that is in there and that there is, there is a route there and there is now being worked because the evil transport minister wants to expand it as a test track. – It's not like that! Before such a division is put into operation, as it were, and before I adopt a regulation, there is a so-called investigation procedure. You know that at the end of this is an opinion by an independent expert. Only then will there be a test track. Again: It will not be a general tempo 160, but a tempo 160 only where it allows traffic safety and other circumstances already mentioned. Regardless of that, however, I would like to mention that the number of accidents and the number of fatalities on motorways is relatively small compared to other lower-ranking roads. For example, the number of accidents on the motorways last year was only 5.3 percent in the first three quarters. There were 1,704 accidents of a total of 31,948 accidents in the high-level road network. For example, the number of deaths was 13.1 percent, 79 out of 602 dead. Dear Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig! If so, you need to discuss the lower areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] But then you will probably suggest to me that, instead of for example, 80 km/h in the open country, we have to go to 60 km/h, where Tempo 100 is, to 70, where 50 is, to 30, and where 30 is, you can't drive at all, or I don't know how to go then, but so similar is your argument. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Tell me why you even want it!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Questions 3, 6, 13 and 19 do not constitute the subject of enforcement within the meaning of Article 52 B-VG. I am willing to present my private opinion or my personal ethical principles in a conversation to which I invite you, but this cannot be the subject of this urgent request and its reply. Questions 2, 5, 7, 15, 16 and 17 I answer as follows: The maximum permissible speed does not mean that it must also be exploited, so it must be driven. In principle, it is left to each motor vehicle driver, to each driver himself, whether he or she uses the maximum permissible speed in Austria to the full extent or not. In the past, the Austrians were increasingly being overregulated. This led to a reduction in relation to individual provisions, because often the meaning of these provisions could not be recognized or understood. [[Abg. Oils: From there the wind blows!]] Tempo 160 is therefore intended to help, reasonably used, to show the driver that under optimal conditions, such as a clear view, broad road, little traffic, a higher speed can be driven, but does not have to be driven. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] At the same time, however, it will also have to accept a reduction in speed in unfavourable conditions, but then understand better. High speed is dangerous everywhere if it is not adapted to the conditions. A higher acceptance of the current speed limits will increase road safety, thus further reducing the number of accidents and victims of accidents. Ladies and gentlemen! I can say at this point that I even think we should start a deregulation program. [[Abg. Oils: Get away with the traffic lights!]] We must stop thinking that we have to regulate every area, everything and every one into the last detail, prescribing, precisely. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The individual's own responsibility is lost, and I don't want to. On the contrary: The individual should be able to decide, on his own responsibility within a certain framework, how fast he is driving, what he is doing and what he is not doing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I answer your questions 20 and 21 as follows: I have not used any general considerations to adjust the speed limit of the speed in practice, nor have I ever been engaged as a braker in the Immission Protection Act Air. Question 22 can be answered in this way: Of course, I continue to insist on my plan to have a serious and broad discussion about increasing the sectoral speed limit in Austria – always, of course, among the aspects that road safety does not suffer and that the drivers in Austria are not stupid or impervious or careless than those in Germany.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13120	We are now going into the debate. No speaker is allowed to speak for more than 10 minutes, each club for a total of 25 minutes. Mr Mandak, she will be called upon after the start of the debate, that is, after Mrs Moser's speech. The first speaker to speak is Dr Gabriela Moser. Speech time: 8 minutes. Then comes the actual correction of Mrs Mandak. Please, Mrs. Moser.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13153	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, what you have commanded us to do today was really a revelation. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, that's right!]] This is a proposal of yours, which is really counter to any transport safety policy. [[Vice Chancellor Gorbach: You say that!]] – Yes, but not only I say that, all the experts say that. That's what it's all about. But you make yourself up and tell us big and wide exactly what you told us yesterday at the point driver's license pre-mark system. Mr. Minister and Vice-President, are you excused? Have you never heard of thematic speech? You're talking about – what's your new word? – target-oriented speed limitation, speed 160 as target-oriented speed limitation. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the topic-related speech applies to everyone!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would suggest to you a topic-oriented discussion, that would be something! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After you have passed by in your long introduction on the subject, you have not answered much of our questions at all. Where are we? Either you have not yet noticed that you are now at home, so to speak, instead of in front of the Arlberg, and that there must be a speech and an answer in Parliament – in a parliamentary discussion on a request, it must definitely be answered in concrete terms. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] There is nothing to do with answering questions 1 to 18 in Bausch and Bow, which does not specifically refer to the question. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are thematic answers!]] For me it is particularly significant, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you have left the topics of fine dust, health pollution, pollution in your reply to your questions completely left. You don't care. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: You have to ask the Minister for the Environment, he is in charge!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I apologise for my statement regarding Vorarlberg; I want to take it back immediately, that was just out of the emotion. Now quite specifically in the subject-matter debate: You have also clearly shown by your presentation that you are very uncertain in your advance regarding speed 160. What you brought was more or less the withdrawal. They have said: no general introduction, no material discussion. [[Interim note of Vice-Cancellor Gorbach]] I know you never wanted her anyway, that's clear. They've always wanted to go through experiments. But I am just reminding you of the experiments you have proposed: Wiener Neudorf – Wiener Neustadt, at Guntramsdorf, an uproar of the population, a cry by the mayor, a resistance that immediately showed itself at your announcement. How do you even want to make an attempt if people are against it? Another test track you mentioned would be between Sattledt and Haid in the Greater Linz area, where it was expanded because there is a high traffic volume. Just as in Lower Austria – the three-track motorway has the meaning and purpose of allowing more traffic to be recorded. If you allow speed 160, then the distances must increase, and then the expansion would be completely counterproductive. That would be, as far as transport policy is concerned, investment losses. [[Abg. Wittauer: Did you not understand, Mrs Moser?]] Not only that the implementation of your tempo 160 proposals would lead to higher accident costs, more economic damage would cause more health damage, due to the fine dust pollution – all of this can be converted into budget figures – no, you're also driving over the arrivings, about the people who are suffering from noise there, about the mayors! In Upper Austria, there is a unanimous decision by the state government, with which one decides against the fact that this state will be the scene of your test efforts towards target-oriented speed limitation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: What does the Kukacka say to Upper Austria?]] This is likely to be the unword of the year. I would just like to make it clear to you once again: I told you – kindly, as I did – that at a press conference, the Tempo 160 proposal just got through your lips, that you didn't think more specifically about it and just had a promise. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Gorbach.]] But no. Today you say that this was a very conscious attempt to start a discussion on road safety now. [[Abg. Oils: Deregulation!]] That's what I'm really asking myself! Traffic safety means driving, taking into account, so to speak, remembering that there is an accident risk – but exactly the opposite is the case at 160 km/h! And if I want to have a road safety discussion, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I will do it like your conservative colleague Jacques Chirac in France. The conservative French government has said at the very start of its government, Jacques Chirac, that the highest objective of the state – Mr Vice-chancler, I say it specifically to you – is the reduction of the customs duty on the road. This was an ambitious announcement, and this one followed an ambitious program: Speed reduction – reduction of speed! – control, criminal efficiency, including the entire organisational handling of the criminal mandates. This has borne fruit, and we should discuss this, Mr Vice-Chancellor. I would have expected this proposal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In France, this paid off within a year! Result: 21 per cent road traffic accidents less; 16 percent accident death. This could be achieved within a year in France – under a conservative government. This should be a European model, which should also be a model for us in Austria – but not a road safety discussion as you call it; I say: Transport safety discussion that you have triggered with your suggestion speed 160 km/h! In this context, I would also like to focus briefly on environmental issues and environmental impacts, a subject that you are seriously neglecting. In Austria we have an exponential increase in the pollutant rate. With an increase in the speed limit by 30 km/h, from 130 to 160 km/h, emissions increase by 47 percent! It's going up massively! Mr Bucher, since we have previously spoken privately from bank to bank: In my opinion, this is above all a question of mentality: Our Federal Government should also work towards a transport safety awareness, so that we take account of it – and that certainly is not achieved by lawns, by being somewhere faster, by overtaking, pushing, in short: with an increased hunting drive so to speak. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Vice-Kanzler, at a pace of 160 km/h, it is going exactly the wrong direction, especially on mentality issues. Remember: In France, awareness-building has been put to work – and thus this success has been achieved. [[Abg. Großruck:...Germany!]] In France there were public commercials, television broadcasts; the media reported on devastating accidents every second day. The deterrence was, as it were, publicly promoted. And what are you doing, Minister of State? – More or less than a lobby about tempo-rasy! I've been a little exaggerated now, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I'm admitting that, but: In such a situation, you have to say that very clearly and very clearly. [[Abg. Großruck: The Joschka Fischer has no joy with this speech!]] I think personally, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you may not have understood that your proposal is a completely false transport mentality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are talking about the goal with this speech!]] But I hope, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that I can find in you a partner for it – and that is why we will hopefully work together – that in Austria there is a real transport mentality, that is, a life-saving one. And this can only be done at less speed. Think, ladies and gentlemen, of Scandinavia, think of the United States, where there is comparatively little traffic on the overland roads and on the motorways; in some cases ten cars may be met in one day. There you could feel that the train is free, so to speak, because you can drive so properly, there is no accident risk, because there is only little traffic. – But this is not the case: In these states, a transport mentality, a transport discipline prevails, where despite the free road, where despite the free road, consideration is given and everyone expects any unforeseen event to force him to a sudden brake maneuver. That is why there are speed limits in these countries, and that is why there are other accident statistics than ours and a reduction in the number of fatalities. Sweden has set itself the goal – I would like to conclude – of zero traffic fatalities. That should also be our goal in our country, Mr Vice-Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13409	Mrs Mandak spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. You know the Rules of Procedure, Madam Members. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13433	Mr President. High house! Mr Gorbach has here claimed that he has conducted important negotiations with Mayor Häupl in the minutes he has come too late. – This statement is incorrect! Rather, it is true that Mr. Vice-Chancellor was already standing at 14.58 a.m. with journalists in the column hall and apparently engaged in public relations on his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13481	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13502	Mr President. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Großruck: “Dear children! ”]] I can only wonder what is being done by some of us here, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of actual corrections to urgent questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Mrs Glawischnig, one thing: The ÖVP will do nothing, will do nothing that would only endanger the safety of people or their health in any way; there we will already be on the hat! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] But I would also like to say to you: It can't be that you always take the word "traffic safety" into your mouth whenever it suits you, but then, when it comes to – as was the case yesterday in the premise system – you decide to do something that is really a milestone in terms of road safety, with many bad statements and excuses not agree with that. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why “spoiled ”?]] This is an attitude that I personally cannot accept very hard! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we of the ÖVP stand for individual mobility, which is an essential pillar of our society. In this context, I recall the restructuring of the Austrian Federal Railways. That was a difficult discussion with God; all of this was not easy. Now we want to tackle the promotion of public passenger transport, which is also part of the mobility issue. Mrs Moser, we are now renewing the roads and motorways of Austria. We have invested millions of euros in noise protection; so much has never been invested! [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Yes, we need less if we don't drive so fast!]] The control rail systems are also being made new. These are things that contribute enormously to road safety. At the same time – and I may mention this too – Mr Pröll, the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, has enforced the addition of bio-spray, which leads to a reduction of 1 million tonnes of pollutants per year. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: We could have it cheaper at less pace!]] Minister for the Environment Pröll also plans to make sprit-saving driving so to speak and vogue. Federal Minister Pröll wants to force this, wants such an attitude to be practically anchored in the minds of the people. However – and this has always been clear to us – freedom in traffic cannot be boundless; we know that for a long time. Of course, consideration must also be given to the impact on the environment and human health. Since you, Mrs Moser, look at me so heartily now, I have to tell you: Since you did not vote in favour of such an important thing yesterday, you are not credible for me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Are you now for or at tempo 160? Tell me something about it now!]] To say here that you are for road safety, but to be against it at every opportunity when we do something, I cannot accept it. Not if you do, Mrs. Glavischnig. You didn't vote with me yesterday either! I'll tell you a few more things where you didn't agree. What was at the safety vest? In the premise system? When driving vehicles under drug influence? Where were you when we decided? Where were you when, in the course of the premise system, we increased the punishment for Alcolenkers and tightened them up? Where were you, Mrs. Moser? [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: I was here and wanted something better! We wanted better!]] We have now decided that the grass will be more penalised in the framework of the pre-eminence system, and we wanted to give a very clear signal. Your consent to all these points has failed! Traffic safety is indivisible – either you are for it or against it, and I do not know you. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: We have made an extra request!]] That's a confusion you're making. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – I have this impression, too. There is a principle, Mrs Moser: Traffic is reality. We, the ÖVP, want to increase mobility where this is possible. However, this is not possible anywhere and does not make sense everywhere. We know that, and that is a principle. But we will have to have a discussion on this. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Why do we have to?]] We don't let anyone forbid this. That is to say, discussions can also make people aware, ladies and gentlemen – you know that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Tell us arguments that speak for 160!]] And because, Mrs Glawischnig, you mentioned yesterday's traffic accident: Every traffic accident with the injured and the dead touches me in secret because I know what that means, what suffering is behind it. But I'm telling you: Perhaps this traffic accident would have an impact system... – Watch out, there is a significant difference. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: There was one!]] [[Vice chancellor Gorbach: Fog warning system!]] That is exactly what I have been waiting for, Mrs Moser, because now it is clear: You don't know each other! A traffic impact facility, as requested by the Minister, would have either prevented this accident or significantly reduced it in its consequences. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: There was an installation!]] A traffic influence system does not say that fog is, but at the same time it would have prescribed and resulted in a speed reduction. That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Sburny: So much for the reason of the people who always conjure you!]] We need as flexible a system as possible. And I tell you, in general cases, these traffic control systems will require a lower pace than 130, which has so far been the case. Mrs Moser! If your arguments are true, you and Mrs Glawischnig will answer me two questions. Then why in Germany is the number of dead and injured on the motorways less than we do? - First question. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Because there's been a point driver's license for seven years!]] Second question: Is there a request from the Greens in Germany to reduce the pace on the motorways? – These are questions from me to you. I don't know anything like that. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is not an argument!]] – This is already an argument, because in Germany they have a relatively good accident development per capita. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Point driver's license!]] We want to go there, yes, we want to go down much further, ladies and gentlemen. But I also expect you to join me, Mrs. Colleague. So we could actually reduce some of the uncertainty of untrained drivers. Transport impact systems are a new technology and include completely new strategies. And I also tell you, in the area of cities, in the vicinity of cities, such as Vienna, Graz or Linz, now speed 100 is prescribed – and of course this will remain so, because of the high traffic density on the one hand and because of the high pollution load on the other. Nobody's thinking about doing otherwise! Mrs Glavischnig, a story has also angered me because, from my point of view, you are also very much manipulating. They quote surveys – you have commissioned such a survey yourself now – and say, from Salzburg to Vienna would only be able to save a few seconds. - Of course! If you're going through it exactly, it's 29 minutes and a number of seconds, so almost half an hour if I were to drive from Salzburg to Vienna at tempo 160 instead of 130. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That can't be!]] That's not okay. That is why we are in favour of a comprehensive discussion. We want to hold this discussion in the sense and interest of road safety in Austria, and we will not be banned. After this discussion, there will be a decision, and we will, of course, take account of the environment and road safety in the first place, whether you are sure of that. Our aim is to manage transport wisely and to find a balance between the legitimate desire for mobility and the burden on people and the environment. Perhaps with these principles there is an answer to your questions. We as ÖVP are in favour.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13815	The next speaker is Mr Eder. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13836	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My two Mr. State Secretary! I may be allowed to say a little more encouraging from my point of view. I am pleased that Mr Mayor Häupl has succeeded in negotiating very important transport projects in negotiations with Mr Vice-Chancellor for Vienna, such as Europe-Bahn station Vienna, Northeast-passage, tunnel solution, railway link Bratislava. And from my point of view, I forgive you for the few minutes, because these are more important things for me than the question of whether you are on time or late by two minutes. It's like I mean, something really went on, and that's very, very pleasing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I come to the issue that we are now discussing and I come back to what Mr Vice-Chancellor said earlier. He said he wanted a wide-ranging discussion on this issue, and I think that's right. Just, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I think the time is a little early. We now have 2005 and, if I have understood you correctly, the conditions to be able to discuss this at all will only be available from 2008/2009, because there is no route yet where, due to the current technical requirements – all the conditions you mentioned – it is possible to drive this speed at all. Of course, I could make a bit of a joke now and say that I could be the first test track for Tempo 160 the line Wiener Neustadt – Vienna, because there's everything there anyway, so there's no one can do anything then, but I think that's not in your mind, but you did mean it differently. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe, however, that this whole discussion is rather a very strong political consideration of Mr Vice-Chancellor. He is a political fox and knows and sees exactly how the Freedom Party the voters run away. Therefore, one can look for some political fields where one hopes to get the vote back, and there would, of course, be Tempo 160, which of course a certain group of people in Austria would like to see as... [[Abg. Oils: There must be speed 250!]] But that's where he has to increase the pace! 160 will probably not be enough. A second argument is also going in this direction. The motorbike rides of medieval men are also to be satisfied, who have a B-Führerschein and are to come relatively easily to an A-Führerschein. Here too, Mr Vice-Chancellor can imagine that examinations would be possible if a driver's license was subsequently acquired. – You can also discuss this! But when I see this in summary, it seems to me as if we were, what newspapers are writing in this way, before soon new elections. Therefore, one tries to discuss the pace 160 until the fall into it now, but the background is missing. It's not necessary at all. I therefore also wonder why the Greens have so vehemently warmed up this issue today. Perhaps one has even done a little bit of this political consideration, because if one had not dealt with the subject today, it would probably have fallen asleep again anyway and the electoral search programme would not have gone on. That's how we're going to have this in the media for a few days now. – What I am already in favour of is that content was argued here, but whether it was politically so well, is another thing. I also believe, however, that the Federal Minister and Vice-Chancellor – and this is one of his main objectives – actually wants to distract. 160 is a super discussion! Wherever you go, people talk about speed. Everyone's driving car, everybody knows what that means. So we are turning away from the real issues of transport policy, which are actually moving us all and about which we should discuss. Much has already been said by my previous speakers. Even Mr Miedl has said something in this respect not quite incorrect in that regard when it comes to road safety. We are all in favour of road safety, as Mr Vice-Chancellor has confirmed. But if we are so for road safety, why don't we think about, for example, winter safety programmes, equipment for trucks that are all right across the highways when it's a little snow, which makes the whole traffic stand up? I think such things should also be considered, and there should be more “early malt” in there than you do at the moment so much at tempo 160. And, ladies and gentlemen, you want to divert from the debacle around the general traffic plan, where absolutely nothing goes on, you want to divert from the organizational and financial disaster at the federal railways, you want to keep the post offices in sufficient number from the inability of the Federal Government to maintain the post offices in Austria. One is for the postal universal service regulation, and others in the government are against it. There are no clear statements, Mr. Federal Minister. I believe that these are issues to which you should find clear and clear words. 160 is a beautiful topic, but that does not solve the real problems of our country. In addition, there are a number of other major and smaller disasters, such as the disputes with ASFINAG management. There the Director-General of ASFINAG is sent to the desert – no one knows why. Or is it related to Europass, where you want to buy here and where Mr President-in-Office did not want to buy or buy as much as you might have discussed and considered with other friends? Or do we talk about the failure of line privatisation in the mailboxes – even there it goes down and above – or about the remote transport reform that we should actually talk about so that people get to work in time in the early days. Today, the West Railway is already running 160, while the South Railway is 60. These are the topics you should of course talk about. Or on consumer issues throughout the East Region transport network: We have had 5 percent price increases there! – Minister of State! We have many, many other issues to discuss here. Let's get back to Tempo 160. – In an opinion, ASFINAG also pointed out the possible damage duty in the event of increased speeds, as the so-called expansion speed of the Austrian motorways was 130. That means if a person drives faster and something happens, who then bears the liability? Do you then carry them, Mr. Minister, the Federation or the ASFINAG? Who's being asked to check out? Ladies and gentlemen! It's not a new thing either, what we're discussing here. Already a year and a half ago, there was once a proposal by the club president of the ÖVP-Stiermark to make 150 an excuse. We took this proposal seriously at the time – it was a little bit of a summer hole, a summer discussion – we also considered about 150 whether it could make sense or not make sense. After mature consideration, of course, we have also concluded that the flexibility of speed limits is an approach in the future. Telematics will make this possible and help with it. But we are not yet so far, so I think this discussion is premature. No one says that one should not and cannot use telematics for greater flexibility in road safety. However, I do not think that we can talk seriously about it before 2008, 2009. The so-called Section Control is an expensive pleasure on itself, ladies and gentlemen, dear! The section control alone already accounts for €250 million for the routes planned up to 2010. Who pays that? – That's what the drivers pay again about their vignette or about the toll you have to pay for. That's what the drivers all pay for themselves. In this context, I already have the economic question. Covering the area, Section Control would cost more than € 1 billion. You have to finance all of this! That's why I think we're far from ready. In my opinion, we should put much more emphasis on road safety, on safety programmes – you also have some in your ministry, we have made some additions – than to entertain us over 160 km/h. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13881	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. 7 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13902	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! To the Greens: ==References== 19th century! It's just that a lot of things are improving. We'll come back to that. Mrs Moser, you always liked to quote Albert Einstein here. Albert Einstein once said that due to technical development the speed of the human brain does not grow at the same speed, if not a thousand times. Mrs Glavischnig, your request or your question proves this. Just think of the beginning of the railways. At the first railway line, which was built, no one could imagine that a train could travel at it faster than at 40 km/h. Today: High-speed trains, you fly to the moon. If you compare today's cars with those of the past, you can see that they have nothing to do with each other. ABS, all-wheel, tires, roads have become better. Then the Minister of Transport is concerned about traffic. If it were for me, I would rather give it the name “Ministry of Transport Safety” because of the fact that most of it has happened among him in matters of safety. Our Minister of Transport said: Let us discuss over 160 and look at where this is possible and under what conditions this is possible! What are the greens doing? – Half the nation believes that on all motorways 160 km/h is allowed. I just heard from Mrs Moser – I know how well she was informed – that a colleague asked her: Does that mean 160 plus 50? Then we have 210! I don't even think you're listening to the Minister for Transport. He said quite clearly that 180 is the upper limit. All that is over 180 will be sanctioned on the motorway immediately with the withdrawal of a driver's license. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Sure, you already have to deal with the contents. They shout, lament, but do not listen to what the one who made this proposal says. It has not even been a proposal, but he has just said, we are discussing it, it would be useful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What for?]] When I hear the arguments, I have to say it's also wrong, I didn't go out there to actually correct something. Mrs Moser! Three-track motorways in Italy, when it is dry and when the weather allows it, 150 km/h is allowed. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Italy not!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Where?]] Not only in Germany, where one third of all motorways are without speed limits. That's strange again: If we have a road safety discussion, then Germany will be used by you for comparison! Mr Van der Bellen! Germany has far less traffic deaths. We're finally there. Germany always keeps with you when it comes to any positive figures. On a third of the motorways there is no speed limitation. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Now, suddenly, Germany is a model?]] If you look at the structures, you can see that they are at least as good as in Germany. Why not allow this on certain routes, three-track, straight, no curves? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Because of CO2, the accident risk, the noise!]] I know it's about the lawns you call the drivers. Everything that drives over 30 km/h is already crazy with you. It would be best if the highways were to be greened so that at 80 everyone already has the feeling that he is racing. That's your policy! We spend billions and billions of dollars to have good roads to have a good traffic network. The transport network is only used for you to talk about it and always criticize it there... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger! You are not even in the Transport Committee, you do not know about transport at all. I don't know what traffic you're doing, but I don't know what traffic you're doing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, it's a difference whether I'm just driving, having nice weather, no traffic. Mrs Moser! You've disagreed twice. An example: If you drive 160, the distance must be bigger, then not so many cars can drive, you need more traffic jams. - That's a total nonsense! [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] After that, you said quite rightly that 160 actually do not have to be traffic or very little traffic. That is why the Minister also said: Transport influence system, traffic control system, cross-borders... [[Abg. Oil: Oh you!]] If a lot of traffic is, speed down, if there is little traffic, speed up. If I discuss this today and look at road safety – from last year to this year less than 50 dead – I have to say: The objective that the Social Democrats have once defined, that of halving the number of road fatalities, we all achieve under this government! I am convinced of this because of the committed implementation and the fact that much money is being invested. Mr Eder spoke about Section Control throughout Austria. - That's not what anyone wants! We only want to be there section control, where there are really dangerous places where many accidents happen. The Kaisermühlentunnel has proved it: Reducing to zero. You're not saying anything! Come out, say, these are good achievements! You immediately responded where danger threatens. Ladies and gentlemen Miedl also said that not only the EIA ensures that security is respected, but we all do. Under our Minister for Transport, something has gone on! In Tyrol, €30 million is invested on a route where the locals are burdened, where we not only talk about transit, but deal with it every day, because we live where we have invested a lot of money in the Brenner Base Tunnel to regulate this. There's no one talking about 160. There we have the speed limit of 100, because of noise and because of many environmental factors, but it is not enough. If you are responsible for the speed of environmental pollution today, I will tell you: Do you know what makes us the biggest increase in traffic? – It is simply the accession of the new countries. That's a fact. We've always been critical of this. When I drive on the motorway, I see that every second or third car is already Polish, Hungarian or just one from the new accession countries. When you agreed, we have seen this critically. I also said this in the election campaign: No consent to this enlargement if transit is not regulated! You said: Open up, of course, the problems can be solved in Europe. Now we have European traffic on our streets, and you complain that 20,000 children have bronchitis. I know the problem, we suffer from it. Believe me, the FPÖ under Minister of Transport Gorbach will never allow it to be driven in Ballage Centres 160! Nobody's thinking about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Let's talk about the conditions: flexible speed indicators. This has been a problem with fog. It seems that fog alone has not prevented people from driving at too high a speed. Flexible means that the speed is immediately reduced or increased where it is important and meaningful. We can therefore only support the objectives and ideas of the Vice Chancellor. We will do this, even without your support and without the regret that you are spreading.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14059	Mr Grünewald has now spoken. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14080	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Some old hit is: “Zwickt’s mi, i’ man, i’ tram!” – I feel something similar now. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This continues: “It’s just going to be where san ma daham! ”]] Of course, you learn a lot. Mr Miedl, Member of Parliament, confronts us with wisdom: Traffic is – guess! – Reality. – That's how far we've been before, I think. My predecessor links the direction speed or target speed with the moon flight. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the song is about alcoholism and not about speed!]] Of course, it is strange that all these proposals are, in my opinion, as interesting as a fly in the coffee and that they come from a government party that I have experienced until now rather in the backward direction. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Now we are curious about you!]] If I reduce the only forward movement of a government party on motorways, this might be a very good proposal, but not very healthy. [[Abg. Sburny: But not so fast!]] From backward movement: There are already restrictions anyway. The weather has to fit, the view has to fit, it's called. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Target orientation is important! You have to do something important!]] There was the film “Hinterholz 8” once. I now think of a scene that I would call “Hinterbolz 160”. - Picture: Driver is pleasantly rubbing a few leather gloves over his hands, tenderly claping the steering wheel. His passenger gives him instructions: Viewing distance – 100 meters, side wind – 5 meters from right, sun exposure – south-southwest to northnordost, road temperature – 17 degrees, next fog bank above the Bay of Biskay. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Hurra! Rasch stretches his right foot, and a tender moan quilts out of his lips. After three minutes: Section control. - Oh, disk, I'm just saying more now. So if that's the point of the matter! Maybe then another green request: Left and right fall rooms of 200 meters each, via an environmental impact check that the cars can also roll out. – It may not have been! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] I personally would prefer trains that might drive faster than 130. You can drive 160, also 180! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With slow trains like on the southern railway track – Koralm back or forth – perhaps even a van would not be bad. That might be innovation and world openness! [[New condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are, of course, numerous objections against 160 km/h. I believe that only because a Spielberg is taken, one should not build a playground on the motorway. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] What I find interesting, of course, is that on the one hand there is this infinite enemy image red-green in this “evil” Germany, but now it means: Oh, we'd have to have German conditions, which are allowed to get on the tube so right until it's empty. Yeah, but what happens then? – Mr Glawischnig explained that noise is getting stronger. There are studies on the frequency of accidents. Not all people and experts are stupid to create studies. - I wouldn't assume that. I think America has had an increase in accidents between 19 and 34 per cent from 90 km/h to 110 km/h, but Switzerland is 12 per cent less with a reduction of only 10 km/h. Of course, noise increases also have health consequences. You know, noise makes nervous. You can see it inside here, too. It's rarely quiet. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you so nervous?]] Noise can cause high blood pressure to ulcer at longer stages of action. Is that what you want? – I think no, so slow down! What I want to focus on is what my colleague Miedl meant: in Austria, fine dust and soot have already been reduced almost ton-wise. But the number you mentioned is exactly what would have increased due to traffic anyway. That means you do not reduce the values, but you ultimately keep the status quo. Of course, the fact that the brake paths are also getting shorter could make man feel. Even if Wittauer thinks we can fly to the moon: It is enough 20 km/h to break a foot, and at 160 km/h more happens accordingly. I'll just get to the fine dust. They know that these small particles, which are about the size of a human cell, can reach the deepest parts of the lungs, beyond the bronchies to the alveols, and settle there as diesel particles, for example. There are also expert opinions on these effects. I know. Of course, thanks to God, not all Austria is a motorway, and you do not drive everywhere 160. But if in 8 out of 11 measuring points in Tyrol the fine dust limits were exceeded on more than 35 days a year, I would avoid anything that would increase this fine dust particle concentration. 160 km/h will not have a positive effect on this. – You should definitely be 100 percent clear. If the WHO – and that's not any club! – for Europe, up to 13,000 additional deaths in children aged zero to four years are caused by such soot and fine dust particles – admittedly: in all 52 countries of Europe – this is already an nuisance, and not a small one, when you know that these particles are mainly close to soil. – Children logically have their heads – which you might also like – closer to the ground than we, which we are over 1.60 meters in size. That this causes asthma attacks, also a chronic asthma up to the right heart load, cardiovascular load up to cardiological complaints, is also clear. The tricky thing is – I tell you to conclude – that these soot particles are of course not filtered by the nose – even if you still have so much hair in it – nor by the bronchia, but they come to places where they remain. That is, the consequences of these soot particles are, for example, local tumors, or lung cancer. We will only experience these consequences after a latency of ten, 15 or 20 years. I don't want to wait that long until we really act innovatively and wisely. Let us therefore: “Zwickt’s mi, i’ man, i’tram!” – I think this topic can be cut off as well. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: Why did you make a urgent request?]] – To help you cut it off. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Necessary help, no urgent inquiry!]] Whether it's useful, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14252	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Kukacka. His speaking time is up to 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14293	If you don't interrupt and provoke me for too long, I'll be sure to stick to it! Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are dealing with a urgent question on this issue today, a point is particularly important to me: First of all, it is important to me that we discuss this issue openly with the necessary substantiveness and not primarily with regard to personal emotion. [[Abg. Brosz: That's why the Gorbach has not said anything about the pollutants!]] It is certainly not wise to go to confrontation immediately with a political proposal, even before all the criteria have been carefully considered. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: We've been thinking!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That was a good suggestion to consider first!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the decision-making process, it is necessary to clarify whether, under certain conditions, it is possible to travel faster than 130 km/h, especially of course – and since I agree with the opposition – whether additional hazards in terms of road safety arise, whether additional environmental loads are created, or whether, on the other hand, this also needs to be taken into account, of course, the performance of motorways and traffic fluids can be improved. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's true too!]] This, of course, must also be included in the considerations. I also have to say quite clearly that I have always represented exactly the above-mentioned position and did not support a request for 160 km/h – as Mrs Glawischnig has said here or in the introduction of the urgent request. I will not hear such a statement from you, but I will not, on the other hand, reject it indiscriminately. – I would also like to make that clear. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen:... more differentiated!]] My demand and concern has always been that this issue should be discussed and negotiated objectively and unafraidly with all the pros and contrasts. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why is it? Are you fad?]] – No, I am not fad, but I believe that an important issue that also moves the population – as you yourself have said – should, of course, also be able to discuss with all advantages and disadvantages in a factual and comprehensive manner. [[Abg. Mandak: What benefits does that have?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What is the advantage?]] If we consider the basic legal possibility of increasing the maximum permitted speed, then we see that it is purely legal, because in the 2002 STVO-Novelle, the legislator norms that the authority – in the case of motorways, the Federal Minister – can define such a higher speed by regulation – higher than the respective legal maximum speed – if the ease and liquidity of transport require it and if it allows traffic safety. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: “Require”!]] [[Abg. Oils: There's no such thing as that!]] And it is precisely this: to examine these facts objectively. This task and its objective should also serve the transport impact facilities mentioned above. The ASFINAG has decided to invest in a transport management and information system to invest €40 million annually in the future. I would like to point out that the objectives of this project are transport management systems of direct transport policy, but also transport safety benefits, because this will allow us to increase the efficiency of the traffic flow by up to 10 percent, increase transport safety by up to 30 percent, reduce accident levels by up to 35 percent and reduce external costs – i.e. congestion costs and environmental costs. It also aims to reduce the disturbances in road operation by early warning of backstowers and against unfavourable weather and road conditions. [[Abg. Sburny: If you let people drive faster in between, there is more congestion! We've known that for 20 years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore create the conditions for both safer and better, more efficient and more liquid transport to be handled. [[Abg. Oils: Draw harmonica effect! Have you heard of that before?]] Where would 160 km/h be possible in principle, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Vice-Chancellor pointed out Only where there are extended three-track and sufficiently long sections. [[Abg. Oillinger: He said two traces too! I'll be careful!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: No, he said two traces! So in the urban area!]] This is only available on the A 1 and the A 2 – the South motorway – ladies and gentlemen! In these sections, after the current ASFINAG decisions, a traffic impact system is built where three-track expansions – that is, only between the node Haid and the node Voralpenkreuz – are needed. [[Abg. Oillingers: In the urban area!]] According to my information, it will not be completed until 2007. The Upper Austrian Government has also declared that it is at a similar pace in this area. [[Abg. Oils: Eben!]] Of course – and Mr Vice-Chancellor has also pointed out – one will also be looking for the dialogue with the national governments and come to a decision together. Ladies and gentlemen! The European perspective will also have to be taken into account. If we take a short look at the speed limits on the EU 25 motorways, we note that 130 is the speed limit in nine states, while 150 are allowed to be driven in Italy on dry roads. [[Abg. Oils: Dürften!]] In Germany – under the red-green government – there is no statutory tempo limit at all, but only a direction speed. In the other EU countries, the speed limit on motorways is 110 and 120, except in Norway, where the 90 km/h limit applies. The European Commission has stated in its 2003 Communication that speed should, of course, be included in the policy consideration in order to increase road safety. However, the European Union has not yet made any more detailed determinations on this matter. These European considerations and perspectives, of course, must also be taken into account, but I also note that: Motorways are seven times safer than the low-ranking road system. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Take a long time!]] – This, too, has shown the traffic statistics and will also confirm to you the Board of Trustees for Transport Safety. [[Abg. Oillinger: Not with your policy!]] We therefore need to consider and evaluate all relevant scientific data and facts and facts in order to decide whether, at all events, and under what conditions, it is possible to travel faster than before without endangering our own objectives of greater road safety and environmental compatibility. [[Abg. Oillinger: You're really fat!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You must be really fat!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: You really have no other problems!]] Therefore, the ÖVP will also hold a corresponding road safety survey, namely, on 16 June 2008. March, where experts from Siemens, ÖAMTC, ÖMV, Graz University Hospital, ASFINAG, the Institute of Vehicle Safety and the Board of Trustees for Transport Safety will ensure precisely this situation and discuss the scientific basis for a safe and efficient transport policy. [[Abg. Sburny: What's the cost? For what?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The ÖMV is safe for this!]] [[Abg. Oils: We already have them!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore agree that, if there is sufficient technical information, it can be used as the basis for a decisive decision on the introduction of a field experiment at the rate of 160 and on the possible and appropriate motorway routes and the right time for further advice and final decision on this subject. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14676	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14697	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated State Secretary! “Zwickt’s mi, i man i tram!” – Now I know what comes out when green health politicians discuss transport policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: No one knows how the song continues!]] Zwickt’s me, i man i tram: It can become quite philosophical, Professor, but in the whole debate there was nothing in substance, and that is perhaps the difference. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Are you for more fine feeling?]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald:... mental health, you know?]] [[Call to the Greens: lung cancer!]] I would like to defend you, Mr Professor, because Mr Eder said that we should have discussions in this House only if they bring something almost Party-political and tactical. [[Abg. Binder: He didn't say that!]] – I am not of this opinion. I think the debate is right, and I think it makes sense for us to have a debate on road safety here today. [[Abg. Sburny: This is not a discussion about road safety, but about uncertainty!]] [[Abg. Oils: Insecurity!]] I would also like to record the ball played by Mrs Glawischnig. She has chosen the start of the 1970s. Of course, we had a completely different situation back then. I can remember: There has been this famous, well-known guest worker route through the Palten and Liesing valley, and in Leoben was the famous, well-known bypass where dozens of accidents have happened every weekend. I was driving a VW cage that needed 15 liters. At that time, the daily routes to the accessible gas stations were designed. A trip to Vienna took place at the time, so that in the Mürztal you crossed the places almost completely, then you passed over the Semmering, and at that time there was the famous Neunkirchner Allee. Finally, one has sat down across the spider on the cross. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is very interesting, but what does this have to do with the topic?]] I am therefore saying this because I believe that when we look at the situation today, it is very plausible how the whole traffic situation in that country has changed. In the first phase, the technologies of the cars have changed incredibly. We need to consider which safety systems are now installed in the cars and how much the ecological components such as petrol consumption or noise have been improved. I can remember that in my VW cage at 70 km/h you didn't need a radio anymore, because you didn't understand anything. That's where the noise inside was the same size as outside. This has changed dramatically. The road infrastructure has been really modern, and the Styria has contributed a lot to this technology development in the cars with the automotive cluster. Companies like Magna, AVL and Pankl are global technology drivers in terms of traffic safety and ecology. The bright heads in Styria, Professor, have made this country one of the most sought-after places in the world in this industry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Although no tempo 160?]] I come to this perspective now. – It was thus made sure that the cars and the modes of transport were safer, we made sure that what is almost all around it is safe, i.e. the motorways, the main rails and so on. An important development potential from my point of view is the issue of traffic control systems. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What do we need the 160 for?]] I'm telling you today: This discussion about speed 160: yes or no? It is too easy for me personally, because there are situations on the motorway, in which 80 is too much. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes, eh!]] There's 80 too much! In this context, we are dealing with the technologies of transport control systems, and I think that this question has something to do with transport safety and environmental aspects. [[Abg. Oillinger: But we don't need to discuss this now!]] This question, Professor, at 160: yes or no? It is not enough for me personally to shorten this debate. [[Abg. Oillingers: But you demand that!]] The questions raised are: How do we manage traffic flows overall in the next few years? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: at tempo 160?]] How do we accelerate traffic in certain situations? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Certainly not with 160!]] And, my colleague, How can we speed up traffic in certain situations? I believe that it is necessary for us to continue this discussion because traffic flows are going to increase. We don't have to think about that! Transport flows will continue to increase as a result of the enlargement of the European Union. I am therefore in favour of furthering the debate on speed control from my point of view. However, I am also in favour of having a more intensive discussion on environmental aspects. We had a very interesting discussion here in the House yesterday about the environmental impact assessment, and I would like to return a piece on yesterday's day because in Styria something very interesting has developed. On 22.2., Mr Voves was massively opposed to this innovation, and his colleagues from Styria have been massively watered here. Then the whole thing went like this: Mrs Fleckl was not even in her place, she was sitting down only then. Mr Voves, however, already left out a press release at 2.07 p.m. and welcomed this novel, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grill: Unimaginable!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: In chaos lies the power!]] Mrs. Fleckl, it's your problem as you deal with the matter. I only warn you, Mrs Fleckl: You might want to be a bit more careful with your party president! [[Abg. Fleckl: Read it properly!]] It was a regular “legerl” that he produced for you yesterday! Trust Don't tell him, Mrs. Colleague! Don't trust him! The half-life of his political line on this question was exactly eight days and 23 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14971	Mrs Binder is now speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14992	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal very pragmatically with this subject 160 km/h on the motorway, because in principle every driver and every driver in these areas in connection with speed limits of absolute expert or absolute expert, Pro and Kontra are very keenly exchanged, it is very eagerly discussed, and personal impressions and sensibilities are explained. According to a “profile” survey, almost 51 percent of Austrians refuse to increase from 130 to 160 km/h. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: According to “crowns, ” 73 percent are for that!]] Quiet blood, my colleague. About 43 percent can befriended by the proposal. Men are positively opposed to a higher rate limit, women are clearly opposed to the proposal at 37 percent. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] You can see it from the discussion of the men! Pro arguments for 160 are that you can travel a little faster at 160 km/h – the profit of time is, in my opinion, very minimal – and above all, the opportunity to try out and exploit the absolute strength, depending on the car. Ladies and gentlemen! The question in this context is only whether this strength is also adapted to the conditions and conditions on the road. Such conditions are, for example, the three-trackness, the traffic density and the weather conditions, because all of this plays an important role. In this context, it is especially necessary – now I am once again with the famous word – to take account of personal responsibility, discipline, discretion and, above all, consideration. The results of Wednesday have shown that high speed, low safety standards and, above all, the effects of weather can lead to devastating accidents. These criteria are very, very important in this context. Experts believe that even under good respectful conditions, a higher speed on motorways has caused significantly more accidents, and in 2004 an overly high rate was responsible for 40 percent of fatal traffic accidents. Austria is in the middle of the EU with 110 fatalities per million inhabitants, compared to the population in Austria, twice as many people die in road accidents as in the safest countries, for example in Sweden and the Netherlands. How does the international comparison look? – In 15 EU countries less than 130 km/h on motorways are allowed, eight EU countries have speed limit 110 km/h, six EU countries have permitted 120 km/h, and the lowest limit in Europe is the non-EU country Norway with 90 km/h on motorways. In Germany and Italy it is possible to drive faster than 130. Ladies and gentlemen! Another calculation is also made by the secondary route, which naturally increases when you drive 160 instead of 130, and above all the optimal conditions are decisive. One final aspect to be taken into account is the lack of technical facilities such as overhead bar control systems, traffic control systems and weather sensors. – There are many open issues and problems that need to be discussed in this context. The many risks, which are exposed to each individual operator and to each individual operator, must not be disregarded. In today’s “Kurier” it is to be read that Herbert Hufnagl spoke of the “painted fighting dogs” in connection with a very specific group, i.e. those people who, with their cars, endanger and harass other, disciplined and prudent road users. – In this context, it is only in the light of clear regulations, technically flawless and functioning transport systems and a comprehensive control system that it may be possible to talk about flexibility once. The common objectives must continue to be road safety, the reduction of road accidents and the reduction of the number of road fatalities, and it must not be possible that – as the Curatorium for Transport Safety calls it – the pleasure and ease of the individual driver endangers others.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15035	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Dr. Bleckmann. – Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15056	Mr President. Honourable State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group! Since my colleague Glawischnig has also made a small question in her speech, I would also like to point out those of you who have never driven a car 160 km/h on the motorway where the pointer on the tachometer has never reached 160. – Not many of you have shown! [[Abg. Sburny: My car doesn't drive so fast!]] At least they were honest! And I think that's what it's all about. Who of us has never driven 160 km/h on the highway? If Mr Moser says that the topic should be discussed here, she seems to have confused this space with the place of action of her profession. If the subject is only met if it corresponds to their green opinion, then I am sorry for the students who suffer from such a teacher only if they speak subject-orientedly if it corresponds to their opinion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you're saying something like that, please listen to what the vice chancellor says, because he hasn't yet decided on a test track. That seems to have gone away from you! If already theme-oriented speaking is required here, then also theme-oriented listening from your page! No test track has been set so far. You have also spoken of Kyoto, and therefore I ask you: Please explain to me what it can be like to see the Kyoto target when the small country Austria – Kyoto is a large part of the world! – a test distance of maybe 20 km, at once is not reached! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Please explain this to me! I think there are other, much more important things to do in order to achieve the Kyoto goal than with a small 20 km long test track! If you're talking about fine dust: We are already particularly affected by this in Graz. But there's tempo 30. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig: You haven't heard from Salzburg and the Tauern motorway yet?]] This is certainly also a major problem for fine dust, and there is something to be done about it! But it's new to me that the children on the highway are affected by the fine dust. Unfortunately, the fact that they are affected in Graz is sad, but true. But that children are affected by the dust on the motorway at 160, you really couldn't prove this to me sustainable! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Mr Glawischnig, if you are already calling in, I would also ask you to discuss this subject very seriously, because the comparison between a fog accident and the sectoral introduction of Tempo 160 is already very, very far-reaching! There was certainly not 160 driven, but there was fog, and one certainly drove at 80 km/h or less. That is why we cannot compare this with this sectoral tempo limit introduction! In this respect, it should be noted that: You compare apples with pears exactly what you always criticize otherwise! So you are dealing with this example of yours! If it went after you, we would probably give up and green all the motorways anyway, and then we would have what you want! However, there would be no more mobility in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I also find it immense that one assumes that here people or parties are concerned that there are more accidents and more deaths! It is immense that there are such precepts here! If we want to discuss seriously, we need to talk about this test track, and then we look at the results! But if especially those who have contributed a great deal to road safety in Austria with the projects and programmes they have carried out and have finally implemented in Austria, it is assumed that it is also their intention to have more accidents and deaths, so to speak, then that is simply immense! It also says psychologists – but this seems to you to be missing – that it is very important that, when you introduce tempo limits, this measure is also comprehensible for those concerned. And that means that, if some limits have to be lowered, because they are each accident sites, on the other hand, it must be as possible to open these limits up in other areas if the relevant criteria are met. That's exactly what it's all about: If there is a clear view when there is a broad road when there is less traffic, it must also be possible to introduce higher speeds sectorally. It must be possible under optimal conditions! This should not be a general but a sectoral solution! No one is forced to take advantage of this speed and to drive the maximum speed. It doesn't have to be exploited! It would also help to increase the acceptance of tempo reduction – i.e. for reduced tempo limits – if you also allow higher speeds in individual areas. That's exactly what this is about: Increase the acceptance of drivers for some road safety measure. This would certainly lead in the future to an improvement in road safety and related to accident statistics and death statistics. Let us look together at the results of a test track which, as I said, is not yet fixed! For what? – So that we can see that what your studies show is wrong so that we can prove that the studies you have are not right. A test track will be able to prove that accidents are no longer accidents and no more deaths, but that there will be less congestion and improvement in the quality of transport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] That's why we're for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15154	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15175	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I have now read this with the corresponding emphasis, because I wanted to draw attention to this inconsistency: We have not heard a single word about how to achieve a targeted reduction in fine dust at an increase in the pace. We have not heard a word about how to exclude health risks. Every dead person and every dead child is too much to die in road traffic. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as representatives of SPÖ and the Liberals.]] Excuse me, but I have to say that I actually feel disdained here as a parliamentarian, Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you are swinging speeches here, which we have heard in the Transport Committee, heard yesterday in the National Council, and with no word address on this issue. There I feel disdained, and I don't want to know how parents of children who had to complain of a death victim due to excessive speed when they hear these speeches from you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What if instead of these full-tone speeches, such as those of the Minister for Finance, who always says: Create work, win the future, from the end light far forward!, even once you would hear the announcement: No more dead in road traffic!Unknown term type: "%s".? You can even make a rap out of it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I need to tell you something. The following statement has been made in the Transport Committee, but not in front of the audience, but by the way: When the speech came to mind that there are always endangered places where more deaths are to be complained, he said: Yes, the dead have to come from somewhere! – This is obviously an inner opinion of you that traffic without the dead does not come true. What is that supposed to mean? That means we're buying that there's human sacrifice here. We'll take care of this. Let me quote something philosophical to you: On the human sacrifice, according to a religious philosopher, only the “do, out of the” is understandable: “I give (dir) that you may give.” Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Is that supposed to be you, I give something valuable so that I, who I am more valuable than anything else, will be taken by myself? That is the inner sense of a human sacrifice. And Theophrastus says: “It was only in times of unusual distress of our sex that living things were meant to be a victim.” – It must be very bad for you to look out for such means to get attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15301	The motion for a resolution by Dr Eva Glawischnig, Dr Gabriela Moser, friends and friends concerning urgent package of measures “Healthy air instead of fine dust breath” is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15459	Mr Gorbach is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15480	Mr President. Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to replicate some of the comments and findings that have been made recently – if you want, something like an actual correction, although I do not know whether a member of the government may. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] On your actual correction, Mrs Mandak, I should like to say, of course, that I was right to inform the waiting journalists about the outcome and the results between 14.55 and 14.59 a.m. and from my office here in Parliament, where the meeting with Dr Häupl took place, about three to three and a half minutes ago, and to point out that details of Mr Häupl will be announced. But I'm glad you're so interested in me, for where I'm just moving, just trying to understand minutely how that has been. In fact, I can only say: I should like to have your concerns, Mrs Mandak! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Moser, so that this is clear once and for all: I have never thought of the general introduction of 160 km/h maximum limit on the high-level road network, nor did I ask for it, because I am aware that this is not at all possible and makes no sense in Austria due to the topography, the system of high-level road networks. This would also be contrary to what I have mentioned as conditions, as accompanying conditions, from the first moment on. I'll come back to that later. As far as the experiments are concerned, I do not want to anticipate the results, and therefore I have never – so that it is clear and clear – mentioned a certain route, neither in Upper Austria nor in Styria, which I have in mind as an experimental route. No, I said – if I may repeat that again – it is now happening in the group of experts I have used, something like a fact finding. We will also take into account all the arguments we have put forward, as we will also take into account opinions on environmental impacts, on the impact on road safety, on everything possible. This, I imagine, will take half a year, you should not break things over your knees, and then, if the first traffic-influence plants are in operation, you can already have proven yourself – the first is in operation in April – in 2006 on an experimental route, a field experiment can take place, so to speak, whether what we have felt in the theory is true and more traceabilityable, is true in practice as well. So there's no fixed test track, I don't have any particulars in mind either. [[Abg. Sburny: That means, after the first dead you put that back on!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Rather, I have said that, and I am telling you that, and there is no uncertainty at all, because I am very sure that the loud memory and the discussion that has resulted is a good thing I am not here for rigid boundaries. [[Complaints with Members of the Liberals]] If I have the transport influence system across Austria, which probably reduces the maximum speed more often, then I do not see at all why flexibility should not exist up under optimum conditions. A rigid handling of such rules is not my case. I also believe that the debate around 160 km/h is not a debate at the wrong time, but rather a reflection at the right moment. I have already said the timetable – and this has nothing to do with electoral tactics, Mr Eder, as you put it to me. To facilitate the placing of the motorcycle driver's license is, in my opinion, also a legitimate discussion. Now it is true that someone who has the B-Führerschein and makes the A-Führerschein, must also complete the full length theory. Put yourself in the situation, he would fall through in the theoretical part. Do I take him the B-Führerschein? Do I have to? That would be a good discussion. I mean, one should put this time and this effort more into the special training of the motorcyclist, in which the dangers are pointed out, than to wander around again in the theory that he would have to already dominate on the basis of his practice. You caught me, Mr. Eder, I actually have permanent elections in mind. I have them in mind in autumn too, but in autumn 2006 and not 2005 as you put it to me. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Grünewald, as beautiful as it is, and it has also sounded humorous with your passenger – I have nothing against passengers – but I hope you have already heard about traffic telematics, traffic influences. That's exactly what they can do – that's why I've linked it – that I'm told that 120 are too many and that's why it's now reduced to 80 or if 130 may be exceeded without taking a safety risk, because it's nice weather, because it's dry because everything's palleti, because it's not much traffic and so on. So that does not make the passenger, but just the transport influence system or the traffic telecommunication. [[Abg. Sburny: But who knows what day constitution I have?]] And, Mr Greenewald, I would also like to say to you: These phrases used there are not funny: Test tests with human life would I make, or “Holle at Highway” and more. It has not come from you, but that has been mentioned by some, time and again, and that is exactly the wrong discussion, that is to say, unsolicited. I would like to know them calmly, seriously, taking all the facts into account. The amount of pollution you are right to put into the discussion here, and I also use this WHO study in Brussels when it comes to transit issues. Linking the amount of pollutants to the traffic impact system was my idea, not last summer, but last summer already, 2003. I said in Tirol at that time that I prefer your area so that you can link the pollutant measuring stations to the traffic control system. And if that brings something – but it still has to be examined and proved – to reduce the pace when there is a certain pollutant load, a limit value is reached, then we will do so via the traffic control system. So we obviously have these thoughts in common. If Mr Eder has said that you have been thinking in the SPÖ Club and could imagine discussing over 150 km/h, then I am just saying, even nice and right, that it is at least an approach to my loud thinking. Welcome to the club of those who do not know a taboo and who are also willing to think about things that have always been so, and whether it could not be made better because of the development and new circumstances in the future. So we're going to discuss this unafraid and without Tabus! Summary: If the conditions are appropriate, then the possibility – of course no compulsion – should be given to drive more than 130, even in Austria, not only in Italy and Germany. Now, for six months, a collection of all arguments, all facts, takes place. The decision where a test track is to be in 2006 has not yet been taken. I am not taking any decisions that have no basis yet. Then, of course, I will talk to local decision-makers, to national heads of state or, at least, to district leaders or political leaders. I'd even mean, Let us not take this debate so excitedly! You, too, from the Green Group are invited to submit your arguments. The SPÖ will certainly do the same, and there will be others who do it. Then I'm convinced we'll have a good result. I mean, it should also be possible in Austria to drive at least faster than 130, and I want to make this possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15559	Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15580	Madam President. High house! I would like to appeal to the Members of the Green Group to stop the alarm bells. It doesn't have to be alarmed. We have clearly stated today that there is no legal new regulation. Both the ÖVP and the FPÖ have today clearly expressed their support for this: The speed limits now established in the STVO remain stable. What's in the road traffic regulations? In § 20 para. 1 we have defined the individual responsibility of each driver. It is said that the handlebar has the speed to adapt to the circumstances, in particular to road, traffic and visibility conditions. So even if 130 can be driven on the highway and it's fog, he can't drive them. He's got to adjust his speed. Secondly, There are general standards. We have 130 on motorways, 100 on other free land roads and 50 in the local area. This was established in 1975 for other reasons. At the time after the oil price shock, energy reasons were responsible. And that certainly proved to be the case. On the other hand, in § 43 we also have two important paragraphs. According to § 43 para. 1 the Authority has, when it requires safety to reduce the generally permissible speed, and this happens very often. Just think of all the 30s zones in the local areas, or if you drive on the motorways, you will often see a speed limit of 80 or 100. Thus, the Authority fulfils its mandate to reduce the maximum permissible speed for reasons of road safety. According to § 43 para. 4 – formerly “has the authority” there; as State Secretary Kukacka has already said, in the novelle 2002, this was changed to “can” – if the ease and fluid of transport require it and there are no concerns that road safety will also allow a higher speed. This will now be examined whether there are individual routes where this is the case. By the way, we have this in very large numbers, you only need to look in the area: Very often 60 or 70 km/h are allowed in local transits. Nobody's upset about it. As the Authority has examined and concluded, 60 or 70 can be driven there, although generally 50 km/h of road traffic is provided for the local area. The Authority may not and may not act arbitrarily. According to the road traffic regulations, it has to weigh all interests. It must not be inactive either. It has just to consider the ease and liquidity of the traffic, the design speed of the motorway, the curves, the inclinations. That is all of course in the case of a responsible action by the authority. Certainly, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig is right when she says that the laws of physics cannot be suspended. We know energy is mv2, square of speed! If I have a hit in an accident, this energy will be destroyed at the moment, or I'll have to slow it down. For the transport technician, the power connection on the road is crucial because I have to destroy the energy via the road friction accordingly. So that must also be considered when it comes to road safety. And we also know that traffic safety then It is particularly large when the vehicles are moving evenly. So a vehicle that is a special outsider is much more at risk. This is also a point which the Authority must examine responsibly. Mr Gorbach has already said today what the conditions for such a regulation would be. First, a flexible speed indicator. That's very important, because it certainly can't be that 160 km/h is there, and then someone thinks he can drive so fast in fog or in snow. There must be a corresponding change in signaling. Secondly, there must be the structural conditions. As I said, Driving strips, design speed and so on. Thirdly, there must be better control: 160 must be 160! It would be optimal, of course, if the record of the withdrawal of the driver's licence were to be maintained at 180 and not the 50 on the 160. And the point four: no noise impairment of the population. There must be noise protection walls, or there must be in an area where no one lives. That's what I'm gonna end up with. I personally have the full confidence in the competent authority, in Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach, that he corrects the procedures required here and in the StVO, and that he then decides responsibly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15648	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15669	Ladies and gentlemen! First, I would like to comment briefly on Dr Glawischnig, Gabi Moser and friends' resolution just tabled. Our group will vote in favour of this request, because all these demands, one to six points, are also demands of our group. However, I would like to say that we distance ourselves from the explanatory statement to the fifth point because we are not basically for a stop of motorway construction because we are not against any tunnel solution, but because we are for the construction of the Lainzer tunnel, for the crossing of the Danube with a tunnel or for the extension of the Semmering base tunnel. But we agree with the proposal itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Kanzler, I now come back to the proposal you have made, which is understandable to me from your point of view, because the FPÖ is no longer visible and heard by the permanent invaders and helps you to be in the media again and that FPÖ can be public again with this question. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That sounds incredibly credible!]] Is it meat, I see it that way. Look, I also think that your speeches are really not an honest discussion if you are teaching down everything that is presented here in terms of content. And if colleague Bleckmann still says that you're going to evaluate the whole thing according to the experience on the test track, I don't understand it at all, because I think you have to look at and think about things before and weigh Pro and Contra, and then you can draw his conclusions from it. That's how I imagine a proper discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that many areas of transport policy are in annoyance can also be seen from the fact that, for example, in the previous year, our transport speaker submitted an initiative which is still on ice, where a Federal Office for the Transport of Goods was required to carry out comprehensive control tasks, namely the overall monitoring of freight and passenger transport. In this area, all concessions, social and labour legislation and also the technical requirements of the fleet would have to be monitored. Furthermore, there are no legal restrictions for small trucks below 3.5 tonnes so far. The number of accidents in these trucks is increasing steadily. There is an urgent need for action here, especially when you know that these small trucks also carry dangerous goods. The effects of an accident would be disastrous. And you can imagine that these vehicles should also drive 160 km/h on the road. It would also be important to further unbundle freight and individual transport, for example in the form that one locks the third track for trucks. [[Abg. Neudeck: Idea is not a shame, but then you should not talk about it!]] This separation of freight and individual transport, for example, also includes the travel regulations, which is always a flick plant because it is re-created every year. It should be flexible, adapted to the school holidays for the whole of Austria and should perhaps also include the neighbouring countries. The semester holidays are not included at all. Only two roads were included in the winter travel regulation this year. It is particularly striking during the holiday regulations that no one road is covered in Vorarlberg, Mr. Vice-Kanzler Gorbach. This is a special coincidence. Finally, I refer to the study by the Board of Directors on Transport Safety, which says that many Austrian drivers are still driving very undisciplined. This also means that from allowed 160 will probably also be 180 km/h. Therefore, I think you would be well advised if you would rather frustrate the desire for speed and not inflame more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15731	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15752	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Becher, if you are “wish” what you say – now I need your original tone – you should think about it. I think you should already consider what you are saying here at the speaker's desk, because in the final effect you also represent the opinion of a party, a political group, or at least you should try it. Mrs. Dr. Moser, in your remarks at the beginning of the urgent inquiry, you have tried to tell us something. I've been thinking about what you meant in the meantime. You said: You have to imagine that if, due to the increased speed, you now have to increase the distances, you don't have any more cars on the motorways, and the investments would be wrong. Mrs. Dr. Moser, PISA says hello because the increased distance is due to the increased speed. If you need more space now, but the cars are driving faster, the number of cars is always the same, Mrs. Moser. [[Abg. Oillinger: Completely by the way!]] PISA says hello, because the distance – and you should know this, even if you are not an active driver – depends on the speed. [[Complaints with the liberals]] 2 seconds is the minimum distance. That means, once we have 72 meters, once we have 88 meters. There are still a lot of cars on this road, at least many cars pass the road at the same time. The investments that our vice chancellor – thank God! – in the area of road infrastructure, they are good, and they will also pay off at 160 km/h. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But you can explain it to her with the wheel!]] This is also the same with the bicycle, Mr Neudeck. And a second thing – and thus we come back to something more serious –: You stand out here, Mrs. Dr. Moser, and point out, directly or indirectly, consciously or unconsciously, that Mr. Vice-Kanzler's traffic fatality – you have even said: dead children! - It doesn't matter. – I strongly reject that on behalf of my group. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There can be no one in this high house, whether green, red, black or blue, who doesn't care about traffic deaths. And if you want to have an objective discussion here about increasing speed, Mrs. Moser, that's not the subject of this discussion. Again: I am not aware that you claim that our vice chancellor's road fatality does not matter. They don't care about him, just like any other member of the blue or black government group. Nobody cares about traffic fatalities – whether children or adults. That can and must not be! But I admit, I think the discussion is very good. I am at least as honest – just as you may honestly think that Tempo 130 is correct and 160 is bad. That's what I'm saying to you quite openly: I like the debate at 160 km/h, not because of that, Mr Brosz, so that I am 3 minutes faster in Carinthia, but because I am convinced that it is reasonable and good to think about increasing speeds in today's time, under the given conditions and in the given road situation. However, I would also like to say this – and I would also like to give this to Mr Vice-Chancellor here at this point – if one would look at one regulation or another, for example with regard to a limitation by too many signs on the road, and perhaps it would be through. Once you pass through the country with open eyes, you notice that there may be too much sign that you might be able to make simplifications here and that you should not try to restrict the citizen by restrictions and by measures where there is no need. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, from me you could already sign the 160 km/h by directions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15823	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. 5 minutes speaking time, 6 minutes remaining speaking time, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15850	Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I would like to make it clear that, of course, the colleague Becher did not mean that what she said was her “wish”, but – and I give her the right to speak – some of your words, Mr Scheuch, can be a real sausage. That's what you can assume! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If one has now followed the debate, especially the contribution made by the Secretary of State Kukacka, it becomes clear that this is a clear distraction, namely a distraction of the fact that the transport policy of the three gentlemen behind me – no, two, one – has, of course failed. I am thinking of the financial disaster at ÖBB, I am thinking that there are no concepts for local transport in peripheral regions, I am thinking that one is unable to establish a post-university service regulation that can protect postal offices. Ladies and gentlemen! Now you're looking for a topic that you think is possible to do with it, then you're fluently throwing this topic into the discussion, and that's what you're gonna do. I can only recommend to you, gentlemen on the government bank, to inform you a little about the situation of the executive, because one thing is certain: Of course, these five years under a black and blue government have led to thousands of executive officials being reduced, and the result is just a shortage of personnel. Therefore, the executive no longer fulfils its preventive tasks. If there are only more than 2 000 external executives available for traffic monitoring, it will be difficult to control these new provisions, the new possibilities to drive faster. But that will be necessary. Or don't you want that? I'll tell you: You don't have these officials! You've depleted them, and that's why you've chosen a wrong path here. The second argument that seems important to me is, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, it has not been shown that a loosening of this speed limit automatically leads to the car controllers then, as it were, to apodically stick to this new speed limit. In reality, the small group of high-risk regulators will, in particular, take advantage of these new opportunities and there will be enormous speeds. They are being encouraged to do so, and that is a false incentive in my view. I would be interested at all, Minister of State and Deputy Chancellor, as you see it. What is it like at 160 km/h on the motorway? Let's say there's a driver with a blue Porsche who can drive 160 km/h: If you take the 160 now and you charge 50 – this is still allowed – we are at 210 km/h. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But he explained this here!]] [[Abg. Murauer: 180 are the border! - I don't know!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of the speaker) Where have you been?]] And another 10 is added; that's the tolerance limit, not true, 5 percent. In other words, a driver's license withdrawal would only be possible at 220 km/h. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is a witness of poverty, Mr. Cot.]] This is a very strange process! There is, of course, only a fine for that. That's also very interesting. That is to say, the one who can afford a blue Porsche can of course also pay his fine for the lawn. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that the state of the executive's fleet is particularly dramatic in the area of transport departments. We started a request in April 2004, and it has been found that of 197 traffic monitoring vehicles, 99 have between 100 000 and 200 000 km at the Tacho, 43 between 200 000 and 300 000, eleven between 300 000 and 400 000 and two even over 400 000 km. How you want to stop a shaver with 200 or 220 or more km/h, that’s what I’m looking at! [[Abg. Scheibner: This also has nothing to do with 160!]] But, Mr Scheibner, responsible transport policy needs, of course, substantial strategies; that is not a question. We will certainly need more flexible and more selective speed schemes in the future, and if, as part of the discussion, there is an improvement in telematics measures, the development of efficient speed control systems and, above all, the improvement of infrastructure, then we need to discuss it. That's what we're ready for. However, if transport policy continues this way, Pelinka in "NEWS" is right, of course, where – I can't quote that now, that would take too long – he says as a conlusio: In reality, all this will be lifted, because if there is ever more traffic – and a speaker of the ÖVP has made that clear – then we will drive 30 km/h on the motorways and not 160.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15979	Mr Miedl spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16003	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni has claimed two facts. First, he spoke of "tolerance limits" that do not know the law, and second, he claimed that according to Gorbach's model, a driver's license withdrawal would only be possible at 220 km/h. – Both are wrong! Federal Minister Gorbach has explicitly stated that the withdrawal limit would remain at 180 km/h. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Parnigoni: If we as legislators contribute to the misinterpretation and interpretation of laws, then I no longer understand the world! We have clearly decided in the STVO that there are maximum limits, and the law speaks of no tolerance limits. I would ask you to take note of this in future: There is no tolerance limit in the law! That's not right.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16038	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is next spoken. 5 minutes speaking time, total rest period: Seven minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16059	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy about this urgent request and also about the debate in this context, because I believe it is important and right that we constantly discuss road safety, the strengthening of road safety. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: But because we want it!]] – Mrs Moser, now I praise you, so scream Not even in between – that is, not you personally, not because of your speech, but because we can now discuss this issue in connection with your urgent question. I am also very much in favour of discussing the prevention of unnecessary traffic flows, the reduction of pollutants; no question at all. And that there can be different ways, you also have to accept that. At least that is what I also demand of you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens. I understand that one can be of the opinion, the less the speed, the less accidents, the fewer the dead, the less pollutants et cetera. There are people who are on the highways for 100 km/h and 80 km/h on the federal roads. That's all right, you can talk about it, but if someone else thinks you're right, you can accept it and try to disarm it with arguments, and don't say: These are air bubbles, this is beer table policy, you bear the blame for the death of children. One confuses the Tempo 160 with fog accidents, where 50 km/h is still too much. If you are always in favour of intellectual fairness, please, you, too, stick to it in your contributions to the debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And it's not like you're suggesting here that all 100 percent of people now adhere to the 130-km/h time limit and from the time Hubert Gorbach allows the 160 km/h on partial routes, all of them would suddenly increase the speed to 160 km/h. Then maybe this milkmaid bill you've been working on would be right that pollutants increase et cetera. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that 140, 150 and 160 km/h are still being driven on the motorways today. I also spoke to a colleague of yours and asked him: Don't you ever drive 150 km/h on the highway? And he told me honestly: Yeah, but always with abdominal pain. – In parentheses: Probably because he's afraid of being caught. As regards the argument put forward by Mr Grünewald, who said that if they drive 160 km/h, they will all be ill: I mean, constantly driving 160 km/h with abdominal pain, because you're afraid to get caught is also bad, because from the constant abdominal pain you can get a stomach ulcer. So, if I approach your line of argument, it becomes clear that one could also assume another argument. But I don't want to do that. An argument for these flexible tempo limits was suggested. I believe – but I can be mistaken; I do not claim that I have used wisdom – precisely because these tempo limits are not observed today, because they are often regarded as not relevant and not comprehensible, such a flexible tempo limit with sharp controls, with the corresponding telematic systems – that is a basic requirement – could also lead to a greater compliance with tempo limits where they are prescribed. This would be a real contribution to increasing road safety on all motorways and on all federal roads and not only where the flexible speed limits apply, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are many discussions, such as: When I see on the weekend on motorways construction sites where nothing happens, where you have only forgotten or not been able to or one is working too much that you can turn the 80-km/h-tempo Limit-signs, the panels with the limitations, though at night appropriate tempo limits et cetera apply. I think such discussions would make sense. This is not primarily a question of introducing the 160 km/h, but rather of establishing these transport accompanying measures to set up the telematic systems. You see, in practice, that where these systems already exist, where these electronic signs are then suddenly ordered instead of 130 km/h 100 or 80 and perhaps with a second information is also attributed to why this tempo limit is imposed, which is also much higher than the general tempo limit which currently applies. As the pollutants reach: Of course, we are considering alternative measures for current transport planning, for current spatial planning. Most of the pollutants in transit are there where transit traffic is guided by densely installed areas, such as in Vienna on the southeast tangent, the belt or other main traffic roads. But why were it your representatives, who have so strongly opposed the fact that the traffic flows there, where they are not brought from the road to the rails, are at least brought out of these densely cultivated areas of the big city and are improving about bypasses, or that they are also invested in research, in research, in research? All these are interesting things you could discuss. But you're putting all this up to this one measure that you're going to check if you can't introduce flexible speed limits. Mr Bundesminister, Mr Vice-Chancellor! I also think it's not useful to do long tests, set up test lines, but: Full investment in these traffic monitoring measures, in the telematics facilities, in order to introduce flexible speed limits where this is possible and necessary and also improves – that can be more than 130 km/h, but there and there also less than 130 km/h! That doesn't mean: Free ride for free citizens!, but reasonable regulations, which are then accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16120	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Mr deputies, you have a total residence period of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16141	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, do you not actually stand for speed 200 or even for any speed limit to be lifted? . I ask you to do so because, apart from one argument, you did not do anything, which would only necessarily justify having a tempo 160. [[Abg. Scheibner: I guess I explained this to you right now, didn't I?]] This one argument you brought was – Mr. Vice-Chancellor has pre-existed it, a few times it was prayed: Old rules – say: Tempo 130 – do nothing out of itself, need to be re-examined. Deregulation: Every new rule is, as it were, better than an old rule, so we do it, and that's why we try it once on a test track at tempo 160. – But one reason why you call 160 km/h and not 200 or 250, or even say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! What we have brought, on the other hand, were good reasons, I think – well-arguable reasons! – why you can’t stand for an increase of tempo 130. And these reasons are obvious: It's road safety! If you increase from 130 to 160, then the risk of fatal traffic accidents doubles, for accidents – it doubles! That's not stupid, but you can understand that in the studies! It is! If you increase from 130 to 160, the noise does not rise straight, but exponentially. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not just...!]] Where do you represent the interests of the locals?Unknown term type: "%s".? What's been called? – A route ahead of the city of Linz, at which speed 160 is to be driven. Well, Mr Kukacka – since you do not live there – we are happy to take up this debate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The people and we on the one hand, and you as the State Secretary, who then explains to the people why 160 should be driven there – I am looking forward to this debate. Tell the trailers: Free ride for free citizens, and so on. [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: Can anyone tell me why I'm always identified with 160? Can you tell me? ...unbelievable!]] Exhaust gases: It is clear that the exhaust gas pollution, the fine dust risk, is increasing exponentially. – Nevertheless, that does not prevent you from doing so! They say: Let's think about it, with all this we can get done! Fuel consumption: Fuel consumption is increasing exponentially. – That doesn’t prevent you from doing so, you still say: [[Abg. Wittauer: I need a lot from 80 to 160!]] No, we're getting hold of this with the telematics. The fuel consumption, the exhaust gases, the noise, all this you don't get under control with the telematics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Liquid of transport: Wonderful! Yeah? - We all know it: Draw harmonics effect: There is 160 driving, there can only be driven more than 100 or 130; there is a beautiful upswing that continues into the tempo 160 zone. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is pure theory!]] I would like to congratulate you on this argument and on the joy that you have with it for all the road users who are so moving on the motorways. Ten times better would be: to train even speed and road users to keep this even and quiet speed of transport – then they are much faster on the road! That may sound as ghastly as it may be, but that is actually logical. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another “schlaucherl” argument that Mr Scheuch brought – that was the “over-schlaucherl” argument! –: [[Abg. Scheibner: Please! What's that?]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] If we increase speed, the throughput gets higher. – With this argument...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16288	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16304	With this argument, Mr Scheuch, you are at the pace of 260 – only, you do not vote anyway! It's a wrong argument, and that can be proved well. [[Abg. Wittauer: (in the direction of President Mag. Prammer) What is that?]] With no help have you brought any argument!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16346	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Eva Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, on an urgent package of measures entitled 'Healthy air instead of dust.' I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[17:46:24]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16391	I will resume the negotiations on the item on the agenda. The next speaker was Mr Eder. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16415	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now continuing the budget debate – after this slightly exciting 160 km/h debate. I would like to start with the budget on the revenue side, which is an important part of the budget, and deal with one-off revenue from the federal government. A very interesting article was published yesterday in the “Wiener Zeitung, ” according to which the lawyer Rudolf Fries could “favorably strike ” in many businesses. I quote from “Bund sells family silver often extremely unreasonable” – that is what the Lord's lawyer himself says, who buys and smiles about the prices –: For example, he was able to buy 25.65 percent of Böhler-Uddeholm from the federal government. "For him, however, a bargain was the real estate package of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, which he paid at the price of 138 million 2 years ago. Euro could take over. "What the covenant sells, he sells extremely unreasonable," says the lawyer." So if that's what someone who buys says, Mr. State Secretary Finz, then you'd have to ring the alarm bells like you're wasting people's power! This is really a scandal that stands in a rather small, modest newspaper article. Do you know what's still in this article? – “Fries wants to sell everything up to the Arsenal and the Salzburg plant.” With such a sale you can make very high profits! Yes, have you been too clumsy to make such profits, Mr. State Secretary Finz? That's making an intermediary for you now? – This really does not testify to high economic competence and surprises me very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On another point mentioned in the budget speech, I would like to say a few words. In this, the Minister of Finance says that he has “set in motion Austria”. We have just seen the example of Fries, where Austria is moving. So in the budget speech, it says: “Think of the ÖBB reform with a new corporate structure, a new service law, clear savings targets and a quality improvement for the population.” Well, that's a very sudden sentence that's standing here, just: When I take the headlines of the newspapers of the last 14 days, I see that this has nothing to do with the speech of the Minister of Finance and the reality of this content, because it says: ‘Eisenbahner threatens to strike’, ‘ÖBB: Total personnel reduction, ‘ÖBB:,Infrastructure is bankruptcy mature in 2007’, ‘Haberzettl: It is possible to strike again, “ÖBB in four years” Indebted again with 10 billion”, “billion grave Brenner-Basistunnel”, “Bahn expansion plans can be changed”, says Secretary of State Kukacka. The Minister said: Brenner base tunnel costs are revised upwards. ÖBB Chief Huber says: The general transport plan is so much “for cruising”, it now has to negotiate a new railway development at all – and that is how it continues. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The reality has nothing to do with the content of the budget speech! And it is very, very worrying when the Minister of Finance thinks that he is living in a completely irregular world. Or: Asfinag – Chief Executive Officer Hecke takes his hat early. Mr. Vorm Walde at the ÖBB took his hat early. All this costs hundreds of thousands of euros to pay, for services that are no longer provided! Ladies and gentlemen! Is this the “new way of governing ”? Is that the future? If that is the future, Mr State Secretary, then we say well in Vienna: That's where Ma Liab looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16491	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16513	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I refer to the family-political aspect of the budget and, above all, to Mr Mandak's statement that this check was not covered. In addition to trying to suggest that someone who has a claim to which one has granted the claim would not get this money, which cannot at all be the talk of, but this check is not uncovered in so far as the Flaf has been misused for decades as a buffer for the budget. If only these funds that have been removed from the FLAF for many years are calculated to cover budget gaps, there can still be no mention that there is not enough money in the FLAF. In addition, the family tax compensation fund – traditionally and sadly, it has been used – is used for services financed by other budgets. For example, the school book action is actually part of education. The free movement of students is a good teaching, an extremely extensive teaching of transport policy. And the contribution payments for those in Karenz benefit pension insurance institutions. In view of this, it is not possible, if money is made available from the budget for a very specific and close core task, to say that FLAF is actually bankrupt, that unfortunately the budget has to be used, and – I would like to talk about it very briefly – that the money is missing for important things, as it was clearly used for unimportant things, as was presented. I very much regret that it is clearly true what has been stressed in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine” in recent days, namely that there is still an absolute misunderstanding of the importance of demographics, and I note that it seems to be a little better in the Federal Republic of Germany. About ten days ago, an article series on this topic was launched in the FAZ. Under the title ‘basic course for citizens. Thirty years after twelve,” Feuilleton chief Schirrmacher introduces a series of the population scientist Birg, who tries to clarify that the demographic developments that have been taking place for a long time, but whose effects are just ahead of us, will be so strong that no stone remains on the other. Birg appeals to the politicians and says they behaved like someone who knows that when the effects of his decisions occur, he is no longer in office. This is an understatement that I do not believe is already in force in Austria – it may be true of Germany. In fact, in our view, the discussion is not advanced to the extent that it is possible to see what is happening. An example of the statistics: If a pond has a square-centimetre algae in a small corner and doubles each day, then the next day it is two square-centimetres, then four square-centimetres, on 25th. Half of the pond is full day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] What's next day? - The pond's broken! And so is the demography! It will not be seen, however, that we have to do a little bit more here with many concerns that we are doing here, but in fact we have to do a lot more. In the social spheres, many have already found that the effects will be strong, but I do not think that to the extent that it actually takes place, otherwise one could not come to the very naïve idea of saving our own children and, instead, compensating for them by immigration, because – just briefly –: There are no babies, it's best to walk babies in with parents. This means that the old-age quota, which is responsible for the social burden, will be reduced only very slightly. For the Federal Republic of Germany, it was calculated how strong this immigration would have to be if the old-age quota were to remain the same by 2050, namely – we just need to divide it by 10 for Austria – incredible 188 million people! This is a concept that does not work at all; you can leave it once. My speaking time is short, but it will in any case take time to discuss this in detail in the context of these budgetary negotiations in the National Council. In order to cope with the situation, there are two things that need to be considered: A quarter of a century of false demographic developments requires three quarter of a century to correct them. That means: If we are now starting to do everything right with enormous effort, we still have to focus on more than 50 years of poor development; that is the first one. And that. Second is, but it will not be spared for us, because if we do nothing, then no stone will remain on the other side.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16580	The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16601	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit funny to discuss his budget speech with Mr Finanzminister now, although he is not here at all. [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman:The State Secretary is here!]] This is a strange G’s layer. But please, it is supposed to be that we are discussing a budget without the competent Minister, who has given the budget speech, being present. [[Abg. Neudeck: You are not financial speakers either...!]] – Mr Finz, if you can remember, did not give the budget speech, that was the Minister of Finance himself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] And we are discussing with the Minister for Finance, because he has given the budget speech. Mr Wittauer, you should have forgotten this from yesterday on, so I would remind you once again. Ladies and gentlemen! I was not even disappointed by the Minister's budget speech. I'm telling you quite frankly, I didn't expect anything else. I really didn't expect anything else! I did not expect the Minister of Finance to address the situation of people with disabilities in Austria in connection with social aspects and their improvement. I did not expect the Minister of Finance to address the situation of civil servants, now that the Civil Service Reform Commission has been completed and clearly established that the flat-rate remuneration must be adjusted in line with the basic service providers and that the food allowance must also be increased to € 13.60 per month. I did not expect it: neither from his speech nor from the Minister of Finance who may want it personally. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What has surprised me, however, is that in the budget zero – I emphasize: zero cent – there are resources to be able to implement these projects. Mr State Secretary, I am not saying: Do you point out to the Minister that this does not happen anyway and that it probably does not matter to him anyway, but was it not planned that in 2006 at least there would be a fee for the care allowance, in other words, a valorization that was not just a one-time story for the year 2005, but that it was clear that there was also an evaluation in 2006? In the budget, Mr Finz, I find nothing of it. – You nod with your head, that is: There won't be any. But if that is not going to happen, I wonder why the Minister of Finance asked himself here yesterday and said: No cuts with me, no new load package with me! – So really, you just don’t think that’s possible! If you do not valorize the care money in 2006, then of course this is a reduction because simply the realities are different! I do not need to tell you now how high the index increase is in the area, but if the loss of value is not balanced, then of course it is a reduction. There will also be a reduction in the care allowance in 2006 because there is a non-valorization of the care allowance. I'm really tired of it! I'm tired of having to listen to the Minister of Finance, which he actually remembers to do it – but he does it in the final effect! He's never been credible for me, but that he thinks people are so stupid that they don't get it, that's really covered. Mr State Secretary, that's not the case, it's not going to happen any more! What to do You are now – and I ask you, Mr State Secretary, because you have also been involved in the budget – how should it continue in the field of civil service innovation if there is no cent to do so? What resources will be used to finance the increases in lump sum subsidies if the budget does not contain anything? By what means... [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: From the department budget!]] Please? [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: From the department budget and not from ours!]] That's it? But I didn't find anything there either. I'm telling you, it's nothing in the Ministry of the Interior's budget. Don't think I'm so stupid that I can't read budget! [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] There's nothing in there! I can bring the issue to you now, and then show it to me! Relationship You put the booklet in, show it to me right now! Don't say, "Yes, that's so," if it's not. Don't think I'm stupid... [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Whatever you assume, there's nothing in there. Just as little is inside to increase the catering fee. Where's that? Mr. State Secretary, where's that? Maybe you got it in your head, too? The increase... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] No, he doesn't even know that, but the main thing is, we're getting a civil service novice. The impact should actually come into force from mid-2005. Mr State Secretary! I mean, on such a budget you can really give up! I guarantee you: If I had calculated in my company today the way you're giving it to us here, I swear to you, I would have done my job, I don't think, overturned! I didn't get through that! But you have a greater responsibility; this is a state budget, Mr State Secretary. How you deal with it and how you put people behind the light, Mr. State Secretary, that's not possible! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Well, hey!]] [[Further calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] You do not even need to get upset here if I say "to give light" because these figures, which the Secretary of State has now told me, are inside the budget. [[Abg. Murauer: Talk time is required!]] They're not in there, so it's a back-light lead, and it just doesn't work. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Speaking time!]] People should know that, too, because you've always talked about your credibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But Your credibility is not worth anything, because you no longer have – and at the beginning you had only a very small one. But she's been gone a long time. I guarantee you: People got it, and you get the bill! I'm looking forward to this day today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16785	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16806	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The coming year, the year 2006, will be an important year for Austria: In the first half of 2006, Austria will take over the EU Presidency and will thus be in the international spotlight, and in the second half of 2006, there will be national elections in Austria, all the unacknowledged. We will certainly not make Mr Matznetter happy and put forward the elections to which he has just asked from this point of view so that he can become a minister. Mr. Matznetter, a tip from me: Many, many years ago, there was a young man in Germany who stood in front of the Federal Chancellor's Office, squeezing and yelling at the door: “I want to go in there!” I think he's called Schröder. If you're already starting to shake at the various ministries at the door and call: “I want to go in,” perhaps some door opens in 30 or 40 years, and it's said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] “Now you can come”. Only to be unfortunately You'll be retired. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You're funny!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Yeah, if he likes to, I've shown him a way. Dear ladies and gentlemen! All the more important is the budget for the coming year, which our Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser presented to us yesterday. At European level, many countries are still struggling with the stability criteria for the euro. In particular, the large countries, such as Germany, France or Italy, are still struggling with their deficit, which is not so easy to get under the 3-percent burden. You don't have to be a prophet to realize they're going to fight for a long time. I'm saying this without any hammers. The deficit of these countries is our economic growth, and if the Germans were to save even more, that would cost many jobs in Austria. We feel this very painful when it comes to tourism. Therefore, from an Austrian point of view, we have made the only right thing, and in the last five years we have first limited the largest spending chunks and thus given us a margin of time. We now use this scope, as promised, for the discharge of Austrians, for the relief of workers and for the relief of businesses. This is important for Austria's economic location, because many entrepreneurs move to countries where wages are lower than we do. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What do you say to...?]] But the tax reform already works in Austria. All workers and employees feel this personally or, more precisely, in their wallet. We also feel the tax reform in the enterprises. Just one example: Russia's fifth largest oil producer is moving its headquarters from a Caribbean island to Austria. This means that there will be new jobs here or this group will create new jobs here and will also pay taxes in Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] – In the past, at your time, we have still seen jealously in our neighbouring countries, such as Switzerland. Now these countries come to us and get some tips from us. That all in all shows that we are on the right track. The reforms of recent years have been as important as the discharges that are now beginning to take place. If the SPÖ and Green colleagues are honest, they must acknowledge that we are on the right track and that there is no alternative.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16889	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16910	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the discussion and the debate today, we have heard more often that the budget speech was a series of floskels. There's nothing to add to it in itself, that's what it was. But what annoyed me particularly as a woman was the fact that the Minister of Finance has always chosen only the male form. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have been very careful, for example, to speak exclusively of older workers, as if there were not enough older workers inside Austria, who are suffering from many problems, also thanks to the effects of your policy, very much appreciated ladies and gentlemen! The use of the language of gender is completely unknown to the Minister for Finance – and I think that also the gentlemen here in the banks of the ÖVP and FPÖ Members – and this is, of course, also the budget. [[Abg. Grossruck: Would you have agreed to the budget if...?]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! For women's affairs and for equality policy, just as in the previous year, €6 million is in the proposal, not even 1 percentage point of the health and women's sector. If you look at the total budget, you can reach a maximum of one hundredth of a percentage point. I break that down to the number of women, so that means per woman 1,48 €, very valued ladies and gentlemen! 1,48 €, and we have a high-ranking, “smart” increase compared to the previous year, namely by 2 cents. That's this federal government! It is clear what the women of this Federal Government are really worth: not too much! [[Abg. Großruck: There have never been as many ministers as now!]] You probably don't believe what you said now – but you should be. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's it? Can you expect?]] I'm coming back to the €6 million, and now we're looking at the distribution. Of the €6 million, 3.6 million is for funding. And if I look back at what that means for women, that's only 75 cents per woman, so not even 1 € – very valued women, I think you should remember that! It should also be noted that women's promotion has been frozen; it has been put on ice by Mr Grasser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Not even the inflation rate, Mr Mitterlehner, has been covered. You should remember that! Maybe that would be an incentive for you to do something more for the women in your businesses, that wouldn't be bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is particularly annoying about me in this regard is the fact that Mrs Rauch-Kallat agreed to this budget, although she would actually have to represent the concerns of women in this Republic. In this context, Skurril is also when you look at what you want to do with these 3.6 million €: One would like to put in place measures to close income shears, to put in place measures to integrate migrants, to make a mentor offensive in the public service. Yes, I am very interested, even if you are a little bored now, Mr State Secretary: How do you want to do that? – Explain this to me! I can't imagine that with this amount you can only do something for women in the right direction. I can't imagine that. It turns out again quite clearly that there is a real cuddly budget. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Women have once again proved that the women here in Austria do not count for this government. They really stand for a very conservative women's policy. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why do we have so many women in the government?]] I can tell you that the women in Austria will not like this! First of all, women want to reconcile work and family, they want to have real equality, and they do not want to be pushed back behind the stove by you or perhaps just condemned to earn it. [[Cries at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is what women no longer want, and you will see, Mr President, at the next election, women will be revenged for it. Women are the majority in this country, and they are also decisively responsible for the outcome of an election in our country. I'll finish. – You can hold something: Since you are in the government of ÖVP and FPÖ, it has become very cold in Austria, not because we constantly have minus degrees outside, but because you are making a social policy that makes the poor in this country even poorer and gives women even less opportunities to reconcile work and family, for example. [[Abg. Neudeck:... after 30 years of social democratic government...!]] The cold outside, ladies and gentlemen, will pass in a few weeks, it will be spring. Take a good example of this and go too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17051	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17073	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I am very pleased with State Secretary Finz, because we are talking today about the budget – and not just about the budget speech of the Minister of Finance. I think we should talk about content and not act as we do now, Mrs Haidlmayr. It first discussed for two minutes whether the Minister for Finance is here or not. It is facts that this is set out in the 2006 budget. I believe that all people who have the privilege of living with us in Austria are actually among the happy people. This government is making good environmental policy, good transport policy, good security policy – and above all, ladies and gentlemen, a good family policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It is internationally recognized that especially Austria has been working exemplaryly in family policy since we are free people inside. For 30 years you have had opportunity, you have brought nothing together; we are there for five years, and we have done a lot. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Mittermüller has once again explained to you exactly how you were doing with child money and how we, in particular the women who are free, have continued to go this way, even though you have vilified it, although you have said: an uncovered check, and God knows what else. It has come to pass, and that is enforceable. We have that; there you can say what you want. We could be sorry. Shame is usually an opposition story, but actually we should be sorry if I imagine this: 30 years of missing financial policy! We do not need to discuss this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But if I imagine the red group coming out of there, the Minister for Finance and Budgetary Policy, if I imagine what we have done: 7.4 billion € in interest that we pay back; if I imagine the over 130 billion € large debt mountain: and then this government makes such a super budget policy that we will drag the mountain that you have accumulated, and we will also take it down! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Until you get back from the SPÖ, it will take a very, very long time because people will not forget what you have had the responsibility for. Especially – which is much more disgraceful – you are not even willing to take responsibility for this even today. They push them away as if it had never been. In the last five years, we've been making politics, but you're pretending that the entire debt mountain you've caused has been made by us. You have to answer that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Stand by, say out there, too, that the Austrians still have €7 billion each year to pay on interest! Nothing came away. At the time, the Austrians recognized this, and they made a change to a government that did a lot of work and did something. That's something I think is where substance is inside. Austria is one of the safest countries, one of the most social countries, and one of the richest countries in particular. I think if you summarize that... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: What did you do?]] There you can scream as you want, that's facts! Let's just look at our neighbours. With your financial policy, we would be where the Italians are today, or where the Greeks are. Then we would probably have to disappear a budget that we comply with EU criteria. Then we might still be where Germany is. So stay. The facts, Mr Deputies! That's what we did: We brought this country up in the ranking, we get international recognition for this work. That is why I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for this good work. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is indifferent what measures are being taken. I still remember the zero deficit, what was there for a kid: Zero deficit, an insanity, we have to spend, we have to invest in Austria, there has to be some implementation there; we do not need the zero deficit! Then difficult times came, there was also a rethinking with us. We have always called for this tax reform, and then we are making the tax reform: for people, for everyone, for small businesses, for industry, for farmers, for pensioners, for all people. We also ensure jobs with the reduction of Kest, the economic location of Austria, we are strengthening it, not only in terms of job security, but also in terms of creating jobs. And what are you doing? – You start crying again! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. So I'm not surprised that...!]] Now, at once, you remind the Minister of Finance every day that he once promised the zero deficit. If you look across the border where red-green is at work: Please, we don't want us to get over 3% and don't know where we want to go! And if you look at the unemployment figures, alone in Germany, you can see the headline: Germany no longer knows where to go! With the policy of Red-Green it would be the same here, we would stand out there and say Austria no longer knows where – if you had the responsibility here in the country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sadness: 350 000 unemployed...!]] I can also remind you that there was once a Minister of Finance Edlinger, 1999, there was... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The tax rate was 3 percent higher than it is today. There too we did something. What you're always asking up and where you've always said, "That's what we're doing," we've implemented in many areas. You promised, but you didn't know what you were doing. . We know what we're doing, and we're gonna do it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll give you something on the way. Of course, I know it's very bitter to sit on the opposition bench. We do our work both in the opposition and in the government. We don't have the bitterness, we didn't care for the pity. We have always dealt with concrete issues during the time of opposition, and we have implemented what we have called for in the time of opposition in the government. Take an example of this, make constructive policy: also in opposition! Believe me, people might be worth it to you. Just as you sit in here, and as you conduct politics – I take the greens with you – you can't be chosen at all. That is why 2006 will again be a great disappointment for you, and it will be the same here again: They will demand it, but we will implement the things we promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17215	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17236	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Mr Wittauer – where is he? – obviously took the budget speech of Minister of Finance Grasser as an example: [[Abg. Wittauer: There!]] Speak, speak, speak! [[Abg. Fauland: We already heard this today! It's not new!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That was not good at the first speech and is not right now!]] What was new about yesterday's speech by the Minister of Finance? – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, he may not have applied quite as thick as the budget before, that is, half a year before, but if you look at it more precisely – and I want to do that already, and it is necessary to address this budget speech – you can see which words were used there. Federal Minister Grasser speaks of a “culture of thought”, and this thinking of this Minister of Finance is already very significant. It is self-evident if you take a few quotes out here. I mention here only the example at the end, where Federal Minister Grasser wrote, that “everyone has the chance to fulfill his dreams”. – In this visionary dream reality, Minister Grasser will probably think of his own homepage, his vacations or whatever, but in this country there are social differences, social misunderstandings, problems for the poor and for the poorest who need to be helped, we cannot read about it. [[Abg. Amon: That's not true at all!]] I will tell you how Minister Grasser deals specifically with what this tax reform brings. I quote: “This gives Austrian taxpayers 11 days more freedom.” – Ladies and gentlemen, this is a gesture of redundancies, a way of formulation, which I believe is simply unacceptable! The formulation “even days less work for the state ” also somehow expresses a very peculiar relationship. What does that mean: less for the state? – That sounds like the state is a kind of prison, and if you get out of this prison, you have more freedom again, you have more quality of life again. The state as our common social policy, this responsibility for the common good expressed by the state, which we must also bear together, is obviously not an issue for Grasser. [[Abg. Zweytick: He already has to read that out there, he can't say that!]] This “culture of thinking” finds its special rainfall in it – which has been repeatedly addressed – when Federal Minister Grasser speaks, speaks and reads this budget speech at a very essential point, namely, where tax evasion is concerned, where it is said that tax evasion is not a cavalier crime, but theft at the general public, something like an empty place, has almost a failure, this written passage in speaking, when reading. That's significant! Apparently, Grasser is just drawn to these sentences. I also find significant and interesting when a finance minister at the entrance of the whole speech quotes a philosopher and looks at these philosophers, I assume, somehow also refers to content or feels it is close. But if you look at that exactly – as always you can stand with Karl Popper, at least he was a realist who made the falsification of theories and predictions a very central element in his theories and in his scientific research – then, I have to say, this is also a fauxpa's bad thing if you just put something at the beginning, just because it's a quote, and actually with the philosophy, with the thought course has little to do with it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Here I would like to take a brief look at Karl Popper from the Beck’s series, which, as I mean, is significant: Poppers legacy cannot exist in a system, not in a canon of finished knowledge. It is in the non-ending process of questioning. Criticism is an activity that needs responsible citizens, someone who is willing to approach ruling views and take a skeptical attitude against one's own favorite beliefs. - Quote. This has been the attitude of Karl Popper, and we miss these in all forms with our Minister of Finance, who has in no way expressed himself skeptically, critically, self-critically to his theses and predictions. This is also the criticism of many speeches that have been made here today. It's always been laden, we're on the right track, there's no alternative, but: On critical arguments of the opposition – and there were really good arguments that have fallen today – was not received. I would now like to address something that can be found in concrete terms in the area of the whole agricultural policy. In my opinion, Mr Grillitsch was one of the few of the government factions that have been criticizing here, there have only been many speakers of the ÖVP who have not heard this criticism, I believe. When you listen to him exactly, you know what he said, namely: There can be no more EU with less money. And that's why I give him the right. We are in favour of the EU being equipped with resources and remaining. Mr Grillitsch then also argued why this is so for him. [[Abg. Neudeck: What does that mean?]] [[Abg. Fauland: More net payment!]] In concrete terms, this means maintaining the EU funding framework of 1.27 percent. We need the funding framework for the European Union in order to handle future projects. Then, when it comes to our own interests, namely rural development, the rural development programme, the EIA is also ready to pay taxes. These are tax funds, which are recovered from the EU level in Austria, which benefit from rural development. Ladies and gentlemen! In one case, the Minister of Finance has no ==References====External links==* Official website February this year, compared to the “Salzburger Nachrichten” that 640 million € are still open to rural development for 2006. You can also read this on the homepage of the Minister for Agriculture. I have expected that the budget speech of the Minister of Finance will also clarify this aspect, that it is clear that these funds will be made available by the EU, for if that were not the case, this budget would not be in the back and in the front. . But we will certainly have to talk about it in the detailed debate. Finally, so that you can see that we have visions and concepts – and we have already discussed many in the committees –: We Greens want an environmental and social tax reform as well as a fair distribution of the tax burden, as investment in education, research and environmental technology, ladies and gentlemen, will ensure long-term prosperity in our country and therefore serve the population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17370	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputy's friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17391	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is on the right track, is on a successful path. A comparison with other EU countries makes us sure and proves it to us. Comparisons should be made. The policy of our Federal Government under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel makes Austria more competitive, modern, social, sustainable and just. The 2006 budget, presented to us yesterday by Minister of Finance Grasser, proves this. The tax reform and economic packages have made Austria more competitive. As one of many positive examples, I would like to mention the Innviertel region in my constituency. There are many companies in the border area from neighbouring Bavaria. This does not particularly please Bavaria, but brings us several hundred jobs in the Inn quarter. The reduction of corporate tax to 25 percent and the rapid handling of processes by less bureaucracy and, of course, also our hard-working employees have made Austria a popular economic location. From neighbouring Germany, the economy of which Austria is strongly dependent, one looks at Austria with envy. The Bavarian Prime Minister Stoiber and international media regard Austrian economic and labour market policy as an example. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that Austria is significantly more attractive for companies as an economic location than our neighbours shows us a location analysis of the German “manager magazine” – it has already been pointed out –: 1 207 regions in all 25 EU countries have been analysed, with the result that all Austrian regions are located in front of the best German regions. Four Austrian regions even managed to reach the top 10. The 2006 budget will also boost the economy. Despite a tax relief of €2.5 billion in 2005 and 2006, the deficit will fall from 1.9 to 1.7 percent in the coming year. This Federal Government has made the largest tax reform in the history of the Second Republic, keeping the deficit small, while indebtedness is growing rapidly in various other European countries. In Germany, there was a shortage of 3.7 percent last year – and that has been three years in a row. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, unemployment is rising slightly in Austria, but is still low compared to our neighbours. In 2004, more goods were exported by 13 percent or 10.2 billion € than in 2003. The demand for Austrian goods abroad is increasing rapidly. Austria is one of the best countries in Europe with an unemployment rate of 4.5 percent. The EU average is 8.9 percent, and in Germany it is even 12 percent or 5.2 million people who are unemployed. And who is ruling in Germany? - We all know: Red-green. This shows that our active growth and employment policy is the right policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There, the opposition can still bet against this federal government: The figures clearly speak for themselves. The number of employees in Austria continues to rise: Compared with February 2004, it rose by 31,000 people, and in Upper Austria it even increased by 8,800 people. The 2006 budget focuses on security of the future. We invest in education and research, because skilled workers guarantee that Austria will continue to remain a competitive and innovative economic location in the future. Education and culture expenditure is rising by €62 million. For colleges, €15 million will be spent next year; seven new high-school courses will be launched this year. Austria must continue to be an attractive location for high-tech industry companies in the future. Many newly founded HTLs are very important here, for example in the Innviertel the HTL for mechanical engineering and material technology. I would also like to stress particularly the investment in agriculture. In terms of sustainability, the 2006 budget provides € 62.1 million more expenditure on co-financing to EU programmes, environmental programmes and compensation payments. It is particularly important that the 3-billion-€ package remains secure. This creates security, trust and jobs. The rural area is particularly important to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the tax reform and with various other measures, we have significantly relieved the population of Austria. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! We all see that this Federal Government makes Austria more successful, competitive and innovative. This path will continue with this Federal Estimate for 2006. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17486	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17513	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the first reading of a budget is also an opportunity to deal with the budget speech of the Minister for Finance and also with the draft budget. However, this makes it a little more difficult, because the Minister of Finance did not have much to do with the 2006 draft budget in his speech yesterday, but there was only a series of common places. But if you look at the whole thing, you can see at least one basic idea that is apparent through this draft budget, namely the principle of hope. We economists know that this is generally a poor economic policy advisor, but: This basic idea, as has been said, nevertheless draws on this draft. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But pessimism too!]] That's what we'll talk about, Mr. stupid. If, for example, the alleged - I quote - “clear financial and economic strategy” – quote – the Federal Government is based on, among other things, more public investment, more growth through public investment, but ultimately only the principle of hope, because Austria is now 50 percent of the European Union, the Union of the 25th. – Mr State Secretary, these figures are official figures that you cannot discuss away, even if you are still so skeptical and doubt them! For example, Mr President, I would also like to make a bold appeal to the necessary optimistic attitude of the economy. On the other hand, this has been borne by the principle of hope, as the latest Wifo Economic Report has not yet been included in Mr Finanzminister's budget speech, and not in the budget, which is also based on old figures, for in January 2005, for example, the order situation in the industry itself was assessed much worse than at the end of 2004. The confidence in long-term business expectations has also fallen significantly. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is based on the Wifo forecast!]] This is the economic report of the Economic Research Institute, which you co-finance, among other things. There's nothing we can do about the opposition. On the other hand, domestic demand would be an essential stabilizer of the economy, but with regard to consumer confidence, the Wifo creates a devastating result at all if one deals with a biterl with the cautious diction that the Wifo uses. The Wifo – I quote – writes: So far, the signs of acceleration of internal demand growth have been weak. - Quote. And this please after five years of black-blue or blue-black – depending on how you want it – economic policy! Since it also makes little use if the ORF with expensive campaigns tried to suggest to taxpayers that the tax reform would bring them an additional vacation, an additional car, additional expensive purchases. [[Abg. Bucher: Eleven days more freedom!]] Rather, this is part of the so-called Gloggnitz Syndrome, for which we are very grateful in tourism – by the way, tourism appears only with a single word in this budget speech, but we are already used to it – but the truth also looks different there. The necessary counter-financing of the tax reform, as well as the 2005 and 2006 budgets, will remove a significant burden link; independent economic experts already count the gap at €9 to 10 billion. Not a little thing either. And I think, honestly, that the Minister of Finance, when he says that he is not thinking of a package of savings, because what comes to the people is not a package for a long time, but a whole package service. I also believe that taxpayers would like to return and exchange these famous and notorious “eleven days more freedom” quoted against 354 days of imprisonment in this federal economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget speech was, among other things, under the motto “winning the future.” – I think it would be a failure to work on the future than to give in to the hope that you will win the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17601	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17622	Madam President. Poštovane lady i gospodo! Now I did not pay close attention to Mr Hoscher, whether he said that the word “Tourism” did not occur at all or just once. [[Abg. May. Hoscher: Once!]] Aha, once. – The word “security” has occurred several times. Four times I found it in the search program and then in reading through, but always in connection with “social security”, but it never happened in yesterday’s budget speech of the Minister of Finance in connection with “public security”, that is, beyond the “pension security reform”, as it was called by the Federal Minister of Finance Grasser. That is what I am talking about now is the question of how this federal government – we always have to imagine that this budget is planned by the end of 2006 – intends to implement and implement what you, in part, legally made a fact a few months ago, for example, the combination of police and gendarmerie. I see in those areas where I have almost given my heavy weight in the review of the documents, namely in the Interior and Justice Divisions, only one thing: All over the place! Ladies and gentlemen! In the interior area, although the Minister did so yesterday in the budget speech – now I know why – he would have had to say something about it, in 2006 he would have had to give 952 jobs less. That one does not say such a thing in a budget speech may be humanly comprehensible, at least politically it is a bad misbehavior, for it was deception, as the speech was designed yesterday. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It doesn't look different in the judicial centre. Never before have the number of prisoners in Austrian prisons been so high, but the 2006 budget is less than 124 jobs – and that in the judicial institutions, in concrete terms. [[Abg. Zweytick: Because there's no place in the hold anyway!]] I wonder, What is the Federal Minister for Finance and the State Secretary, Finz, what is the overall value of this Federal Government for public security? A mention in the budget speech not, but the figures of the budget – and that has already been said today, in the figures the policy is expressed – show quite clearly: Public security is a stepchild of budgetary policy! If I now refer to a very small part of the area for which representatives of the Federal Government have just made public announcements to solve, so to speak, a mistake that causes those affected on many sides, namely, in the area of penitentiary execution with the overcrowded and dangerous prisons and on the question of the acceleration of asylum procedures, I cannot discover, even in the light of all taxes, any approach that could be achieved. And this is totally contrary to the announcements made by Mrs Miklauch and Mrs Prokop. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not yet talking about such things as crime prevention. The word 'prevention' appears in the paragraph of Mr Minister's speech, which has given particular meaning to it because it has left some things out there. So the word “prevention” is already present – and in so far as it is something like justice policy or public security policy. This is the only place! Federal Minister Grasser wrote: “It is our duty and responsibility to increase prevention and ensure fair competition.” As well: “The honest and virtuous need our protection and our full support.” It always depends on what angle you see it from. The “loyal and virtuous”, yes, very well, and the honest and virtuous are when I have in mind public security and take over this word picture, probably those who are threatened by crime, who should be protected, and those who also use what is called public service in the field of security administration and executive. I do not dare to imagine how this budget will be achieved, because that would be a dangerous idea. One last thing, as our women's spokespersons and their colleagues from the other groups are not in the process of this first reading, is a curiousness of the interior area when it comes to describing the gender aspect in the documents. Gender aspect is clearly understood in the interior resort – you can write what you want, but what the interior resort writes about with regard to the gender aspect –: Intervention agencies against violence. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a misunderstanding of what we call gender aspect in budgeting – and this is still in a place led by a woman! - I don't think that's good. But Mrs Prokop has the chance to correct this. She's supposed to let this be done simply, because the Minister of Finance is male. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17687	The next item is the report by Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17709	Madam President. Minister! [[Abg. May. Kogler: What are three four-liners in Euro?]] Dear Mr Kogler! [[Abg. Dr. Een: Please, none at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer had been out here earlier, motivating that the government was spending a lot of money “for propaganda”. – Mr Krainer, I can correct you, that is not for propaganda, but for advertising, because propaganda makes others for us, and it is free. If I now bring you a few quotes from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine” then the government has paid nothing for them, but it has found objective journalists in which we differ from Germany, for example. Quote: “As a financial model for Germany, the country is currently all good.”– It is not Luxembourg, not the Netherlands, but Austria. The “FAZ” also wrote: Austria, compared to Germany, is in a quite comfortable position. While new debt will be the highest next year with 1.9 percent of gross domestic product since the start of the middle-right government, the small economy will still be among the less poor households in the euro area. From the small attachment, from the rider of the general German post-war welfare system, one has become the autonomous success model. – Quotes end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is the assessment, not of the opposition that comes not from the government, but of – I say this again – objective German observers. The “FAZ” also particularly praises our tax reform – I quote –: Undoubtedly, a major throw is the urgent need to reduce corporate tax from 34 to 25 percent as a result of increased location competition with the new EU members. Unlike Germany, companies in Austria are not taxed in addition to commercial taxes. Praise also deserves the new group taxation. With this, Austria has probably the state-of-the-art corporate tax law for European conditions, not only because of its favourable geographical position as a hub between Western and Eastern Europe. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what the Federal Government wanted with the tax reform. We are being judged abroad in the way we deserve it, that is, positive. The fact that the opposition is against it lies in the nature of the matter. However, in view of objective assessments, it would also be appropriate to recognise this. However, the opposite is the case! Mr Matzenetter said again today: The tax reform only brings something to the rich, nothing to the poor! – Mr Matzenetter... [[Abg. Dr. One: His name is Ma tz nicer!]] Sorry: Mr. Matznetter, here speaks against better knowledge – or he does not know himself. As a company, I would at least think if I heard what Matznetter said, whether I would take him as a tax advisor. He claims that we would promote the rich, and he knows very well that this tax reform will give us a competitive advantage that we can acquire from foreign investors and thus create jobs! That is why this Federal Government is doing: creating, maintaining, developing jobs! This is the big goal – and not to supposedly make any entrepreneurs even richer! This is a childish “argument! ” Don't be angry with me, that must be said once! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I cannot now go into the budget speeches of Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Gusenbauer for reasons of time. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It's easy!]] But it was really pathetic today. By Mr. Van der Bellen I understand that he was somewhat aggressive against Mr. Finanzminister, because if you saw yesterday in the “Time in Picture 2” the discussion where Mr. Van der Bellen did not have the slightest spark of an opportunity, he might have been somewhat in revanche mood to Minister Grasser today and put it in here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something about it!]] [[Abg. Brosz: What did you look at yesterday? The “Beine Maya ”?]] Today, Gusenbauer is assessed in the “Kurier”: “Alfred Gusenbauer revealed quite a little spirit as he fell to the number...” – and so on. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What is it about? I don't know!]] So, ladies and gentlemen! The speeches of the opposition leaders have been very misjudged; they have also been. Read it! I'll be right there. Mrs Csörgits mentioned the spring earlier and said that it was getting warmer again and so on. – Yes, we all want it to get warmer outside. I can imagine Mr. Zweytick, our wine maker, going through the vineyard with Mr. Gartlehner, who has a second residence with him, a dear friend of mine and bee expert – Mr. Kogler watch out for S’! –, see how the whole thing flourishes, and that both send a wishful prayer to heaven – if two want the same thing, it doesn’t always have to be the same – and that might mean maybe: Oh, Lord, do ours. Don’t get us mad – and get us the cast farmer!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17864	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Ein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17885	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Grossruck's more half-happy speech, I should like to say that I would like to fully acknowledge you in at least one respect, Mr Deputies: You know at least what newspapers you need to read that represent the same views as you. That's happening to you, you can always be happy. You just shouldn't believe that's the truth. It's just your opinion. This is also nice if you have that, but it is not the truth, but above all your opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, after a lot of talk has already been done today, to go back to the subject of budget and, by the way, to leave the path of Großruck, who has not dealt with the budget at all, and to ask a few questions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is my speech!]] Thank you, Mr Kogler! . I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give me his attention because it is about questions that I ask myself how you would actually answer them. In order to make it easier, I would like to take a statement from the Minister of Finance in his budget speech yesterday, in a hypothetical way, saying: Let us assume that – and then ask you about two examples of what you are actually saying about this. The Minister of Finance said yesterday: Under this Federal Government and under it as Minister of Finance, there will be no savings package in line with the budget you have presented to us now. - Good. Question No one: May I invite you to tell me whether you would also confirm this more generally, namely simply confirming that a federal government in office in 2007, or a Finance Minister in office in 2007, would not consider a savings package necessary in accordance with what you leave behind after 2006. Would you still confirm that in this general form? - Good. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Yes, sure!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Cute!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That was no question!]] I'm very glad. However, I do not believe that you are very well advised with this agreement. Question two: Let's take an example. If we look at the budget, we note that investments for infrastructure investments have been reduced to the extent that they come out of the budget. It should be noted, on the other hand, that where investment is to be made, i.e. in the railway infrastructure, where credit is to be increased by rail. I think this is an interesting approach, but you just want to ask: Is it actually foreseen in your eyes that the ÖBB will eventually repay these debts? And may I ask you if this is not the case: Who's supposed to pay for it? Can you tell me who's paying it at the end? [[State Secretary Dr. Finz:...State liability!]] I asked: Who pays? Let me give you another example. With this budget, you will show that you expect the health insurance companies to produce an end of €250 million next year. They have already been made aware this morning that the main association expects it to be €409 million. After all, this is a difference of just over €150 million, so roughly speaking: 2 billion schilling old money bill. This will continue in the following years. The question is: Are you expecting that the health development of the Austrians will take place, which, according to the future, will reduce the expenditure of the health insurance companies? [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: The estimates of the health insurance companies are too high!]] They take the estimates of the health insurance companies as “too high. ” But the question is – let us assume that their €250 million would vote – that this will also rise according to their figures! Do you think that's gonna be good again, because people suddenly don't get sick? Do you think anyone's gonna have to pay for it at the end of the day? Do you think someone's gonna have to pay? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That's no question!]] May I They ask: Who? [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: The Health Reform!]] And may I ask when to pay. – Mr Finz, I find it “wonderful” to you. Let me ask you one last question: Do you believe that in 2007, if you are here in the National Council, you will speak of the time when the liberals led the government? (Hurtiness and applause at SPÖ.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18027	The next item is the report by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18048	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen who are still enduring! I would like to go through the budget speech and also over the budget, because I am responsible for several matters or feel responsible. The issue of tourism has already been raised by Mr Hoscher; I have not seen whether the word “tourism” is in the budget. I have only seen that the budget data is being rewritten, and we have already asked last year for the budget debate – that was only in November – how sustainable tourism looks like with eco-tourism. We've got it. At that time, the Lapidar Budget Committee decided that the budgetary approaches should be continued. Ladies and gentlemen, you can guess how high the budget targets for promoting sustainable tourism are. – It's exactly 100 000 €. It is also appropriate that the 2003 tourism report, which has been available for a three-quarters period, has not yet been discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. This gives a very significant light to the ‘weight’ attached to this industry by the Ministry, an industry which is at least one of the largest in Austria. So this is a “orchideen topic” for this government, and so it looks like it. There is a jungle of funding, money for everything possible and impossible, but there are no bundled measures, no measures for the new markets in the former East, which are now being treated in a stepmotherly manner, nor for guests from other countries who are still treated as guests “second class”. It is, by the way, that this non-employment with tourism may harm us at least as much as we might – I say – be able to benefit from major events, which are now so highly advertised. I have to say that the 2001 Ski World Championship in St. Johann for tourism due to the enormous failure of “normal” guests has actually brought more damage than benefits, once quite apart from ecological sustainability. Environmental sustainability: The subject of the environment was worth exactly one sentence in the Minister's budget speech, and here says: “Ecology and sustainable economy are important to us. We spend €30 million more on climate protection agreed in Kyoto.” That's exactly what's been promised for three years. Why this doesn't work is not being investigated. After all, with 30 percent above the agreed target, we are far away from being able to achieve this goal in 2012. But even worse is the lack of climate protection in the visions of the Minister of Finance. There is no project in the field of environmental and climate protection at all. This, of course, is also reflected in the actions taken by Minister Pröll in the EIA Act and in environmental ignorance when it comes to budgeting for 2006. It just doesn't happen anymore. On the subject of financial compensation, regions and municipalities: There are nice numbers shown to us. More needs allocations are promised to the weak communities, and in the case of municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, this is indeed a major step forward. However, I have to tell you that at the last municipal meeting in Dorfgastein, I learned that about the same amount that we now receive in increased allocations of needs is going to be practically the same again: to be taken on the side of the Federal Government for the financing of hospitals. Therefore, one feels a little bit teased in the congregations. We have more and more tasks to deal with – and have less and less money at our disposal. The drinking tax dispute that I don't want to address for long now is prolonged and will be signed with €1.2 billion. These €1.2 billion are completely lacking in the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18125	The next speaker was Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18151	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! – Two, three gentlemen are still here. – We have heard a lot, per and counter to the budget estimate, ideas that you can pick up or reject. I would like to talk about the budget, but also about ideas that support the budget that are creative. If we celebrate a birthday, start a new year, celebrate a anniversary – what will we first wish for? – Health. You're supposed to be okay. You're supposed to stay healthy. Being healthy and staying healthy is the first thing that lies with the Austrians when they are asked for their wishes. And they are top riders in Europe when it comes to satisfaction with their health system in Austria. 83.4 percent of Austrians consider this system to be excellent. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] The reasons are clear. We all have free access to the possibilities that medicine offers today, to our healing, to the investigations and to the research so that we can stay healthy. There is no two-class medicine – and this despite the increasing cost of this medical development and the greater number of people who can use this health system. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallathat with the health reform set the course. The 2006 estimate, which provides for €628.260 million in this chapter, guarantees that the system can also be maintained. It is also based on good columns. The idea is to promote health, ensure quality, innovation, structural reforms and finance. In addition to this, some examples cover a larger part: for example, the Federal Fund for Hospital Finance with €411 million, for health care with €60 million and for benefits to health and social insurance with €33 million. But let me take up an idea in this context and emphasize it in particular, namely the idea of health prevention, which will definitely help; this is the initiative “Fit for Austria” by State Secretary Karl Schweitzer. This project of the Federal Chancellery and the Austrian Federal Sports Organisation will also be considered with €700 000 in the budget estimate in 2006. That's great, because this project is seen under the motto of lifelong sports. So sport as a service provider in the health system! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It should benefit people in all ages of life, in all stages of life: in preschool, very important, in school, in the sports club, in the sport in operation, a very important point, to sports in the second half. Another new thing: With this project, the roof associations are merged. The activities in the sports clubs are now less focused on competitions, but more on prevention, health promotion. Thus, the action “Fit for Austria” and the corresponding budget support will provide another important element within the framework of our Minister of Health’s health strategy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18224	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18246	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Thematically, it goes on to be colorfully confused. I would like to join in the budget speech with the proud commitment of the Minister of Finance. He meant that the family is the core of our society and that the children are the future of our country. In the light of this budget, I am going to turn this statement to its truth content. He also said that 1.1 billion € will be spent on the families. The following sentence was added: “We spend €900 million more on unemployment benefits and emergency aid.” – As a small footnote, I have to note that I do not understand at all why one notes this so proudly in a budget speech. This is evidence of the fatal failure of your policy and a macabre political understanding, which is proud of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But in fact I want to deal with the priorities of your family policy. Yeah, you're spending more money. The question is: How do you use it? And: Is it used properly? This is explained by two examples. First example: the future of our children. You spend more money, but you have deleted money, the former Schilling Childcare Milliards, which has fueled the important creation of new childcare facilities. Here you can read: “The children are the future of our country.” What, though, are we investing in the future of children, that is, in the future of our country? - Too little, I would say. There are still 90 000 childcare places missing. You don't do anything except statistical flaws! International comparisons could not convince you that it is useful to invest in the appropriate infrastructure to increase birth rate. Now you have others on the table, namely the results of the PISA study, about which the whole country is discussing how important it would be to expand preschool institutions. However, there are no impulses here. So: central failure when it comes to the future of the children of our country. Second example: Childcare allowance. You spend a lot more money. – Yes, evidence is on the table. Wifo says it spends more money. However: What is the impact of this measure? – This looks like after the introduction of child benefit, unemployment in women increased by about 40 percent after the baby break. I'd say, Although a lot of money is spent, the way you've designed the child's money is misappropriated. In other words, we need to reconsider the way in which we make changes to take measures to avoid providing incentives towards long-term occupational interruptions in order to avoid continuing this development. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to refer you very briefly to the Social Report, which has actually become a poverty report. This is at the heart of the reference to the fact that the risk of poverty in families with small children is increasing and that there is a close link between the fact that women in this age of work are not working and cannot be done because of the lack of adequate childcare facilities. That's where the cat bites in the tail. The instrument child care money that you so much like as an instrument against the risk of poverty is actually a trap and a signpost towards poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18315	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18336	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My connex is speaking to my predecessor, I would now say, under the term “poverty. ” In my speech, however, it will include development cooperation and the foreign policy budget. There is a new minister in this department since we decided on the last budget. At the beginning, I asked the question whether it would be possible for the Ministry of Finance to fix some of the expected cuts for the 2006 budget and, in fact, to give political weight to this government and also to the Ministry of Finance to ensure that improvements in the external field are also foreseen. When I looked at the budget, I thought, well, in two points, in two smaller points, but still, I could say that the Foreign Minister did something. The Ministry of Finance was ready to give in. One point was that in 2006 there will be a lower reduction of planning posts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs than planned, also a lower one than from 2004 to 2005. At that time there was a minus of 29 posts, from 2005 to 2006 only a minus of three items is planned, unlike some more that were originally planned. I hope that this is not just due to the EU Presidency, which Austria will hold next year in the first half of the year, and then, possibly, in the next budget, is planned to cut further in this area. In any case, this has been achieved: Only minus three posts for 2006 is a small progress. Nevertheless, I would like to say once again, as some times before: If I compare the number of posts the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has with a comparable European country, such as Sweden, I must say that we have a very low level of staff. According to the 2006 budget, Austria now has 1,425 posts, Sweden, quite comparable, with 1,000 more, namely about 2,500 officials in the field of foreign policy, development policy. I think that the importance of foreign policy and development policy in Sweden is also measured. Unfortunately, it is less in Austria. I very much regret this, but hope that in the future there will be improvements and not just cuts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second point, where, in contrast to the 2005 budget, there is a little bit of an increase – a total of only €1.5 million, but after all: the squirrel nourishes itself effortlessly – concerns the international organizations. These are usually laborious to take note of increases where there are voluntary contributions. Perhaps the visits by well-known and important UN representatives such as Kofi Annan, but also by Mark Malloch Brown of the UNDP or Evelyn Herfkens, who, as coordinator of the UN Millennium campaign, now wants to further advance the goals in the industrialized countries, have contributed to the fact that voluntary contributions to international organisations, such as the UN Development Programme, the UN Population Programme, the UNICEF, but also to a lesser extent to the UN Women's Fund, have increased. But these are, unfortunately, only two small light views. In general, I have to say that there is a great shadow on this foreign policy budget. In this regard, Mr Finanzminister spoke under the heading 'A world: Poverty is going on to all of us!” – This is basically praiseworthy. But that would also mean that there is indeed more budget resources for what Austria has in terms of operating budget, where there are projects and programmes in countries of the south and the east. The fact is that the Austrian Development Agency, the ADA, is getting just €3.5 million more for 2006. From 2004 to 2005, it was €2.3 million more, resulting in a total of € 5.8 million more for this operational designable area in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I wonder why this development agency had to be founded so quickly at all. The reason was always, there will be a lot more money, which must then be handled so to speak. So in view of a total of € 5.8 million for two years, ladies and gentlemen, no one can tell me that this rapid restructuring, in which there were still difficulties, was actually necessary. The Minister of Finance also stressed yesterday that Austria is now able to reach 0.4% of the gross domestic product for public development cooperation in 2006. This is even a little more than the European States adopted at the so-called Barcelona Summit in 2002. I can only say: Yes, that's true, but for those who are closer to it, it's clear, that's unique. That is to say, in 2006 there will be once – and we hope it will take place – a debt debt for the country of Cameroon. But that doesn't depend on Austria. Although we have said that we are in the process, whether the Paris Club actually finds Cameroon to be excusable at the time, or not, will not depend on Austria. In 2005, there will also be a high level of debt for Iraq. We'll be fine with this. We have also supported this. But these are also factors that, if, then only indirectly benefit the country, because this is a purely budgetary measure that does not allow poverty to be combated, for example in Iraq or also in African countries or elsewhere. In fact, there is no operational or almost no budget available, because 5,8 million euros are not at all. But in order to really achieve this goal, it is far too little for that. I think it is a real exaggeration if the Minister of Finance believes that these funds will be made available in 2006, with €3.5 million for the ADA and €1.5 million for international organisations, measures to gradually approach the Barcelona target of the EU Council. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Isn't that just too grotesque?]] Overall, if I have it right in my mind now, about € 226 million will be needed. With the €3 or €4 million planned for 2006, ladies and gentlemen, if Austria continues to do so gradually, we will no longer achieve this goal at all our lifetimes. In the form of poverty reduction by Minister of Finance Grasser will not work. Finally, on the question of projects intended to deal with the tsunami disaster. The disaster fund for disasters abroad, which we think makes sense to establish in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, seems to me to be another piece of work, namely that yesterday's data protection law: There are always a few pieces, but a whole crisis plan, such as crises, disasters abroad, is not present. This is also not to be seen in this budget. This disaster fund makes sense. A question arises here for me: What should the accompanying control look like? – Perhaps you can tell me something about this, Mr State Secretary! It is about accompanying control for this foreign disaster fund, which is to be established in the foreign office, which is then to be filled through an empowerment law, depending on whether such a disaster occurs or not – that is of course useful – also. We hope it won't be needed, but when it's needed, the question arises: How will this be controlled? From whom? Will there be independent persons or bodies doing this? Or will the government control itself? It would be useful in this area to control that by independent bodies. Overall, there is some small progress in the area of the external sector as a whole. I'm also glad that it's one of those resorts where there's a little more money as a whole. Of course, the fear is that when the Austrian EU Presidency is over, these increases cannot be kept. But in the sense of an Austrian presence both within the EU and in other parts of the world, I think it makes sense to think about increasing the budget of the Foreign Office and especially development cooperation in the future, and not just building up small progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18384	Mr Zweytick is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18405	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been said about the budget. Yesterday, our Minister of Finance presented this budget – from my point of view, it was very demonstrative and also very impressive, even if it was in a shortened form. All the better is the preparation for reading, which has already been praised by all parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] “We have reason for optimism!” says the introduction on page 3. I also believe that we have reason to be optimistic when comparing the data, when you know the figures, and when you also evaluate the location – evaluates in comparison to those around Austria – nearer or further away – with countries that have similar problems, but where this issue has really become a problem that are trying to get out of there with the greatest effort. These countries, of course, have our solidarity, they also recognize our figures, this type of financial policy and this budget, and all that belongs to it. International praise is heard everywhere. I think you should look beyond the edge of the plate. It would also be in our greatest sense and interest if Germany were also better. This would be very important because we are not only participating in it, but primarily depend very strongly on Germany. [[Call the SPÖ: The speech, please!]] In view of this situation, such an achievement, as it has achieved Austria with its budget and its figures, is really a special achievement, otherwise it would not come from everywhere praise. Where does no praise come from? – You don’t want to hear it, you don’t want to see it, you don’t want to say it: This is the opposition here in the house. I don't understand. The colleague of ‘Tip 3’, Hoscher, speaks of 354 days of imprisonment. This is not a guessing game, that is not a questioner, Mr Caspar of One, and that is not a game. You have to recognize this, and you have to see it in the international comparison. – A lot has already been said, and I am glad about it. I stick to what Minister of Finance Grasser said: We have reason for optimism – and no more and no less. We are building on this optimism. We are building on good cooperation with the economy, with the economy, but also, of course, with all the representative parties represented in the country. The legislation helps you indirectly to make sure that you feel comfortable in this country – which is also very important – and whether you have a future perspective. People are comparatively oriented to other numbers, and there we can deliver numbers that we must be proud of. I don't want Karl-Heinz now. Criticize grass because he mentioned a philosopher, I just want to say: I think it is good and right that we are committed to action. That actually starts in the family, goes over the community up here, to this highest place. I'll practice it! Ladies and gentlemen, I know what it means to make a balanced budget! I know how difficult it is if you can't compensate. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - That's not my wife, dear friend! It's about creating work and winning the future. I would like to stick to the work programme of this government and I am optimistic and confident for the future. But I would also like this to be particularly true of our neighbouring countries, because an island of the Blessed in this Europe can and will not remain and will not be able to remain in the long term. We are an important part of Europe and we also depend on it. Our attitude towards the future must be: We are now responsible for what is happening in the future. I think Karl-Heinz Grasser is right. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18451	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18523	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to quote at the beginning of my speech – but one of me – that is: We're looking, you're looking away. – And so I would sum up the budget speech of the Minister of Finance and many debates today, because you are just talking about what looks good at first glance, without looking at what is still happening in Austria. I'd like to show this on the basis of a few quotes. Mr Grasser, Federal Minister, said: “Austria is currently the third-richest country in Europe and the 12th-richest country in the world.” – Unfortunately, the number of people at risk of poverty has increased by more than 114,000 since 2000. There are over 1 million people in Austria for the first time – and the third largest country in the EU – at risk of poverty. I think that's a shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 460 000 people currently live in acute poverty, which is about 170 000 people more than in 2000, i.e. an increase of almost 60 percent. That's incredible, that's a sign of poverty for your policy! Unfortunately, women are particularly affected. This risk of poverty, valued colleagues, is also dramatically reflected in the rise in private bankruptcy and indebtedness. In Austria, 400 000 households are currently in debt, and 40 percent of these households face problems when the washing machine is broken because people can hardly afford new ones. The 1870 credit protection association expects 4 500 private bankruptcys in 2005, which are twice as many as in 2002. It's alarming! This is not a disease, as the colleagues of the ÖVP and the liberals always say, but it is also reality and everyday life in Austria. We look, you look away – that distinguishes us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second quote I would like to bring is: The Austrians can afford more. “We are pleased that the income of the Austrian population has increased by €27 billion...” – The Federal Chancellor even claimed that each Austrian and every Austrian has grossly more income than they did five years ago. I ask you: Where's the more income? Who of you knows people who actually have more than €2,500 than five years ago? – I know very few! The fact is that income is stagnating! Currently 1.5 million employees in Austria do not even reach the median income of the year 2000 – and women are also particularly affected again. Women's income has fallen by 5.3 percent! That's no reason to rejoice, that's a cause for action! - If we show this, you say we're sick. We do not cry ill, but that is also reality, and that is also everyday life in Austria. We look, you look away – that distinguishes us. Unfortunately, I don't have time anymore, I still have two quotes, but maybe I can bring them another time. Finally, I would just like to say, without having shown many problems that are still in place in Austria: The policy of the government parties is wrong. They make policy according to the motto: Backwind for the rich, against wind for everyone else.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18590	As the next speaker, Mr Ing has spoken. Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18622	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! In my speech on the first reading of the budget, I should like to refer briefly to the Transport chapter and to the associated financing of the infrastructure in Austria. It is gratifying that the transport budget provides for investments of €2.3 billion, which represents an increase of €34.8 million compared to the 2004 budget. The main expenditure relates, apart from staff, to: expenditure on public passenger and local transport, in particular transport associations with around €63.6 million. The budgeting of the railway infrastructure with around € 1.02 billion is also particularly positive. The public services of the ÖBB and the private railways are also paid at € 621 million. I should also like to mention and highlight this as an important contribution to the conservation of rural infrastructure. The budgetary development for transport infrastructure projects is very positive, especially considering that around €3 billion is invested annually in the entire Austrian transport infrastructure, and about €1.4 billion of this is going into new rail construction, €1 billion in road construction and around €500 million in inland roads. – This is particularly important given the importance of these investments in strengthening the economic location. Austria is thus in the top European field for transport infrastructure projects. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would like to point out that since February 2000, this Federal Government has been doing more for the expansion of infrastructure – i.e. for the expansion of rail, road and waterways – than ever a government has done before. While by the year 2000, the infrastructure investments amounted to less than € 2 billion, they have increased continuously since 2000: In 2001, they amounted to €2.1 billion and in 2006 already € 3.1 billion. The total infrastructure investment for the years 2000 to 2010 will total € 28.1 billion. It has thus succeeded in ensuring investment in both road and rail development in an unprecedented level. We are therefore taking measures to strengthen infrastructure and thus to strengthen the economy in the rural region in particular. I am also pleased that it has succeeded – I can see this as a representative from the Spittal district – that, for the next five years, funds amounting to just under €100 million for the Bundesbahn-Tauernbahn from Kollmitz to Pusarnitz will be made available. The two-track extension to this section is an important measure for the smooth operation of the north-south connection of the Bundesbahn on the Tauernbahn. High house! With its investments, the 2006 transport budget brings many impetus for better transport connections. Transport infrastructures for our citizens and for our economy will be significantly improved. The 2006 transport budget is therefore an essential step towards a modern and economically oriented Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18673	Mr Krainer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18694	Mr President. Mr Finz, you're on your own again. Ladies and gentlemen! The Secretary of State is still here. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But it is the question of how this goes on now!]] Whether he's still saying something today. We have already noted before that Mr. Finz appears to be in the constellation of the fish at the moment and therefore does not speak to us, but he listens to us. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But we should say to him that he is there!]] - That's right. Bravo! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The government's attention is ending today. I'm just going to deal with a few little things. [[Abg. Schöls: This depends on your contributions!]] - Ah, there's someone else awake! [[Abg. Schools: You can raise!]] On the environment: Austria, when we joined the EU, was environmental model country, we were all always proud of that. There are some, like colleagues Wittauer, who believe that this is still the case today. Austria, however, lost its place by far. [[Abg. Grill: You're insulting again!]] – I am not insulting anyone at all, and I have also talked to Mr Wittauer. [[Abg. Wittauer: The dust load...!]] There are a number of environmental problems which are not addressed at all in this budget. We have major problems, apart from the complaints, because we do not implement EU directives, such as the EU Environment Directive. But we also have big problems with fine dust, especially in Graz. That is, I believe, the fine dust capital in Europe. We also have big problems with NOX. We issue around twice as much NOX as we are supposed to issue contractually guaranteed. But you should also see the positive: The word “Kyoto” can be found in the budget speech. The Minister of Finance believes that Austria will spend €30 million more on this area than it did in the previous year. This is, in principle, far too little to achieve the Kyoto target. We remember when Mr Bartenstein was still Environment Minister, he promised that we would reduce from 78 million tonnes per year to 67 million tonnes per year. I'm always comparing this a little bit to losing weight: In January, about 11 pounds were lost in one year, which would be relatively easy. Unfortunately, however, October is now on, and we have not lost 11 kilos, but increased 14 kilos. That's the situation at Kyoto. But now I'm looking for this €30 million, but find at the best will a maximum of €21 million. There is already one point for these missing €9 million, which you probably think is, and I tell you what can be found at this point: This is about a congress for alternatives to animal experiments, species protection Eulenvogel, European FlowerWeek, project “clean instead of sauber”, and this can be continued. I am not saying that these projects are bad, but what they have to do with Kyoto is absolutely open. Secondly, I would like to make a brief comment on the field of civil service. This is also mentioned in the budget speech. It met the Civil Service Reform Commission with the result of far too few far-reaching proposals. With its majority, the ÖVP has ensured that we cannot achieve equality between civil servants and civil servants, but the ÖVP is famous for the fact that, thanks to this government, the proposals of the Civil Service Reform Commission can now be implemented. I see in the budget report Interior under the field of “civil service ” and wanted to see how much money was planned. One key point is that civil servants should be made monetaryly equal to present servants, so as to get as much money as present servants. This, of course, costs money, which costs at least €14 million, just so that the basic fee is equal. That means that I would have to find a corresponding figure in the budget. I look at the 2005 federal proposal for civil service, for this year. This is 47,064. And in 2006 he was also 47,064. This is not just an increase, but in fact a 3% reduction, because inflation has not been paid. I wonder, What has the Civil Service Reform Commission done if you, with your majority, prevent us from achieving real equality? But not even these half-steps are financed. No cent is intended for this area. We will ensure that this money is made available in the budget consultations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18805	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18827	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I can turn to the financial in my statement and say that the 2006 budget, which was presented in the draft by the Federal Government, is a good budget. I don't understand the following: Mrs Königsberger says that it is not a pity, but the opposition tries nothing but to make the budget bad, to make the government bad and also to make the country bad. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's also bad!]] That's why I'm asking you: Which other country in Europe or beyond would you prefer to live in rather than in Austria? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: In Austria without ÖVP!]] In which other country would be in Europe or beyond You prefer to work in Austria? – I think you will not find any other country, because we are doing good politics in Austria, and this is expressed in figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger]] We want a strong economic location in Austria, and we want to create jobs. We need a solid budget, and this solid budget is also given. With 66 billion € expenditure and 60 billion € While there is a €5.81 billion drop in revenue, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a little bit about it, even if that is the case in the ranks of the Socialists, which is the reason. I say that the former debt policy is to blame, that we have to pay so much interest today and that we cannot be balanced today. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Go, stop!]] The Socialists have tripled the debt during their reign, during the single government period! They increased their debt by 1,200 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Go, stop!]] And if I still count on the time until the year 2000, then the government of Schüssel has taken over the row and for the first time has also placed the Minister of Finance, then the debt has been fine-tuned. Debts increased by 3 400 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Fairy-tale!]] If we didn't have to pay these €7 billion debt, we would have a surplus in the next year's budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The comparison makes us sure. I have looked at the socialist programme and in recent weeks and months I have written down the demands of the Socialists. 11 billion € the socialists want more expenditure for the future. This would mean a further deterioration of the situation, a further debt policy, just as we were used to by the socialist single government at the time. I'd like to call you: If we make fewer debts, we will work together for our country so that Austria will remain ahead in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18934	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18984	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to my previous speaker that it is always the question of what the money is spent on. With you, this seems to me to be the Eurofighters and the like. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a certain degree of honesty, at least in terms of art and culture, in the speech of the Minister for Finance. If the government was worth a whole sentence a year ago in this area, the word “art” in the 2006 budget speech no longer appears. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's honest!]] That's honest, exactly. In the draft budget, art is, at best, co-conceived with others, it does not seem to appear. This shows the appreciation of this government for art and culture. The budget figures for this area in 2006 show little change in itself. There is a slight increase, but most of it is already intended for special financing. Overall, they are still under the 1999 budget. This shows that investment in the arts and culture sector is obviously not an urgent task of this government. This can also be seen in the share of expenditure on culture in the total expenditure of the federal government: In the mid-1990s, the share was one percent, which is now far below. Not only do art and cultural forms complain about the need for money, but now also the large cultural flags. After all, the subsidies for the Bundestheater and the Federal Museums have been frozen for a decade. A closer look also deserves the museum policy of Minister Gehrer, but not because she was so successful. This, ladies and gentlemen, should be an evaluation report for us recently. But I think, in the meantime, it is probably understandable to all of Austria that the museum policy of the Minister of Culture is characterised by deficits and structural problems. Suspects hardens in this context: With the exclusion of the federal museums, the government seems to have discharged itself from the responsibilities. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: But you haven't heard the last... report yet!]] There is no strategic planning, there are no clear profiles. There is competitive pressure and quota pressure. And some museum directors make clear what they want: One gives responsibility to a transport company, and the other plays Sherlock Holmes and tries to look for his stolen art treasures. But the Minister does not feel responsible, and I think she clearly neglects her duty of supervision. There is also nothing new in the field of art at State Secretary Morak. Cultural policy is reduced to the administration of existing structures, concepts are only marginal. That is, the assessment of the forthcoming budget in the field of art and culture is clear, as in many other areas: clearly negative! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19040	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19058	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The federal state of Carinthia, my home country, is served by the federal government, I think, very well. [[Abg. May. Muttons: You can say that!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Now comes praise for the first time...!]] It has already been mentioned a few numbers today. I should like to mention here the development of the road: ASFINAG is investing around €70 million this year, in 2005, and €85 million is planned for the 2006 budget, i.e. a corresponding increase. The hospitals are served with €28 million, or, as a different example, the PÄDAK with more than €6 million. The Technology Center Lakeside Softwarepark is served with a total of € 18.5 million, and here the federal government will continue to adjust accordingly in 2006. Of course, the sports sector is also to be mentioned where the €30 million for the football stadium are parked. And a substantial part is also the approximately €250 million – in this case planned by 2010 – for the Koralmbahn, a quite high sum, plus the €55 million, which Mr Winkler has already mentioned, for the remaining routes in Carinthia. – This is a lot of money, which needs to be used accordingly, must be used with care. In this context, I should like to encourage my head of state in Carinthia that we should not allow Sicilian conditions to enter, but that there should be genuinely transparent and efficient implementations. [[Abg. Bucher: What? “Sicilian conditions”? Did you eat a pizza?]] The fact that the financial compensation for our federal state has also brought about something is also clear – not to the extent that we wanted it to be for financially weak communities, but it is still around € 8.5 million and additional € 7 million for the countries. That was not what we wanted – I have already said it – but Mr Finanzminister himself said: We are on our way, we have almost entered the exit from the graduated population key. The objective is therefore quite certain: Every Austrian must be worth a lot. Here, the country representatives have also negotiated a number of ways, and by the fact that increases in the country sector have also taken place in the country's budgets, in the school community, in the areas of social security and health, many of the achievements have been recorded here again. However, I expect to see a further improvement for the rural communities in this respect, because we have also agreed on a parliamentary working group here. It is clear that rural areas need even more support. If we create work everywhere, then rural areas, I believe, can win the future, and that is also the motto of the ÖVP. We have already set up many measures – I do not want to repeat them here at all – from the Pendlerpauschale to Agrodiesel et cetera to more money for the small schools that are to be received. Speaking of small schools here a small excursion: I believe that the rural area has always been a great reservoir of performance-ready and also powerful people. And we certainly do not want to leave this principle of performance in school. I don't think it's good if there are to be no more school notes soon, just because teachers are afraid of parents et cetera. I don't think we're on the right track. Therefore, not only should something be changed in the system – this is also important, the two-thirds majority must fall, we have also known ourselves, and teachers need to be better trained, not a question – but I also believe that we must demand the parent's education responsibility in a specific manner. And I think it is also legitimate for children to be prepared for more difficult stages of life, which hopefully they will not have to experience. Return to the rural area: Another chance for the future is forestry. There is a great potential here, there are many job opportunities. I can only take one point out here, which is the growth sector of bioenergy and biomass for district heating, for heating. In conclusion, from this package of opportunities, as one can say: Opportunities are also available for rural areas – this federal government supports it. The population is also ready and fit for the future. I think we just need more respect and more acceptance for rural life and economies! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19122	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19143	Ladies and gentlemen! Half a page in the scriptum on the budget speech on development cooperation, which is almost unbelievable, quite incredible! And it's true indeed: Yes, we have responsibility for the rest of the world! However, the topics mentioned here are topics that the government can implement without problems – no one prevents them from doing so. When it comes to fairness in market access, I think very much about what you could do: with regard to export promotions as regards agricultural subsidies in terms of investment protection agreements. However, with all your policies I miss coherence, but I miss development cooperation awareness. That's really bad. On this half A4 page on development cooperation is also a mistake – I hope that does not go through the entire budget speech –: Yes, it is true that the EU's Heads of State and Government have agreed at EU level on an EU-wide development goal. However, this is not, as here stands, 0.33 percent, but 0.39%. Only we, as Austrians, who are eerie followers of development cooperation, have a much lower average to contribute to this, and we have the target of 0.33 percent – not the whole EU. There are also countries that have already exceeded 0.7 percent for development cooperation, such as the Netherlands, Denmark, Luxembourg, Norway and Sweden. It is also gratifying that we are standing in here and that the Minister of Finance has said that we will have higher development expenditure in the next few years. This is truly welcome, especially because then Austria finally fulfils its international commitments. But even if the quantity is right, the quality still has nothing to do with it: The debt of Cameroon and Iraq is due in 2005 and 2006, and Iraq alone accounts for approximately €450 million. Only by doing so can we achieve this great leap. I'm just wondering: What is the super-toll quality in development cooperation when Toyotas, once bought on pump, or built-in torture chambers of a dictator and Haider-friends Saddam Hussein are discharged? – It doesn’t satisfy hunger, it doesn’t fill a stomach, it doesn’t create education and no jobs at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The OECD – and I agree with this criticism – argues that those parts of Austrian development cooperation, which are somehow bound, for example in the form of debt or calculated study expenses, are very high, whereas the politically freely available part is extremely small and is getting smaller and smaller. I also remember that the ADA was founded because it said: There will be a sum of money on us! Section VII in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not at all be able to deal with and implement these summaries! We must therefore quickly establish an ADA! – We founded them quickly, but for €3.5 million more in the coming year, this really didn’t pay off. For this reason, privatising development cooperation would not have been necessary, not at all. Even the third year in a row, the money has been lost. What is also very unfortunate is that in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, payments for development cooperation are reduced by €2 million, namely in multilateral development cooperation, in our contributions to the United Nations. Once again to the speech of the Minister for Finance. – Yes, I see that as well: Of course, 0.7% for development cooperation remains the goal, and I ask you – finely that you are still there, Secretary of State, perhaps you can extend this to Mr Finanzminister –: We should finally take an example from other countries that have long drawn up plans on how to reach this 0.7 percent – at 0.7 percent that really allow poverty reduction, allowing shapeable policies to allow sustainable development. If that were a budget that would make it possible, we would also agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19206	The next speaker was Mr Preineder.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19264	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Managing, designing, investing – this could be the motto of the 2006 budget. A balanced budget over the economic cycle, a reduction in the tax rate to less than 40 percent and growth and employment as a signal for the future. I would like to talk about an area where growth and employment appear to be a contradiction, but which has always been united, namely on agriculture and the environment. The budget here has an increase of 3.75%. We discussed the ten-year balance sheet of EU membership in the morning, and in this context we should also point out that we have had an environmental programme since 1995, involving 76 percent of farms and 89% of the area, a programme that pays for services in the areas of environment and tourism, a programme that is increasingly accepted and produces a greater intensity among those involved. In the direction of Mr Pirklhuber – who is not in the hall now –: Financing for 2006 is guaranteed by the Austrian budget, and negotiations still need to be held by the EU. Ecology and sustainable economies are important to us, said our Minister of Finance, and since the 16th century. February is the Kyoto Protocol in force. We have set a high goal here. ==References== The progress report will be published in March and will show that greenhouse gas emissions are rising in almost all areas, except agriculture. This is not a good sign, and it is therefore more important to counter it. In the 2005 budget, €30 million is already planned, and it will again be €30 million more next year to force action abroad, but above all domestically. Examples of this include ecological housing promotion, 843 biomass heating plants that provide more than 10,000 homes, as well as 52 658 hacking and pellet heating. The electricity production, which has been forced by the Ecopower Act since 2003, has also brought us in the field of biogas, for example, 130 plants, and 80 are in planning, which is 7 percent of electricity production. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger:... yourself, colleague, not the Minister of Finance!]] [[Abg. Krainer: What does this have to do with the budget? – That's what consumers pay!]] This is what consumers pay, but not the investment subsidies that are given here! I think it would be good, Mr Krainer, for you to agree to the Eco electricity Act if it were to be amended. [[Abg. Krainer: If you have a good proposal, always!]] But perhaps Mr Oberhaidinger can explain why no agreement has been given here since December. [[Abg. Krainer: Because it was a bad proposal! That's where you have to make a good proposal!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Also for the project klima:aktiv there are about € 3 million from the budget you have been looking for. [[Abg. Krainer: Is this the promotion...?]] This will put in place measures for education, advice and management. [[Abg. Krainer: Is this the Public Relations Department from...?]] Whether heat production, electricity production, fuel production: With the right framework, we can achieve value added, create jobs and relieve the environment. This budget provides balance between economy and ecology, and it deserves your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19367	The next speaker was Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19389	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For years, the Federal Government has watched how unemployment in our country has developed into record unemployment. This is even true of the speeches of the representatives of the government parties. That is why I felt it was particularly cynical yesterday when the Minister of Finance, in his speech, was particularly famous for the € 104 million to be spent on the AMS. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that this does not create jobs. At best, the very high numbers of unemployed – 351 000, to your memory – may be managed a little better. Jobs are created by investment, and economic professionals agree that the employment situation can only be improved by increasing growth. [[Abg. Grillish nodded.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] I think it was one of your colleagues who today called a code, namely: 1 billion € invested in the economy means more in about 18,000 jobs. – Well, it may be 15 000, 18 000 or 10,000 – in all cases this would have an employment effect. But if I look at this scam budget, I find almost nothing in it that suggests in this direction. I listened to my colleague, Mr Muttonen, and I do not find anything in the budget on the subject of energy policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you listening to each other? This is a step forward! You should have listened to us, my colleague. You'd have learned something! Don't listen to your own colleagues! That doesn't mean anything!]] In the last budget year, energy policy has at least been mentioned. Today there is not even a line on this subject, ladies and gentlemen. Heat insulation – a topic that could really achieve a lot of employment – does not occur. Investment in the energy sector – we will need about 3,000 megawatts more in electricity by 2015, even if we work efficiently – will not provide incentives for investments in power plants. And, Mr Preineder, because you asked why we did not agree: We don't know where to agree! We haven't been talking to us since Christmas, there are no negotiations. We are ready for negotiation, but the negotiations must start with us, and we ourselves will not be able to become an initiative with us. And we're not going to be initiative either; we're opposition and not in government. But the Federal Government will not come around talking to us about it. You can only look at what came out of a survey in Upper Austria: The electricity customers are already refusing to spend even more money on promoting the eco electricity! And the subsidies are largely or almost exclusively financed by the electricity customers, although the Minister of Finance, under the title Energy, takes almost €1 billion. Today, at higher energy prices, it will become even more, I say. It is therefore high time that we also talk about who should actually pay the support for the eco electricity in the next few days. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I had the impression yesterday that this budget fairy tale by Minister of Finance Grasser had not even survived the first night in “thousand night”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19461	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19482	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of today's debate, we can again see who is taking policies for the people of this country seriously and who is concerned only with polemics and the fragmentation of the budget speech of the Minister of Finance yesterday – of course, there are exceptions to you. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Hahaha!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: stencils!]] The Austrians can no longer take your fear policy and your bad-making seriously. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Incorrect text!]] It is, of course, painful for you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that this black and blue federal government has succeeded in achieving the greatest tax relief for all in the history of the Second Republic and yet reducing the deficit of 2006 to 1.7 percent. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with the liberals.]] Without tax reform, this budget would already be balanced. It's like this: The main debt, the main responsibility for the debtberg over the last 30 years, is the SPÖ! Without debts before 1986, the federal government would be debt-free as early as 2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They are only annoyed because the tax and tax rate can already be reduced to 40.6 percent in 2006, although the Federal Government has only set itself this target for 2010. We are on the right track with the sustainable discharge of all taxpayers and thus ensure the economic and employment standard. [[Discussions in the SPÖ bank series.]] You are sitting here in the House, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, there are discussions and criticisms of the Federal Government in an inaccurate way, but tax increases are at the heart of your economic course. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's a central speech! They're all holding here!]] Just one example: They want to extend the tax base for corporate tax and local tax. Mr Oberhaidinger! Thank God you're in opposition! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with the liberals.]] The Vienna SPÖ city government did well to orient itself to this federal government. The unemployment rate in Vienna is only reduced by the statistical tricks of the AMS. Of course, we are committed to training unemployed people. However, the beauty of the unemployment figures cannot even challenge the SPÖ in Vienna again. In Vienna, unemployed people are only managed and no longer mediated, and that has been the case for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: This is a scandal!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: (in the direction of SPÖ) Listen, understand, act!]] In today's study on the comparison of the regions, Vienna has been far removed from other Austrian federal states – a clear failure of Vienna's SPÖ economic and labour market policy! Poor Vienna – happy Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19659	The next item is Mrs Hlavac's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19680	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The colleague actually gives the same speech every time she explains how terrible the situation is in Vienna. – That the situation of the ÖVP in Vienna is terrible, we know, but the situation of Vienna as a city is a shiny one. Vienna is a city with enormous quality of life, and Vienna is also the city in which much is invested, in which much is done against unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to address another issue, a subject that concerns us in Vienna, but not only in Vienna, namely the question of integration. In connection with the PISA study, the migrant children have been placed as scapegoats. There are many children with migration backgrounds that can be excellent German. But apart from not being allowed to generalize, one must say that there is also a lack of reading among other children. It is not about finding someone who is guilty of something now, but about doing something. [[Abg. Scheibner: I believed the government is to blame for everything!]] What's happening now? Is it possible now that the accompanying teachers who have been saved this year will be taken up again? Not at all! It is further saved in compulsory schooling. More teachers in compulsory education are to be saved. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There are fewer children!]] – It is true that there are fewer children in compulsory education – the Minister has said this again today – but it is not so much less that such massive savings would have been justified. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because the SPÖ politicians give their children to private school!]] It's actually that right at the... [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is the matter of the Vienna school administration!]] No, no, no, It is really true that it would be necessary to promote more especially for the children who need special support, and for the classes that are more difficult. They are separated by the Federation of Teachers, and this is obviously how it continues. The Minister said that the school in Austria was too expensive, more expensive than in Finland. The fact that money alone does not say anything about quality is in itself correct – a late realization that the system is to be changed. I must say that the applause received by the Minister of Foreign Affairs was particularly encouraging. I am glad that the ÖVP finally realized that there must be a reform in the school system. But it is shortened in the existing bad system, and this is a disastrous combination on the back of those who are particularly in need of support, and that is something we very regret.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19762	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19784	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Oberhaidinger, it was not we who stood up from the negotiating table when it came to the eco-power law, but it was you. After an postponed session, when we thought it was going to take care of everything, you are... Oh, yes, I was in committee very well! [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all! They were not there at all during the negotiations!]] – You’re up from the negotiating table and you’re responsible... – Don’t talk if you don’t know! [[Abg. Krainer: You were not there at all during the negotiations! I was at the negotiations, unlike you!]] I am well informed, and I know what happened in committee. Mr Oberhaidinger will also know. You are responsible if €17 million cannot be invested, and you are responsible if jobs cannot be created. [[Abg. Krainer: It can be invested more!]] But after all, we've heard you're ready to negotiate! After all, this is something, and perhaps we can talk on this basis. As regards colleague Lunacek and colleague Petra Bayr For a long time, you have not been able to criticize enough that we do not reach 0.33 percent of GDP in development cooperation. [[Abg. Bayr: Not yet!]] Now we reach them, but we reach them. You can't say we can't achieve this goal. This government holds this promise. We also insist in the medium term that we want to reach 0.7 percent. But You both know just as I do and many others that money alone does not solve the problems in this area. It is about the fact that structures change; otherwise, unfortunately, God will not change much in these countries with even more money. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Mrs. Gehrer is the problem!]] However, I would like to talk about another area in our country, namely the labour market. There has already been a great deal of discussion about job creation and labour market problems. I believe that there has rightly been a focus on the budget in order to make some progress in this area. However, the following must also be said: These problems are indeed present in rural areas. I therefore believe that we need to start working in rural areas. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Prinzhorn is asleep!]] - I'll talk to you. I'm not talking to him, I'm talking to you! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But it's interesting!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need to solve the problems we have in front of us, and there it does not help if, for example, you try by preserving... – That's no problem, I'm talking to you. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You need to screw out the lamp, then the light is gone!]] What problem do you have? There's going to be a reaction sometime. Let me... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Get the lamp out of here!]] What is it then? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Then there is no light, then you can talk!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I can also speak with light. I don't think that's a problem. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Was just an idea!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Let me, ladies and gentlemen, bring this thought to an end. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] They are in favour of preserving as much of the rural structures as possible. We believe that with the preservation of structures nothing has been won, that only costs money, that it is just necessary to change structures. In this context, I believe that this government has proved its willingness to reform. In this we will continue in the next few years, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19987	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20008	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Let's continue after this little but nice incident. . Mr State Secretary, I can now ask you to say a few inconspicuous words, because on the issue of gift tax there is a connection with credibility and truthfulness – for To use your word – in the Causa “Grasser-Verein” you have declared last year that a gift tax cannot exist. This has often aroused attention, some have smiled, others have been sad, but the fact is that after only a minor examination, the prosecutor has found that there is a gift tax very likely. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: That's not true!]] My colleague Cap and I have discussed a long time ago and here we ask you to explain here today, what is happening to this association, how you are actually talking about the statements of the prosecutor's office. Now, in connection with judicial policy, I would like to talk about a few... [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Just accept that we live in a rule of law!]] Yes, this is the problem: that you seem to have a problem with it! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: One cannot wish for a certain knowledge in a rule of law!]] That's the theme! I would like to discuss some of the small malices of Mr Bundeskanzler in connection with the budget chapter. We have all seen in recent times, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister of Justice is quite willing to make sense here – a renewal for four years, which I have granted – and that we also want to put into practice appropriate and challenging demands. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: You should also do this: let reason reign!]] The attempt to present the face of a less sympathetic government, a not so sympathetic German chancellor by that of the Minister of Justice, apparently did not like it, and this had the consequence that even those means that had already been promised – Mr Grillitsch, you know better than everyone else – were removed. [[Abg. Böhm: You have to tell the cast farmer! That's what you need to tell your supervisor!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to safety, to save judges, to the execution of this penalty, to save execution officials, namely those who have promised to do so – Mr Ikrath, I know that's terrible – that can only be evil. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath]] I believe that this is what Mrs Justice Ministers – ladies and gentlemen of the Freemans, perhaps helping She's just a little bit – not deserved. I believe that the concepts are 80 per cent acceptable, but I believe that they only allow the Federal Chancellor to implement 20 to 30 per cent, maximum, and that has not deserved this country. Ladies and gentlemen! I expect you to go in here and make the Federal Chancellor clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20110	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20142	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr Cap, I will give my speech, and you will be holding yours, I think, so let us leave it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Okay! That's a good opinion!]] The 2006 budget is a mix of three priorities: On the one hand, it is about reducing expenditure through reforms, on the other hand, it is about setting incentives for the future through efficiency and sustainability, and on the other hand, it is about making targeted investments in the right place. The budgetary consolidation rate will continue, and new opportunities will be opened up with economic packages. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Now I'm relieved!]] Much in this state, Mr Cap, will depend on the extent to which we can work together to secure jobs and create new jobs. It will depend on how prosperity and retention develop in our state. We can do without further comparison. I think we're staying here in Austria, we don't need to hide from anyone in the EU. It is about continuing the reforms, such as the administrative reform, where, in my opinion, State Secretary Finz has already done a great deal. Such reforms are not popular, but they are necessary. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with the liberals.]] The merger of police, gendarmerie and customs, the reform of financial management and a central procurement system bring savings. The military reform and civil service reform bring social security and, of course, security in the country and at the borders. It is about giving answers for the future to reduce the tax rate. It is about creating perspectives in the fields of education, schools, infrastructure and research. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Shorts, Shorts, Shorts!]] It is also about investing in climate protection. A huge opportunity for agriculture is the implementation of the Biofuel Directive, where we should be able to increase the contribution of biofuels. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right!]] Finally, I can address the most important concern for myself – I think the greatest restraint in the state is the family. It is important that we encourage families whether single-earners, single-earners, single-parents – with the childcare allowance and with childcare facilities. We invest in the family. The family is the most important reserve. The ÖVP as a family party stands for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20256	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20277	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The thoughts of the representatives of the government parties are, Mr Mitterlehner, hardly to be understood. I am particularly referring to the thoughts of Mr Tamandel and Mr Glaser. Of course, consideration must be given to extending social security contributions. They were the one who even invited the public to think about it. But afterwards, Mr Mitterlehner, you should have been taken to the kandare, because nothing has been heard of you after that. I say it quite frankly to you: We confess to that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I also call you the reason, colleague Brinek. The 2006 birth forecast provides for a minimum of €408 million for the social security funds sector, such as €561 million for 2007. I am very grateful to Mrs Haubner for having received a parliamentary reply today, namely to the question of what it really looks like when it comes to financing social security schemes, as is the case with the outside positions of entrepreneurs, Mr Mitterlehner. I don't have all the numbers now – I only have them on Tuesday 30. ==References== Wiener Entrepreneurs owes € 350 million to the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. In Lower Austria it is € 109 million. In Upper Austria it is 134 million €. And so on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think we should also consider how many executions against entrepreneurs are pending. In Styria alone – just one example – executions amounting to €95 million are pending. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: SPÖ-Communalbetriebe!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We discuss this openly, but we also discuss openly this “swivel budget” which is not sustainable in many areas – in the field of justice, in the security sector, as well as in the consumer protection sector. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr President, he says that we are ‘swindlers’!]] We shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20346	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20368	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, we're already a very intimate round, it's really fun, and that's why I want to mention it again: The bowls and grasses made it! According to the “manager magazine” of February, we are not only the “better Germany”, but also the top in Europe. The starting point of this study was twelve typical location factors for sophisticated industrial settlements. One of these is the spread of crime and corruption, and I would like to say something about it very briefly, because Austria is the safest country in the world, and Austria secures its location advantage through internal security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The internal security, which will continue to be guaranteed in the future, has been clearly put into figures in the 2006 budget. [[Abg. Krainer: Please, something new!]] More € 111 million will be available for the interior resort in 2006 to combat crime. I would like to make a few examples clear to you: The € 111 million will be used to renew the fleet, renew the information technology. The construction program of the services will continue, and more and more money will be invested in the development of DNA analyses. Finally, a new radio system is coming, Mr. Cap. The Security Monitor is being expanded and monthly criminal statistics are being developed into an analysis tool. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] These structural changes, this budget will ensure that no service is locked up, that there is no job loss, and they will ensure, above all, a thousand more officials for the foreign service. Thus, thanks to our policy, our beautiful Austria simply has better compared to Germany, in our position in Europe, in central data such as quality of life, safety, employment, economic location. – That through our action, through this budget, through our courage to change, thanks to black and blue!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20416	Mr Maier spoke on an actual amendment. You know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies, I am sure of that. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20441	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My predecessor claimed that there are a thousand more officials in the executive sector. [[Abg. Ellwall: In the field service!]] - That's not right! According to the establishment plan, there will be about 750 officials less in Austria when the guards are assembled. [[Abg. May. Worm: Unfortunately!]] – This is to be read in the establishment plan.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20502	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20523	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr State Secretary, since 2005, we have received the budget paper “budget draft... at a glance”. This is positive, and today it has also been said that this presentation ensures transparency. I would like to say that it provides some transparency. I do not understand the following, Mr State Secretary, but perhaps you can explain this to me: The 2005 Supplement describes expenditure and revenue, as it should be, on that for 2006 – I have been looking for the whole day – although the expenditure of the federal government is not the revenue. I can already imagine – this is my guess, Mr State Secretary – that you, because elections are coming, needed the place to list the tax reform and its impact there. I think, however, that the transparency of the public budget is not given at a glance, because the substantial part of the revenue is missing on this leaflet. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: But they're on it!]] No, Mr. State Secretary! Yes, they are in percentage development, but not in breakdown. On the paper for 2005 are exactly the revenue on it. Another suspicion is obvious to me: because wage tax and sales tax are the most revenue of the state and corporate tax is the lowest income. That is, taxpayers pay the most for the state budget. I'm missing something, Mr. State Secretary. Internationality has always been announced. The budget speech speaks of EU comparisons – but internationality is not reflected in this budget sheet! I would suggest that the EU payments made by Austria and the return flows are also made. [[Call the ÖVP:Read! Read!]] – No, they are not on this one leaflet, Mr. Cot! They are mentioned in the budget report and there are also very strong deficits for rural areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20571	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20597	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Take responsibility for the design of the future – this has been successfully implemented by the government's sustainable budget policy since 2000. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] For future generations, a solid basis must be created again to open up opportunities for the future to the young generation. With the 2006 budget, presented yesterday by Federal Minister Grasser here in the House, we achieve an important goal in our long-term budget and tax policy. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I didn't succeed!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Already heard!]] This budget contains three main priorities: first stability, a zero deficit over the economic cycle by 2008, second discharge of citizens and businesses by the largest tax reform of the Second Republic and third reduction in the tax rate to 40 percent already in 2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Unfortunately the clubman can't clap, he has no hand free!]] Investment in the future: 35 percent more than in 1999 for research and development and 60 percent more for investment in infrastructure. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We also deliberately take up a temporary increase in the deficit in order to support the economic upturn permanently and to further strengthen Austria's economic location. We would also like to use the €20 billion in primary surpluses achieved in the years 2000 to 2006 to restore full employment, to strengthen the economic location and to further reduce the tax rate, but unfortunately, repayments and interest rates, i.e. the charges of the previous SPÖ periods, must be borne. Ladies and gentlemen! Under the motto “Social is what creates work!” I would also like to present you with a few facts about unemployment. According to conventional statistics, Austria averages 7.1 per cent in the year 2004, while my Federal State of Upper Austria is 4.4 per cent. – Mrs Hlavac, for comparison: Vienna has an unemployment rate of 9.8 percent, more than twice as much as Upper Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] For the environment, €35 million more is foreseen in the 2006 estimate. ==References== The Kyoto Protocol entered into force on 1 February 2005. To achieve these ambitious goals, we also spend €30 million more on climate protection. Here, too, Upper Austria is again taking a forward-looking path, which has been confirmed by the signing of the Upper Austrian Climate Pact in order to strengthen or support the efforts of the federal government to meet the Kyoto objective. Austria, according to a study on the industrial nations, is the safest country in the world. To ensure that this remains the same, the 2005 Internal Region budget has been increased by more than €162 million and remains at this high level in 2006. This means that our country has the necessary means to meet the challenges of the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website [[Abg. May. Molterer: Talk time!]] Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the successful policy of our Federal Government with German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, Federal Minister Grasser, State Secretary Finz and also our clubman, the internationally recognized, successful Austrian path will continue and lead our country to a secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20692	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20713	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, do you know what really fascinates me about you? You tell things here, you always repeat, and you also give the impression that you believe what you're telling here. – That’s a great performance! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! During yesterday's fable, the Minister of Finance referred very briefly to the municipalities and meant: We have successfully negotiated the new FAG with countries, cities and communities. - Yes, that's right! The Minister of Finance has negotiated successfully. It has scrapped the municipalities because it needs the municipalities with 0.5 percent of GDP, so that its deficit does not rise to 2.2 percent. He needs the communities to do that, that's right. What bothers me is that the Minister of Finance has also said: “Every citizen has to be equally valuable to us.” – I am still taking this away from the local authorities of the ÖVP, I am not taking this away from the Minister of Finance, because when I look at the tax reform, I realize it is not worth every citizen equally much. And when I look at this budget, I also realize that by far not every citizen is equally worth it. What does he say then when more and more citizens get into poverty? What does he say about it when we have more unemployed every day? Are they not worth so much to him? – So this is a statement that he should save himself the next time. A single sentence from this budget speech makes me very hopeful. The Minister of Finance said: “... There is no savings package with me”. He has just not finished this sentence: because he is no longer a Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20752	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20774	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Last year in the autumn, when we negotiated the 2005 budget – I remember well – the Minister of Finance of the Republic for Internal Security had two remaining sentences. He talked, among other things, about the merger of gendarmerie and police and in this context of team “O4”. I remember that very well. So he did not deal very closely with it, because in the national sense the team is called “Null4”. What is the value of his inner security this year? A sentence this time, and in that it says: Administrative reform, reduction of public servants by almost 15,000, police and gendarmerie together and customs guard. – That was already the subject of public security in Austria. I already believe that he may not lose much more words about it, for the balance is a truly sad one. Nearly 650,000 crimes in 2004, 38.5 per cent in Enlightenment – this is a sad record in the Second Republic! After that, and this must not be forgotten, there are about 700 000 victims. What is being done for these victims? The ÖVP has always referred to itself as the party that stands for the victims, which supports the protection of victims accordingly, but: The funds for the victim protection institutions remained the same from 2005 to 2006. That means: Much more crimes, much more crimes – and the victims stay in the rain somewhere! And that is sad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That was a two-liner!]] Mr Kapeller has said that there are beautiful uniforms that there is more money, especially for equipment – yes, for representing, but money for allowing police officers to be used more on the street in the future is less available. Look at this! On the spot, where the uniforms serve, there is less money. There are fewer Indians, as the former Minister of the Interior once said, on the street. It's going to be less, less and less, and that's not a good signal. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you one thing: The brutal savings policy will continue – at the expense of the security of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20822	Mr Gradwelt has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20859	Mr President. Mr State Secretary, don't worry about this time, I will not ask you overly! The “tightly occupied” series show that this is no longer particularly desirable today. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You must not take this into consideration!]] However, I cannot spare some comments. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard the budget speech, we have the budget documents in place and we note that there is more money in the agricultural sector. What is the effect of this increase in money? – After you have not changed the distribution of this money, have maintained old distribution mechanisms, the protests are increasing and the initiatives that oppose this distribution are increasing. Mr Grillitsch, don't look so surprised! We have all received emails from farmers' initiatives, which call on us to support them in more fair distributions, whether in the milk sector, in the IG milk sector, or also in the case of soil pensions, which are fixed in the form of the present farm premium, to return to those who actually want to manage the soil, and not those who have someday leased them. Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, the 2006 budget has also brought no change, apart from the fact that more money is spent on an area and this increase in money leads to greater dissatisfaction. But the main responsibility for this is yours, ladies and gentlemen, on the right! Let me make one more point. It was very often the talk today that the Social Democrats have left behind debts you have to deal with. - Dear ladies and gentlemen! Their children have gone to schools that have been built with these debts, their children have received their training there and today have good opportunities in professional life. Their families are driving on roads that were built with these debts at the time. Values were created! Mr Grillitsch, we come from a district where at the end of the seventies the last farmer was supplied with electrical energy. And that caused debt! But what are you doing today? Instead of saying: This development of the Republic was excellent, we stand by it!, go here and throw these values at zero rate to your friends. That's contemptible and reprehensible!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20896	The next speaker was Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20917	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank all those who are still present and endure. [[Abg. Neudeck: What does “endurance ” mean? I don't think that's fair.]] Mr Ellmauer, you claim that you have to bear the burden of the previous periods. – These were investments in the future, as my previous speaker has already mentioned! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who told you this! Was that the Kalina?]] Much was promised in yesterday's budget speech – I felt like a political fairy tale –: social justice, full employment, more research and development, more education, strengthening communities and so on. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties or from the government, you will not be able to keep any of your promises, because your budget is not the way to these goals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More money in the wallet, that's your goal, you said. Whose wallet was meant was left open. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs Colleague, the tax reduction has already been implemented!]] The Austrians had to suffer massive losses since you made the budget of this country. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] Winners of your budget and tax policy are large corporations and the Ministry of Finance – not the people in Austria and not the socially needy! The winners are not small and medium-sized enterprises, not small communities and not rural ones. You continue your course of hunger in the rural regions consistently in 2006. In 2004, regional funding was € 149 million. Today it is 130 million €. For 2006 you have only more than € 109 million left for regional funding. Growth and employment in structurally weak regions, especially rural areas, are obviously no longer an issue for you. As mayor of a small and rural community, I know what that means, Mr. Großruck! As you like to compare the 2006 budget with the 1999 level: In 1999, infrastructure expenditure was still €1,592 million, with only €612 million in 2006 and a reduction of more than half compared to 1999. The future is our programme, the Minister for Finance has meant. This is another example of his empty flakes, behind which he wants to hide his failures. If the future of Austria is really at your heart, the budget would look different.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21015	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21052	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, let's try it with optimism. As a technician, I think it's up to me to deal mainly with numbers. However, I would like to say in connection with Mr Kapeller's speech and various calls for call, that I do not know who has PISA weaknesses: Is it Colleague Kapeller – or am I? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Therefore: Let's try it together! I take your official documents from the Internal Chapter: for general budget expenditure of €1,892 billion in 2005 and €1,884 billion in 2006. – Now I ask: Is that €110 million more? Even if you only have a little control over basic accounting, you can see that the €7.9 million is less. Since I have heard that 1 000 officials are more than that, I am beginning to count once again, and I am looking at the information relating to planning posts to do so; by the way, it is on the same side. [[Call the ÖVP: In the field service!]] 32 082 planning sites are located in 2005, 31 130 planning sites in 2006. This clearly results in a minus of 952 planning points – and certainly no plus of 1 000! And that goes on, for example in the chapter on Justice, where one can see a minus of 370 planning posts. In the Federal Army there is a minus of 696 plots; in total, makes a minus of a total of 2 018 plots! Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: With your policy you do not succeed – as you falsely claim again and again – in creating jobs! On the contrary: In your government responsibility within a year, in the field of security alone, 2 018 jobs have been destroyed! This is your “new policy”! I regret that there has been such a budget. But in my opinion, this is the last budget of your government at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21122	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21160	I'm glad you're so excited. Mr Finz is obviously being paid today for silence and for the long face. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In yesterday's budget speech, the Minister of Finance has pushed threats towards disabled and sick people by saying whether it could really be that 35 percent of all new entrants in the pension claim invalidity pension. – This is a clear threat to the sick and disabled People should not be taken into consideration anymore and the state abandons the people! The Austrian Association for Rehabilitation, in which many people with disabilities are represented, is storming against Grasser's grip in the Mottenkasse. – Quote: Almost as usual, one could say that the people who are unemployed, sick and disabled have to stand by when it comes to savings that are obviously not to be made or can not be done elsewhere. - Quote. This is confirmed by the Austrian Association for Rehabilitation in an issue. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not by the health system, but by the working world that people get sick and are disabled. It is therefore important to introduce measures to prevent and protect health at work. In yesterday's discussion on the Court of Auditors' report, we heard from FPÖ Members of the Booker that the term "economics" is interpreted by you in the direction that money has to be thrown out of the window in order to get it back into the door. – That is, the money for workers, the benefits are restricted for sick and disabled people. So there you take the money away from you to get it in the case of advertising costs, consulting services at the “door. ” Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, such a budgetary policy can only be rejected!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21214	The next speaker was Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21235	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have no doubt in this budget speech that I have been looking for the major solutions to the issue of health policy. Mr Mitterlehner, I was simply too optimistic, because apart from a flat two-liner, there was no statement on this important subject. [[Call the ÖVP: So!]] I can now quote these two lines: “Austria has one of the best health systems in the world.” – A truly “sensational” statement, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! The Minister of Finance should have just written: still! because you are in the best way that this will soon not be the case! I would also like to quote this two-liner from the written budget speech: “Can it really be that 35 percent of all new additions to the pension claim disability pension?” If the Minister of Finance has tried to suggest to us that repair medicine no longer fulfils the deficits of your policy, then I can only say he was right. – But the Minister of Finance could have written this in just as correctly, because Mr. Finanzminister or Mr. State Secretary would have to be aware of the fact that more and more poverty also increases the risk of disease, which is the case in all societies of the world. Therefore, Mr Finz, take the following steps: Increasing poverty endangers health! And: The policy you are pursuing is crucial to the fact that there are major deficits in this area in particular! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: What are those alternatives? Proposals!]] Mr Finz, I think that: A policy, like They operate them who take unemployment, refuse educational opportunities, see the eyes increase poverty, not only endanger health, but also social consensus in our countries! And this, ladies and gentlemen, is really sad! I therefore hope that this outflow model of an ÖVP/FPÖ government will be finally and very soon over: in the interests of the people and in the interest of this country. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21285	The next speaker was Mrs Walther. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21307	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Finanzminister's budget speech was a real jubilation – a joyful speech, especially about himself. [[Abg. Do you all have the same speech?]] However, it is more important to analyse what is in it or what is not. The topic of poverty was at least as good as not. Findings from the Social Report – to read 14 days ago in all newspapers: 1 million people in Austria are at risk of poverty, 400,000 are poor. And since 2000, there has been an increase of 60 percent! Women were only found twice in the speech of the Minister of Finance, once when it was said that women had to be integrated into the acquisition process, and that child rearing and employment should not be a contradiction. – That was everything in the budget speech about what knowledge was drawn from the work of women. – I can only say: The workers are the losers of the last four years, but they had to take a loss of income of 11 percent! On child care allowance – this was also the topic in recent weeks –: [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Was very important, yes!]] The self-employed are getting easier; unfortunately, the unself-employed are not. Therefore: This injustice must be eradicated! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21357	The next speaker was Mr Leutner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21379	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If the employee's representatives will look back on this 2006 budget, they will, I fear, say: This budget 2006 was also one by which unemployment remained in our country and where one was far from tax justice! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: What is the unemployment problem...?]] This is, as you can see, not a matter of the heart of this federal government even in 2006. There are 360 000 unemployed in Austria! In view of the fact that you, Mr Van der ÖVP, have tabled proposals on this subject: Proposals to combat unemployment are on the table a noticeable public investment boost – listen! – in the creation of infrastructure, in the provision of labour market policies and in the provision of additional relief for small and medium-sized employees. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Who?]] But please don't tell us at the budget debates over the next few weeks that you don't have any money for this, because for reliefs in group taxation, there are such things very well! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the subject of tax justice. We all know that the list of burdens on workers and pensioners has been in recent years, and this tax reform does not change at all. What remains net to humans eats away the energy tax. This is why the trade unions are also calling for an increase in the negative tax. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] I hope that all the things that will invigorate employment in this country and prevent unemployment will be the subject of the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21470	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21492	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to make a preliminary remark on Mr Scheuch's statements yesterday, yesterday and before. Mr Scheuch, I now say for all futures: Any discrimination, any blasphemy, any vocational damage from your mouth strengthens my backbone, is a clear confirmation of my political attitude and a clear evidence of the correctness of my demarcation from you and many in your party! It is only true, Mr Scheuch. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Goodbye!]] Now from Scheuch to Grasser. I would like to reduce my remarks on specific quotations and statements made by the Minister of Finance in his speech. Grass in the O-tone: Austria is a wonderful country to live and work. – Yes, Austria is a wonderful, unique country – yes, I applaud it! – but through the politics of this federal government, the life and survival struggle of people, women and men in Austria becomes a real existential issue. [[Demonstratetive applause and bravorage at the ÖVP]] [[Call the ÖVP:... it will be even better!]] And this is a minus and a worrying record of this federal government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Who says that?]] Second sentence: Grasser said employment was increasing. – The fact is that currently 361 106 women and men are without work and income, and that is a disaster for each individual, a disaster for Austria that you have to answer from this federal government – and nobody else! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A sentence by the Minister of Finance, whom he did not pronounce. I quote Grasser from his written speech: ‘Tax evasion is not a cavalier offence. It is theft at the general public.” – This sentence is in the written budget speech. [[Abg. Neudeck: What, and that is what you read?! That was yesterday!]] The question arises why Grasser has kept this sentence silent in his oral remarks. I might have assumed that a little bit of guilt would have occurred, but your behavior, your concern is proof that Grasser knows why he has also failed and has not spoken. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The greatest insolence – but that is the only truth of this federal government – is: Grasser and you call this budgetary and financial policy “Austro-Capitalism”! Austro-Capitalism, this is the ideology you have to answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21607	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Key to word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21647	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The colleague Melitta Trunk, whom I very much appreciate, has said that I am constantly showing myself with anti-female and devaluating remarks and that this is strengthening your backbone and a confirmation of being on the right track. [[Abg. May. Trunk: I never said that...!]] I'll put it right: I don't think... [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does “believe ” mean?- Oh, my God!]] I say right: that I have not made any anti-female or other statements about this here in the House!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21711	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21732	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to keep my statements very short, but I've actually suspected that the 2006 budget will be presented in spring because it should be a general attack, so to speak, to rip around the row for black and blue in our country again. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. May. Ikrath]] So this attempt has obviously failed; this is seen in the results you are presenting. Therefore, I believe that the real reason for this start to this budget debate is that in a few weeks' time there will be a disunity of this government coalition, that the Blues will be thrown out of the government and that we will have new elections in the early autumn, because with as little in-depth commitment as this budget has not yet been realized. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is self-criticism!]] – No, that’s not self-criticism; you didn’t listen, colleague Scheibner! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Unfortunately, this budget does not solve any current political problem of this Republic. [[Abg. We have already solved the biggest problems, Mr Scheibner.]] Whoever presents such a budget has no ambitions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21795	Mr Herzegovina is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21822	As far as television advertising, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have already been presented today. Keywords: Gloggnitz instead of Italy. But let's take a look at some more ads. For example, you write: Erika (67) and Franz (69), married couple, plus 456 €. - So how you feel. Plus 456 € is of course white nonsense, but you already tried last year to sell the older generation for stupid, and have put something completely wrong. Certainly the former Federal Minister also remembers his ads: ‘From tomorrow: Single pension rights for all,” it was said. – If you know that you send 50-year-old officials in early retirement and get up to the retirement age for everyone else: How can you then – in addition to tax-paying costs! – ‘From tomorrow: Inserting uniform pension rights for all’?- Oh, my God! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Or what can be clearly seen in this advertisement? - A face! [[The speaker shall keep an advertisement up to date]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Thanks for the presentation!]] This has nothing to do with an information content, as the Court of Auditors demands. That's pure visaism! This has nothing more to do with what is required in this context! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or if, for example, Ms. Ursula Haubnersagen, bringing up children every day brings new surprises and new tensions! – These “news” on taxpayers’ costs too! [[Abg. Scheibner: Herself!]] For God's sake! You've seen it in the paper anyway, colleague Scheibner. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That's really terrible! The comforting thing about it is: Even if you strongly apply a bad product, your policy, the result is terrible. And that will also be the case at the National Council elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21899	The next speaker was Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21921	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot today, and sometimes you had the impression that they have installed a chip at some ÖVP colleagues. [[Discouragement of the liberties]] This hustle and bustle, this positive representation, has almost been embarrassing! I'll tell you: This is a bit a denial of reality, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! I tell you, this budget will not last, just as the other budgets have not kept. I'm just reminding you: In the Federal estimate 2004, a deficit of 0.7 percent was set. It has come out – we have already heard this today – almost double! In the budget for this year, a deficit of 1.9 percent has been proposed. – Experts are already predicting that this deficit will be at least 2 percent. But we're not Their only critics, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups – the European finance ministers have already adopted a little of this policy, as you can hear – because even leading economic experts do not like such a policy. One thing is already obvious: In media where Minister of Finance Grasser has always been so cheered up, it looks a little different this time too. But there is no wonder in such measures that are being tried to try to combat unemployment in this Federal Government. These €11 million are really just a drop on the hot stone! Interesting is the fact that economic support for small and medium-sized enterprises is abolished. I am delighted how Mr Mitterlehner will explain to his members! I can only say: This 2006 budget becomes disaster – and you from ÖVP and FPÖ have the responsibility to bear it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21975	I call Mr Böhmdorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21996	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not gonna stop you for long. You feel that almost everyone is already on the way home or at least remember to be on the way home soon. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] I would just like to thank you, Mr State Secretary, for being presented to us by the speech of Mr Finanzminister, how good we are, that we are better every day and every week and that we are really on the right track. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, after I was a member of the Federal Government myself, I believe that this effort is honest and that it is also successful. But remember, Mr State Secretary: What would be the best prosperity we can achieve with your help in the skystrip if we did not have a functioning or less functioning justice? – Let us remember that once! I believe that justice is sometimes underestimated in its importance as a wealthier. That is why the appeal to you, Mr State Secretary, but to think a little more about the fact that a functioning justice really ensures prosperity in this country. There is a project you have on the table, which is as follows: If you support justice with €10 to €15 million – and I do not promise: €10 to €15 million – in human resources investment, the judicial system will save at least €1 billion by speeding up the procedures of the economy. So expensive are procedural delays. I didn't promise myself either now. Please, Mr State Secretary, think more about this efficiency improvement, you have more confidence in justice! It will certainly support and secure the wealth that you can provide with your policy. This belief in justice is missing a little, and in my opinion, justice is a little bit less in the speech of the Minister for Finance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22046	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22067	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The Minister of Finance said yesterday in his budget speech that Austria is a wonderful country for life and work. – I add: however, only for those who have work. There are over 361,000 unemployed in February 2005, 22 percent more than in February 2000. That is, if you trust in the market, you are quickly disappointed. The government trusts in the market and hopes it will be better. But it won't be better. There are no measures to be taken. In the fight against unemployment, this government has not seen any priority so far, and the priorities are elsewhere. Mr State Secretary, I did a little bit yesterday on the website of the Minister for Finance, and you will find a reference to a flat-rate tax payment option when you hand over an anonymous 40 percent to the Fiscus. Under the logo of the Ministry of Finance you can find it. I think there's something wrong. I would ask you... – Yes, there has been something hanging, says the Secretary of State. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: There's something left up there!]] Maybe you can correct that. Or the money went out on the homepage – that could be – so that no more service is possible. But at least you might want to look at that. Ladies and gentlemen! The development of public debt will be set out in the stability programme of the Federal Government, and it can be seen that public debt will rise by €16.2 billion from 2003 to 2007. We are told: It's all right!, but in reality, we find that there is a strong rise in government debt in just four years by 16.2 billion. – This can be found on page 14 in the stability programme in Table 4. Ladies and gentlemen! In his budget speech, the Minister of Finance said that the aim is not new debt. – The result of politics is the opposite, I have provided proof here. In fact, the Minister of Finance is increasingly a small Sandmann – admittedly professional – who tries to spread some sand to the Austrians. For a long time, I think the Austrians will no longer be able to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22107	Mr Wittmann is now speaking to us for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22128	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! What has become of this government, what has become of the financial budgets from 2000 to 2006? The first benefit of this government is that there is the highest number of unemployed that has ever existed in that Republic. There is the greatest youth unemployment there has ever been in this Republic. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now stop!]] There is one of the highest inflation rates in Europe, there is the highest debt level measured in absolute numbers, and you have done nothing to promote investment, you have done nothing to eliminate unemployment. – In reality, a complete failure of financial policy without any future perspective. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The assessment of Grasser’s speech cannot be made better if it was taken today in the “standard”: ‘What Grasser suggested in Parliament was a mixture of total superficiality, disinterest and unbearable self- praise.’ In fact, nothing would add to this if this government did not have the threat of using the ORF law for its propaganda purposes, out of advertising times, which under the ORF Act would only be intended for important communications, it would be necessary to launch an advertising campaign, which is indisputable in terms of threat. [[Abg. Scheibner: Be careful!]] Firstly, 2 million taxpayers get zero out of this tax reform because they did not pay any tax before. The rest of the large majority receives between €2 and €11 from this tax reform, which will be taken away immediately to the person on the other hand by fees, taxes and other things. It is suggested to the taxpayer that he can buy these 2 to 11 € a new costumer! – Do you know what's really going on? - You take off his leather pants! Otherwise you won't reach anything with all this propaganda! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This shows a disinterest in the population, a demonstration of the population and, ultimately, a mockery of those who have a low income. They have not deserved that something be speeded up to them, which they will never achieve. This propaganda will still fall on your head. It is even worse than the Minister of Finance's speech, which is truly self-glorious and unbearable.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22197	==References== The speaker in this debate is Mr Neudeck. If we have two more speakers, we can reach the 100. 3 minutes. [[Abg. Silhavy: Now the President has an ambition! Incredible!]] – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22228	Mr President. – I almost missed the goal of being the hundredth. – Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter and other speakers of the large opposition party have today tried to rise here as the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Matznetter, the SPÖ policy of the last 30 years has led to the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises might have to be re-assembled by you today if we had not already done so. Their Vice-President Strobl will be asked at an event of the S & D Economic Association: Mr President. – in the S & D Economic Association he is President and not Vice-President as in the Chamber. This is a little bit of your label failure, you have in the organization the same titles as in the chamber, only one step higher. The Vice-President of the Chamber is therefore president of the organization. – Do you know how many jobs you destroy with the award guidelines of the municipality of Vienna in Vienna – award guidelines, where 90 percent remains to be regulated about the price, and that at U Bahn tax, high wages in Vienna compared to the surrounding area and at other high fees and costs? Ladies and gentlemen! But just one more issue: Stadium. There is a stadium scandal that you think should take place in and for yourself in the south. You always read the “standard. ” Now I have taken your reading, looking at the “standard, ” and today it says: “Vienna instead of sport” – not Vienna Sportstadt, but Vienna instead of Sport –: “The Happle Stadium has no lawn heating, which has been known for two weeks at the latest, as Austria’s European cupartie has been shifted against Bilbao for the same reason” – like the last one now. The city of Vienna has for years and despite some advances in this direction not come to the idea of upgrading its largest stadium. It's just a lucky thing that the EM 2008 will take place in summer. There they will not need the lawn heating; perhaps they will build it up until then. One thing is also interesting: Mr Matznetter, you always say that Minister of Finance Grasser is a genius in marketing and advertising. He really managed to give a sentence that he had in his paper but did not say to give a special meaning. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The word that is not spoken applies!]] They have taken over the spread of this sentence. The SPÖ has fallen again, ladies and gentlemen! It is true that this government is against tax evasion and against social abuse.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22265	No one's been reported in the word anymore. This is the first reading of the Federal Finance Act 2006. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall assign the 830 draft budget to the Committee on Budgets. The agenda for this meeting is exhausted. There will be another assignment meeting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-03-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22301	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 545/A to 567/A. Questions 2718/J to 2746/J were also raised. The next meeting, which serves commercial communications and allocations, I call at 9 p.m., which is immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
