ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4441	The 96. The meeting of the National Council is open. I very much welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who traditionally attends the budget speech. [[General condolences.]] [[Federal President Dr. Fischer rises from his place in the loge.]] The Official Protocol of the 95. Meeting of 4. On February 20, 2005, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Keussnigg, Steibl, Dobnigg, Keck, Mag. Posch, Heinisch-Hosek, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Rossmann and Mag. Weinzinger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4484	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] The Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallatwill be represented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2327/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4523	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 2327/AB to Question 2358/J by Mrs Oellinger, colleagues on the death of Edwin Ndupu, the Federal Minister for Justice. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4544	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to inform the House that Mr Cap has requested that the Sports Committee report to the honourable Member's Amendment No 523/A (E). Mayer, colleagues and colleagues on the report to the National Council on the operations relating to the planned stadium construction in Klagenfurt until 30. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the reply to the question. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] – Let me ask you once again to keep the noise level slightly lower! I would also like to say that Mrs Magistrate. Mr Lunacek asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 86/A by Mr Öllinger, colleagues and colleagues on a federal law amending the Code on Victim Care. ==References== On the other hand, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on Mr Cap's request for a deadline. Derogation from the 24-hour time-limit
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4589	In order to be able to negotiate items 3 and 4 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. Points 3 and 4 are reports by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendments 511/A by Mr Kopf, Mr Wittauer, colleagues in relation to a Federal Act amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 and the Federal Law on the Environment Senate, 827 of the Supplements, and 512/A (E) by Mrs Dr Glawischnig, Head, Wittauer, Krainer, colleagues concerning the position of Austria in relation to the protection of whales and dolphins at the conventions of the Contracting States of the International Convention on Wallcatching (ICRW) and in other bodies, 826 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal of the 24-hour delay in respect of these two items to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The two-thirds majority is therefore on the agenda. [[10:00:00]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4616	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4892	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the Government's proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act 2006 together with investments, 830 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. Approval shall be given unanimously. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4923	It is proposed that the debate on points 6 and 7 and 8 to 12 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. We are going into the agenda which is now under way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4947	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block time of 9 “Wine hours” agreed to give rise to the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 and Green 117 minutes. The ORF will be transferred to the meeting from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The budget speech is scheduled to be around 11.10 a.m. For the period from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., the following Rules of Procedure were adopted: for the debate on item 2 first of all one speech per group of 5 minutes, then two members of the government with a total of 15 minutes, and finally one speech per group each with 5 minutes; for the debate on item 3, first one word per group with 5 minutes, then two members of the government with a total of 15 minutes, and finally one word per group of 5 minutes each. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office of the Council shall, at all events, be evenly distributed to the political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak. Furthermore, there is agreement that actual corrections and word messages for business treatment will only be called after television transmission. The House will decide on this entire Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this overall proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is, in turn, unanimously accepted by the House. [[10:07:43]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2006 and investments
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4992	We now reach 1st. Agenda item. I give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance to give the statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5017	Dear Austrians! Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President of the National Council! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am pleased to present to you today the 2006 Federal Estimate, a budget that has been negotiated together with the 2005 budget and is in line with the discharge of the population. The Maastricht deficit in the general public sector fell to 1.7% of the gross domestic product in 2006. Financial debt decreases to 62.8% of gross domestic product. At the same time, we have been reducing the tax and tax rate to the lowest level for years. These are developments which are quite positive in the EU comparison and position us in the top of the Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! For five years now, we have been pursuing a clear financial and economic strategy. The three pillars of this strategy are: firstly, a balanced budget over the economic cycle, second, a sustainable substantial reduction in taxes and taxes and thirdly, more growth through investment in education, research and infrastructure. This strategy is necessary, it is correct and the result is also true. Austria is currently the third-richest country in Europe and the 12th-richest country in the world. We want to maintain this and, if possible, expand it. A recently presented study by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, Austria confirms an outstanding quality of life compared to the 25 countries in the European Union, one for the quality of social benefits, one for health care and one for the compatibility of work and family. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is that new?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: We have always been!]] 2nd place for the assessment of the safety of your own workplace, income and housing. The Austrians have clearly articulated themselves in this study: Austria is a wonderful country to live and work. Improvements are, of course, always desired. To work for this is our task! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Subjective feeling, mood, the answer to the question “How am I?” are very important, because of course economy is also a matter of mood, so also a question of psychology. The prerequisite for a good mood, but for optimism, is also objective facts. They too prove, our work brings good harvest. In this sense, I note that Austria will grow faster in the years 2005 and 2006 than our largest trading partners Germany and Italy. Our economic growth will be above the average of the eurozone and the “old” EU-15. I note that Austria has lowered taxes and taxes and implemented reliefs that Austria has achieved favourable unit labour costs in the European Union in recent years, which has already had a positive impact on new jobs and investment. In Austria, there are around 100 000 employees more than before the accession of the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Unemployment in Austria is not even half as high as in the euro area. We are pleased that the incomes of the Austrian population have increased by €27 billion and that savings have increased by €14 billion. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Only with the rich!]] In Austria there are more 120 000 apartments, there are 200 000 vehicles more than in 1999. In the years from 1999 to 2006, our export industry achieved very good success with a nominal export increase of about 60 percent. Since 2002, there has been a positive trade balance. [[Abg. Ollinger: Dream male numbers are these!]] Last year, more than 30 000 new companies were set up, and we now have around 70 000 companies more than in 1999. Ladies and gentlemen, this balance sheet can be seen, many in Europe envy us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Federal Government will spend €66.1 billion in forecast revenue in the coming financial year. The general government deficit will be 1.7 percent in 2006. We take this deficit very consciously, because we support the economic upturn with the discharges of the tax reform. However, I agree with all those who say that we must reduce the deficit again in the next few years, because high deficits mean less growth, less investment and more unemployment. The opposite, i.e. higher growth and new jobs are our goal. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] That is why the turn of financial policy has been taking place since 2000. Therefore, it was also so important that we renewed our goal of “no more new debt”, a balanced budget over the cycle. Throughout the party borders, the Federal Government, countries under the leadership of Vienna, cities and municipalities have adopted a new internal stability pact and jointly determined that in 2008 we want to achieve a balanced budget, a zero deficit. The goal is thus quite clear, we are going back to zero deficit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The typical reaction of one we have seen, the typical reaction of two professional pessimists is to say: This can't be done, or it can only be done if you make a savings package. [[Abg. Brosz: If Grasser were to pay taxes, it would go!]] I don't want to leave these claims in the room, but I want to address them directly and I'm very clear: With us, there's no savings package with me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Getting Now You may well ask: How's that supposed to go? How do we manage to get down from 1.7 percent?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5172	Ladies and gentlemen! I would really ask you, in the interests of everyone, to let the speaker speak now.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5188	Ladies and gentlemen! You will probably rightly ask – as we are obviously pleased together that there is no savings package –: How can we reduce this 1.7 percent deficit? How can we save the €4.3 billion? How do we do this without a savings package? First: We can do it by increasing growth. We will reduce the growth brakes for our economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] Secondly, We can do it by increasing a number of expenditures less quickly than the nominal gross domestic product. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Meditation!]] Thirdly, We can do it through expenditure reductions. Here we focus on the next stage of the administrative reform. We will make every effort to significantly reduce the costs of public administration. The negotiating teams on the side of the federal government and the countries are already nominated. Negotiations will begin in March. Here we are talking about the taxpayer. Fourth: We are making it through a reform of budgetary rights with global budgets and a so-called debt brake. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Now you have to laugh yourself!]] A number of other countries have experienced very well with statutory expenditure limits. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You have to laugh! Delicious!]] We will learn from these successes. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Be honest and laugh!]] I am still not saying that the zero deficit in 2008 is an ambitious, ambitious undertaking. But I'm optimistic, we can do it, we'll do it! I would therefore like to make it clear once again: We don't raise taxes! We do not raise taxes and there is no savings package! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: We've got the sniper up!]] High house! Let us look at the current revenue and expenditure of the federal government without taking into account the interest payments for the debt! Until 1970, there was virtually no debt in Austria. Then the governments spent much more money from 1970 to 1986 than they had taken. Big debts have been made. Since then, we have also had to pay a lot of interest on these debts. In the period 1987-2006, on the other hand, there were so-called primary surpluses of €13.3 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Tell me how many debts...!]] In other words, the current revenue was €13.3 billion higher than the expenditure. That means, ladies and gentlemen, without debt until 1986, the federal government would also be debt free in 2006. That means that we would be free of debt today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you look at the development that we as the Federal Government are directly responsible for, i.e. the development since February 2000 to 2006, you will realize that we have reduced government expenditure by 5 percent of gross domestic product and achieved primary surpluses – revenue was higher than expenditure – of more than €20 billion. A huge amount, €20 billion, which we would have liked to use to strengthen the economic location, to reduce taxes, to reduce additional labour costs or to increase investment in the future. We have these €20 billion, which we have jointly generated but cannot use for the future, but we have had to pay €46 billion in interest for the debt we were left behind in these years. The Austrians already know who they can thank for. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No motorways, no...!]] You know who has economic competence. So I'm just saying: Learn the difference in the future! It pays off for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: An unsavory speech!]] Let us see how Austria was financially set up in 1999 and how we have been able to improve since 1999! [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction SPÖ) Now watch out!]] In 1999, with a deficit of 2.2 percent, Austria had the red lantern in the European Union. With an average deficit of 1.3 percent, the euro countries were much better than Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Then the sun went up!]] – Mr Cap says: “Then the sun went up!” Thank you for recognizing that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I rarely bring quotations from you, but sometimes I have to do it. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Maybe a sunburn!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Solar Darkness!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2006, our deficit will be 1.7 percent. First of all, we are better than 1999 and second, much better than the average of the euro countries, which is 2.5 percent deficit. With this, we also reap internationally positive headlines. I quote: ‘Austrian savings course – model for Europe’. – This is how the “Hamburger Abendblatt” praised the ambitious budget policy in February of the Austrian year. [[Abg. Oils: What did the pressure cost?]] In 1999, Austria had a financial debt of 66.5 percent. At that time, debt was above the average of the European Union. In 2006, we have a financial debt of 62.8%, almost four percentage points lower, and are now better than the average of the European Union. Let's look at a long period of time. The average deficit from 1976 to 1999 was 3.1%. We have managed to achieve a balanced budget for the first time in 2001 for almost 27 years and to reduce the deficit in the seven budget years since 2000 on average to 1.1 percent. Previously 3.1 percent, now 1.1 percent! [[Abg. Parnigoni: And what did the people have to bleed for it? You have to say that too!]] There was a clear trend in the 1980s and 1990s. At that time we had high deficits and increasing burdens, i.e. increasing taxes and taxes. We have reversed this development. We have achieved lower deficits and a significant reduction in taxes and taxes by more than 3% of GDP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] A significant reduction in taxes and taxes in the event of a lower deficit! This makes the comparison very clear. I am right to say: We worked far ahead of the last place. Our course is right. Success gives us the right thing. We are also going very consistently along this path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That doesn't say anything, they praise everything!]] The 2006 budget is also in line with the tax reform. We relieve workers, single-parents, pensioners, commuters, farmers, thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and industry. The discharge in 2006 amounts to approximately €3.6 billion. This is about €1.5 billion more in discharge in 2006 than in the current year 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Now I'm relieved!]] Although this discharge is rising, the deficit is falling from 2005 to 2006. Without tax reform and without economic recovery programmes, we would even be able to achieve a small surplus in 2006. But discharge is necessary. We give the right signals: Performance is worth it. Investing pays off. This discharge is a very important support for the upturn. It increases growth. It gives the enterprises the incentive to take up additional employees. This brings every Austrian household more purchasing power. This gives Austrian taxpayers 11 days more freedom. Eleven days less work for the state – eleven days more for yourself and the family. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter keeps a graphic up-to-date.]] Less taxes, ladies and gentlemen, more for life! And this path has only begun! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Sburny: This is embarrassing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where does the tax rate develop in our country? You know, our goal was to reduce the tax rate to 40 percent of the gross domestic product by 2010. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Many have feared that we will never achieve this goal, that we will not. It was feared that we could not reach the zero deficit. Then it was feared that we would not reach the 40 percent tax rate. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not discuss whether we achieve our goals or not, we are putting the goal forward! [[Ah-Rufe with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: This is a cabaret!]] We already manage to reduce the tax rate to 40.7 percent in 2006. From almost 45 percent in 2001 to 40.7 percent in 2006. This is 3 percent less than in 1999. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] 3 per cent less than in 1999, while most countries in the European Union have not lowered, but increased, taxes. I believe that we can be satisfied because Austria has succeeded in implementing the greatest discharges in the European Union since 2002. This will enable us to implement the following policy and strategy: Less taxes, more money in the wallet, a way for higher income, a way for more employment! [[Abg. Oillinger: Who are you talking about?]] The 2006 budget continues the reforms set out in the government programme to strengthen the economic location, to increase employment, to relieve citizens and to force the innovation power of the Austrian economy. We are expanding our focus very specifically: We donate research and development with €30 million more than in 2005 and continue the special research offensive with €220 million. Ecology and sustainable economies are important to us. We spend €30 million more on climate protection agreed in Kyoto. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] [[Abg. Oil: UVP! Pulse 160!]] We increase expenditure on education and culture by €62 million. Social cohesion, the fight against poverty is a major concern for us. We increase social transfers by € 872 million. [[Abg. Bures: You increase the number of poor people!]] The 3-billion-€ package for farmers can be achieved by further increasing support by €62 million. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, more unemployment, of course, also needs more resources. Therefore, there is additional € 104 million for the labour market. [[Abg. Oils: Dreamsman!]] As you know, we have successfully negotiated the new financial compensation with the countries, cities and communities. We reached consensus on the financing of hospitals, a new internal stability pact and the distribution of tax revenue with a total volume of almost €300 billion – including the financing of hospitals – for the next four years. Of course, we will also implement this new financial compensation in the 2006 budget accordingly. Countries and municipalities receive €100 million in addition. [[Abg. Mandak: And pay 150 million € more!]] For Land teacher spends 12 million € on the federal government, which benefits our students. [[Abg. Brosz: 30 million less!]] I consider it to be a great success that after decades of discussion we have finally made the start to the abolition of the graduated population key. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Wrong!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is important because it was our concern to strengthen small communities and rural regions. This can be achieved at € 60.2 million. An important step towards our common goal: Every citizen must be equal to ours. – I would like to make this confession. That's what we're working on! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! The basis of the Austrian success is our diligent and changeable population. The Austrians recognize their will to change as well as their willingness to examine everything, to keep the good and to improve the bad. No one can get out of globalisation, even a country with a more than 50 percent export rate for goods and services. But we can and must do everything we can to make our country a winner of globalisation. A successful past is certainly not enough for that. In a fast-moving world characterized by huge changes, permanent efforts are necessary. Efforts that we have not been afraid of, but have been made with great energy and optimism to improve the quality of life and the prosperity of our people. With the reforms so far, we have set much in motion, we have achieved much. Think of the harmonised pension right for all and in addition to the employee care and the provision of the future! That's what I call fair, solid, sustainable and just. For the first time, we have really succeeded in putting private care on a broad basis. The new instrument of future security is well accepted by thousands of our fellow citizens. More than 600 000 contracts concluded in just two years and a return of more than 20 percent prove the great success. [[Abg. Oils: Please! Well, well!]] I believe that the provision of the future is a great product, and can only ask you at home to get the state premium of 180 €, even if it costs the state money. You can believe I'm happy about it. Let's make sure you take care, let's look forward to having it when we need it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Think of the ÖBB reform with a new corporate structure, a new service right, with clear savings targets and a quality improvement for the population. Consider the reform of universities: Autonomy, new performance-oriented financing and private labour law. The military reform and the civil service reform with the abbreviations for our young people are another example. Furthermore, the changes in the financial area and the capital market in Austria such as the creation of financial market supervision, the establishment of a government representative of his own. Since 1999, market capitalisation has increased by 97 percent, thus almost doubling market capitalisation. The ATX has currently increased from 1,066 points to more than 2,700 points. Vienna is thus the best-performing stock exchange of the developed Western industrial nations. Think of the privatisation, depoliticization of the ÖIAG. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: "depoliticisation"!]] More than €6 billion of wealth was generated for the taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen! Our goal is for the first time to achieve a state-indebted holding without debt, and we will do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Remember the administrative reform: Reduce the number of public servants by almost 15 000, police, army and customs guards, financial administration reform and central procurement and accounting agency. This will result in savings in public administration up to 2006 of more than €7.5 billion. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have not only saved, but at the same time we have set priorities. We have set clear priorities where the future of our country is concerned, for example in research and development: Establishment of a research foundation with a capital of €3.3 billion, House of Research, Research Premium and Research Release. In the years 2000 to 2006, we spend more than €10 billion on research, which is a plus of 34 percent compared to the period 1993 to 1999. An increase in the research rate from 1.9 percent in 1999 to 2.5 percent in 2006, which is a real focus on research. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second example: Investment in infrastructure. Some of us demand an investment offensive. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that our investment offensive has been running for a long time. [[Abg. Oils: Get out of here!]] We increased expenditure on road and rail by 60 percent over the period 2000 to 2006 compared to the period 1993 to 1999. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Next example: Focus on education. In 2006, we invested €1.1 billion more in our schools, the technical universities, in universities than in 1999. Further example: Family. The Focus family moves through all the measures of this federal government. Think of the value-added doubling of the billing of child rearing in pension reform, the increase in family allowances, the increase of the single-earner and single-parent deductions and, of course, the introduction of child care allowances. [[Abg. Mandak: The threat of poverty has doubled!]] Compared to 1999, we spend €1.1 billion more on our families in 2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I consent quite boldly, we certainly do not make everything perfect, much remains to be done, some things need to be optimised, but I am convinced that we have brought Austria to a success course with courageous and fairly implemented reforms. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Oillinger: We don't believe that!]] We do not promise miracles, but we keep word, and we work hard and consistently to improve the living conditions of our people. That is the objective of this Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The economic and reformeric successes of Austria are also internationally recognised and we are sure that our policy is correct. For example, the International Monetary Fund sees Austria as a model example of reform work. “Austria – a success model” in January 2005 headlined the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”, one of the best newspapers in the world. In this paper is also written: “The new history of Austria is a success story, economic and social, political and also cultural. The success can be shown... in figures. Today, the country is one of the richest countries in the world,... Austria is also a democratic rule of law with solid institutions based on a stable civil society. And this society shows itself open and modern again and again; it is ready for new." On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, we can build up, we can prepare even more for the morning. I think the current account is right, we have implemented some things and even more efforts in front of us, that is no question at all. The future is our programme! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! Our vision of Austria is prosperity and justice for all. We work for an Austria that combines great economic success with great social justice. It is an Austria in which all have every possibility of development, an Austria that is successful in international competition, because our talents are best promoted. [[Abg. Sburny: What about rising poverty?]] We will not rest until economic opportunities are open to everyone and the thousands of men and women who want to work also have the right and the opportunity to work. [[Abg. Oils: Where do you live?]] It is about a dynamic Austria, which sees competition as an opportunity and creates full employment for its people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of all the countries in Europe, we have managed to reduce the taxes and taxes most. The first step is often the most difficult, but also the most important, because it concerns the credibility of the implementation of political programmes. Therefore, the decision of the first two stages of the tax reform was of particular importance because we started the turn from the high-tax country to one of the most tax attractive countries in Europe. 3 billion € in discharge and the reduction in the tax rate towards 40 percent are very important successes, but I also say that is not enough for us. Whoever thought we were satisfied with it, we will be disappointed if we hope that this government will continue to reduce taxes and taxes, we will prove our will to reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High taxes and taxes mean less growth, site disadvantages and higher unemployment. [[Abg. Sburny: You can see this in Scandinavia as far as growth is concerned!]] The taxes and taxes in Austria are still too high. People are still being overly burdened. Good work, industriousness, willingness to perform and entrepreneurial initiative are too little rewarded. Work is still taxed too high, the additional wage costs are too high. Ladies and gentlemen! I agree that we must and will continue to reduce taxes and taxes. The discharge must continue, and we are now concerned with building up the scope so that we can actually do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny]] Think back to 2000, even then we said that taxes must be reduced. First, we fixed state finances, made the zero deficit, and thus developed the margin for our €3 billion tax reductions, which we implement in the years 2004 to 2006. And even now the goals are clearly stated: In 2008, we have to reach a balanced budget so that we are able to carry out the next discharge. I have no question that the next discharge must come, and I would like to tell you today what we will do then. We will continue to reduce additional labour costs, and workers and employers will have something to do with them, and both will have to be remunerated equally. Sufficient equity is the basic prerequisite for exponential corporate growth and more jobs. There, the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises are at the heart of our discharge strategy. We will continue to strengthen small and medium-sized incomes and increase their purchasing power by taking back the burdens. We will join the Freelance Group. Progression in Austria is too strong. There too we will act. Performance must pay off! I want people to be more left. Less state redistribution, more freedom for individuals, more money in the wallet – that's our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fair and attractive conditions are one – fraud and unfair competition the other. We're talking about fair competition. All those who act fraudulently on the market, who use employees as illegal employees, who calculate at no additional cost and turnover tax, have us as a uncompromising opponent. [[Calls for Greens]] We are thus on the side of those who adhere honestly to the rules of the game. It is our duty and responsibility to increase prevention and ensure fair competition. [[Abg. Mandak: You forgot a sentence, Minister of State!]] The fair and the virtuous need our protection and our full support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So, on the one hand, it is a question of collecting money where it is being abandoned and, on the other hand, of giving back the money to those to whom it is due. I also consider it an essential task of financial management to improve information and quality of service to taxpayers. If our employees do not recover more than €200 million from the Fiscus, this gives me to think whether the employee charges are professionally organized and sufficient information is available. I therefore announce a change in the course of financial management. We only achieve fairness and justice if both sides work, i.e. the collection of taxes and their verification, but also the repayment of taxes to those who have paid too much. We can never make taxation popular, but we can make it attractive, fair, simple and just, and that is what we will do, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The employment rate in Austria has never been higher than it is at present. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] We have a record employment of 3,200 500 employees. The budget for active and active labour market policy is also at its highest level. At €1.5 billion we spend twice as much as in 1999. Overall, we invest €4.9 billion in our labour market in 2006. Since 2005, there has been a mandatory care plan for every unemployed person. There are new modern rules for the availability of workers negotiated with the social partners and a new early warning system for workers. While in Austria the length of stay in unemployment declined from 140 days in 1999 to 108 days in 2004, the average in Germany is 245 days. We have introduced the apprenticeship premium of €1 000 per year and apprentices, thus reducing the additional wage costs for apprentices by €120 million. It was our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel personally who launched an apprenticeship offensive in the public service. The Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities have created 1 800 additional apprenticeships. This is an initiative that proves that the employment of young people is a major concern for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have 4.5 percent unemployment in Austria. We are therefore behind Ireland and Luxembourg the third best country in the European Union of the 25 Member States. Unemployment in Austria is only half as high as in the European average. - These are the good news. But I also say, of course, there are also bad ones. We have a far too high unemployment rate in 2004 with 243,880 people who have been identified as unemployed. [[Abg. Neighbors: 364,000!]] Behind this number are personal fates, fears and concerns of thousands of people and their families. 6 273 company collapses and more than 5 600 private bankruptcys are added. That means people in distress on the one hand. Work, on the other hand, means existence, meaning and life. Work means income. Work is the most effective means of combating poverty and social exclusion. That is why we need to help, ladies and gentlemen, there is a national effort required. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We must give a common signal to all those who want to work across party borders. The fight against unemployment with all the means available and to be reinvented is our most important and, as I hope, our common objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] However, a sustainable reduction in unemployment and full employment will only succeed if we manage to increase our potential growth to 3 percent. We are all the most important factor for the performance of an economy: the people of a country, our abilities, our will to do our risk, our will to do business. The focus of our considerations must therefore be on building up human capital, encouraging lifelong learning, a new awareness of the value of education and training. Without knowledge, there is no advantage of prosperity. I therefore also believe that it was so important that the joint launch for the ‘New School’ was successful, because it is a very essential progress that all parties in our country say away with the two-thirds majority for school laws. This is the basic prerequisite for the necessary change, which can only mean: We need the highest quality training for our children! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The “School New” must be based on the modern working world. This includes the five-day week for 6- to 14-year-olds, as well as a day care offer according to the choice of parents. The “School New” must demand strength and promote weakness. Language competence and reading culture are the basis for individual learning, the concept of performance in our training system must be positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's 30 million less!]] We must encourage and reward entrepreneurship, risk satisfaction and flexibility through clear incentives, we must promote research and the pursuit of excellence. We have a problem with the employment rate of older workers, and this must change. With the increase in the retirement age in the context of the pension reform, we have achieved a first step. We need a working labour market for older people. We need to use the knowledge, experience, the skills of these older people. The key to this is certainly continuing training. We need an initiative, ladies and gentlemen, for certification, modularisation and for internationalization of our non-business training facilities. We need to better integrate women into working life, which combines economic and social objectives. [[Abg. Well, if you know anyway, why don't you do it, Minister?]] Childcare and work shall not be contrary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you want to reduce unemployment, you must also be prepared to distance yourself from old taboos. Those countries with the lowest unemployment rates have the most flexible labour markets. Let's learn from them! More flexible labour markets also create more employment and increase the resilience of labour markets against economic collapses and external shocks. Flexible work processes ensure higher productivity, secure our social network and bring more individual freedom. We all, workers and employers, can benefit from more liberal and flexible labour markets. Both parts have to have something of it. The responsibility for these important key issues lies with the social partners, and I therefore call on the social partners to move forward the discussions. Austria is expecting progress and proposals for solutions on this important issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We should ask ourselves whether Austria is sufficiently liberalised. We must be ready to discuss the subject of shop opening times, and call on countries to also benefit from the opportunities the federal government has afforded them – on a voluntary basis, not on a comprehensive basis, not everywhere, but where consumers demand, as in shopping centres, in shopping streets, in tourist areas. I want us to do business in Austria, not Bratislava, Györ or Liège. Austria is the final light with regard to the regulation of professions with Italy. The liberalisation of the internal market in services therefore offers special opportunities to release previously unused potential. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to reduce unemployment, and this requires a courageous programme. I therefore urge all entrepreneurs, the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, the Austrian industry, the social partners, the experts, the parties, to work together on this important objective. Let us prove to people that we come together to the best solutions on the really important topics of our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria's social benefits are among the best in Europe. The social transfers in the Federal Budget amounted to €25.9 billion in 2006, which is almost €6 billion more than we spent in 1999 on social cohesion. Despite pension reforms, we spend €3.3 billion more from the Federal Budget for our pensions today. The family is the core of our society. The children are the future of our country: Childcare and the increase in family support amount to € 1.1 billion in additional expenditure. We spend € 900 million more on unemployment benefits and emergency aid. This numbering is probably more than clear confirmation of the high social demands of this federal government. [[Abg. Oellinger: (keeping a note in height) The new unemployment rates!]] We are against social inequality and more distribution justice. We are very concerned about solidarity, cohesion and social justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And precisely against this background, we also recognize that globalisation and a greater level of competition increase inequality. [[Abg. Mandak: Bravo!]] What realistic answers can we offer? – Most have realized that we cannot continue the welfare state of the seventies and eighties. His modernisation is indispensable. We will need to fundamentally review our social systems. The greatest challenge I see is that we must dramatically improve the reliability of our social services and support and solidarity only for those who really need them, but not for those who like to take advantage of them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer]] To achieve social justice for the really needy, we will continue to pursue this objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me ask you a few unpopular questions and encourage you to think about them: Is it our intention to exempt wealthy home and property owners from the recipe and broadcasting fee because they do not have regular income? [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Who prevents you from doing so?]] Do we think it is socially fair when employees of the ÖBB are retired at the age of 49, 50 or 51, while we have set a rule pension age of 65 for all others? [[lively calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The Gorbach is doing this!]] Austria has one of the best health systems in the world. [[Abg. May. Trunk:... people and fates!]] Can it really be that about a third of all new additions to the pension claim invalidity pension? Ladies and gentlemen! We need to fight poverty effectively. We should give more support to the socially weak than we do today. I am convinced that reforms will be carried by the population if they are socially balanced and fair. We have the obligation to use tax money as efficiently as possible. Social rights should not play a role in this. I am very much in favour of doing everything to combat the misuse of social benefits. I think it is a very correct signal if the labour market service has blocked the payment of unemployment benefit last year 82,000 times for abuse. Those who cannot work should be able to use any support, any solidarity. But those who do not want to work have no right to our support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] The fight against poverty and the support of socially weak people is, above all, a national obligation. However, such a rich country as Austria must also be involved internationally. We must not close our eyes to reality: Every day, without regard to the public, 33,000 children die in our world. The gross domestic product of the 47 countries of Central Africa together is lower than that of our country. It is therefore the responsibility of the international community to alleviate this tragic misery with measures such as opening up the markets of the industrialized countries for the products of the Third World, fair trade, debt, building up sustainable social and economic institutions, social systems, building infrastructure, combating infant and maternal mortality, creating access to clean drinking water. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Austria is final light!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Final light on development aid!]] With measures in all these areas, Austria can contribute to combating poverty and achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We therefore want to strengthen our position on development cooperation. The development aid target was set by the European Heads of State and Government at 0.33 percent of the so-called ODA quota for 2006. We will reach about 0.5 percent this year and about 0.4 percent in 2006 and thus significantly exceed our target in both years. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, it remains clear that we still have a lot to do here in order to realize the international future value of 0.7 percent of the gross domestic product. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Eben!]] High house! Our economy in the upturn: “The Germans envy us”, entitled the “Kronen Zeitung”. The German “Manager Magazine” writes: ‘Austria Flight Point. For decades, the small neighboring country was considered to be sympathetic, but a little backward. Meanwhile, Austro-Capitalism has established itself as a success model. Is Austria the better Germany?’, asks the German “Manager Magazin”. The site analysis concludes that Austria is a top location for high-tech settlements in Europe. The new Member States Estonia, Poland and the Czech Republic as well as Ireland are currently top locations for EU settlements. But Austria is at the front of the high-tech locations: Four Austrian regions are among the best ten of all 1 207 EU regions. In direct comparison with Germany, all Austrian regions have their noses. The most attractive German regions come from number 443. – An impressive confirmation of our work, a beautiful success. You just have to know how to do it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Nevertheless, I can assure you: We certainly do not turn back content now, but, quite the contrary, we are fully aware that we must continue to strengthen the innovative power of Austria. As measured by registered patents, access to patent databases, the employment of technicians and scientists, Austria has a need to catch up. The research rate is still too low. The European objective of financing research costs in relation to two thirds of the private economy has not yet been achieved. We must therefore continue to strengthen our efforts. Austria is to become the country of research and the country of researchers. [[Abg. Sburny: What about the researchers?]] With the elite university according to the model of MIT, we want to focus on structurally and thematically. We call international researchers: Come to Austria!, an invitation that will make us more attractive through tax incentives. We need to get research to the fore. We consider special programmes for our many small and medium-sized enterprises. We need to use their creativity, their talents so that we can really make the leap to the land of ideas, innovations, new processes and new products. Since research and development are very important priorities of this federal government, we also want to give security: As far as the budget is concerned, give security. Even today, I can confirm that in our financial planning we naturally assume another research offensive. Money security, clear medium-term research planning – this is our answer for more research, for more growth and for new and better jobs in our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria has the power and potential to become a model for many economic and social nations. We need to know: We'll get the chance we'll give ourselves. I think we are all called upon to answer a question and to act on it: What do we look like in Austria, which we want to pass on with even more pride, with even more satisfaction to our children and grandchildren? Much has to be done for this: We must ensure stability and prosperity, but at the same time force progress. I was able to outline some of the most important priorities. When, if not now, do we have to deal with these tasks? Who, if not all of us, has the responsibility for it? Where, if not here in Parliament, do these adjustments have to be made? We have many of our Objectives achieved earlier than planned. That's good, but certainly no reason to put your hands in the lap, on the contrary: [[Call the SPÖ:... unemployed!]] Our motivation lies in a further increase in the number of people employed, especially women, older people and young people. Our motivation is to reduce unemployment, is to increase the research and development rate, to increase economic growth. Our motivation is the further reduction of the tax and tax rate and the continuous reduction of the Austrian debt ratio. These are our most important tasks, ladies and gentlemen. If we manage to create a culture of thinking – world-wide, no barriers to achievements, no limits to talents, no ceiling for success and the common understanding that not only a few but everyone has the opportunity to fulfill their dreams – then we reach Austria, which is a very, very big concern for all of us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would therefore like to ask you to adopt an ambitious budget proposal, which provides for both short-term change and the necessary change for the medium and long-term good of Austria. He is an expression of the determination that Austrians can rightly expect from us. Modern and forward-looking thinking, acting decisively, living better! The future lies in our hands – we shape it responsibly and together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6221	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. The debate on the budget speech will take place tomorrow. She will be broadcast live on TV from 10 am. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It will be exciting!]] [[11:02:20]] 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (789, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty on a Constitution for Europe (820 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6254	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Spindelegger was the first to speak. His speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6281	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! We are starting with this empowerment law the ratification process of the European Constitution. I believe that this path that Austria is going to take, namely to implement ratification in two steps, is a good one, it is in accordance with our legal order. In this way we also give an answer to other countries: that we agree in accordance with the High House of this European Constitution. I think that is good and right, because this European Constitution, ladies and gentlemen – and that is the essential message – gives Europe a new face. She gives a new face, outside and inside, and she sends signals. We, the Austrian People's Party, see ourselves as a European Party, fully committed to a common Europe, and therefore we support this process and this European Constitution! [[At the grumbling of the gallery, viewers each fix a transparency with a letter which, in its succession, gives the word “people’s vote” and repeat: Volksammung]] [[Pre-sided Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] [[Officials of the Parliamentary Directorate remove the transparency from the gallery.]] I should like to comment on this argument: We have chosen this route in Austria, because we do not want to rule out a referendum on a fundamental issue, but a referendum must be limited to those cases in which it is a matter of principle, which is about principles that go far into the future – both of which I would support in this case – but also in those cases where these are very controversial issues. Only: I don't see that in this case! All the parties represented in the National Council are committed to this European Constitution, and I therefore believe that we do not have to ask the people. I am convinced that a very large majority of Austrians would also agree with this Constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can also justify why. If I say there's a new face inside and outside, it's easy to prove: The European Constitution sets out citizens' rights, citizens' rights, which say which rights – set out in a constitution – a single European citizen has and can also assert within the framework of this Union. I believe that this is a signal that the European Union will also give answers when citizens ask: What do I have of it? because they are equipped with rights, as we consider it to be natural in a rule of law as in Austria. But it is also a very important signal on the outside, because in Europe, with this institutionalisation of civil rights, we are also giving a signal to other continents, to other societies. I would say that it is a trademark of this common Europe that it sets out civil rights in such a way as to be constitutional. – and that is good and right! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, Why is this a new face? . In this Constitution, we have also laid down more rights for the European Parliament. It is a signal that a codecision procedure by the European Parliament will take place in the future with all the legal authorities, that the European Parliament is a genuine Chamber of Citizens, where everyone who chooses to participate in European elections also knows that his MEPs in the European Parliament have the right to fully implement legislation. This is also an important external signal, because we are saying this in the European Union: We stand for democracy! This is a trademark of Europe that can be seen. Other societies, other continents, I think, could take an example of this. I can also quote a third party: With the European Constitution there is also a common foreign minister, a common security policy. This is a real outward signal, because it is important for others to see that Europe is involved in the world with a voice, and a real signal inwards, because it is important that all states take a lead when it comes to such important issues as neighbourhood policy when it comes to peace and prosperity in Europe. I therefore believe it is right and important that we send this signal with a European Constitution, and I would like to say that as the Austrian People's Party, we stand up with the full confidence and with good arguments for this European Constitution, because we are very interested in the fact that this Europe will become more integrated in the future and will ensure peace and prosperity in this world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6348	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. His speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6369	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the matter, Mr Spindelegger has already mentioned this, we are largely in agreement: We, too, are clearly in favour of acceptance, the ratification of this new European Constitution. I would just like to mention two main reasons for this. One point is: Citizens' rights will be strengthened – that has already been said. Citizens' rights are strengthened twice: on the one hand, by increasing participation rights by creating a People's Initiative at European level, and on the other hand by strengthening the rights of the European Parliament. Both result in a clearer expression of the will of European citizens. That's where we're going. The second point is – and that has already been mentioned – that: The European Constitution brings the legally binding nature of a Charter of Fundamental Rights within this European Constitution and thereby acquitable fundamental rights of all citizens, all people even affected by action by the European Union within the EU, against measures of the Union, against institutions of the Union. This too is an essential step towards making the European Union more citizen-friendly. That is why we are in favour of this Constitution. The other aspect I would like to point out is that the European Constitution also contributes to making the European Union more operational. It is important at a time like today that the institutions of the European Union are able to make decisions. This is promoted by increasing the scope for qualified majority voting in the Council. That too is a real step. That is why we agree to this Constitution. But let me also address another aspect. I have, as probably all the other Members here in the House, been confronted in recent days with a number of e-mails of concerned citizens, and their concerns go in two different directions: On the one hand, content is argued that the European Constitution establishes a neoliberal economic system in Europe. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the European Union and the concept of the internal market are based on an economic-liberal basic idea, and this Constitution does not change anything. If we want to change something about this, we need policies, but not the rejection of this Constitution. We are therefore in favour of this Constitution because, as democrats, we can also accept that we have not been able to prevail on all issues, and we will continue to work towards an economic policy at national and European level, which contributes to the employment of people from whom they can live. That's the political struggle you have to fight for! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second concern of citizens is that the European Constitution forces the Member States of the European Union to dramatically increase their military expenditure. Of course, some have concerns that, if that were the case, this could in any case lead to a reduction in social expenditure. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In all seriousness said: That is not true, this accusation or this criticism! In reality, the European Constitution provides that Member States should make more efficient use of their expenditure for military purposes. And against that we should be? Of course, it is useful to provide for a more efficient use of the financial resources spent for military purposes. Of course, it is no longer useful to maintain 25 infantry arms in the EU of the 25 Member States, which have to defend the external borders of each country. There is much more efficient use of the funds, and this is also our programme. Next point: It is also claimed by some or simply apodic that this EU constitution will eliminate the neutrality of Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: You've already done that!]] This too, ladies and gentlemen, is undoubtedly wrong in this form! It's just not right! Both the provisions providing solidarity and assistance in crisis situations do not necessarily affect neutrality, nor has the European Union's security policy concept been substantially amended by this European Constitution. Nothing forces Austria to pursue a policy within the EU and the future EU Constitution, which would not be compatible with neutrality. That is why we are in favour of this Constitution, because we are also committed to maintaining neutrality as an instrument of peacekeeping. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me say one last thing, ladies and gentlemen: Many of those who have written to me call for a referendum on this Constitution. [[Keeping a copy of it in height]] That's more than 300 pages of text. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are many states that provide for referendums because they force their constitution to do so or because they are for domestic policy reasons. You all who listen and watch today pay us a lot of money for doing this work, namely working through such things and comparing them with the alternative. I beg you, let's do this work, we'll make it serious!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6465	Mr Bösch is now speaking. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6486	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting a technical regulation that is necessary to bring about the ratification process for the new European Constitution in the High House. We liberals will vote in favour of this law today, and we are also in favour of this ratification of this new European Constitution, because it is necessary to keep a Union of 25 and soon 27 Member States functioning. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will have a much clearer relationship with this new European Constitution than with Nice's constitutional texts and before. We'll have a president elected. We will have a double majority in the main areas. We will have clearer distributions of competence. We shall have the codecision procedure for the European Parliament and a foreign minister for the European Union. However, we will also have enshrined the Charter of Civil Rights and the provisions of general interest in this European Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals see this need, and we support it – but not without saying that, of course, we will be critical of the realization, the implementation, the interpretation of this new European Constitution and will also pay attention to the interests of Austria. As of 2014, it will be necessary to re-establish the rule that every EU Member State has a Commissioner. The Federal Chancellor has already announced this, at a summit at European level, and we support it. It will also be necessary to ensure that there is a deepening of the European Union before new enlargement steps. Deepening means that in reality we are first testing the new rules of the European Constitution and making it clear what new steps the European Union can take in the future with this new Constitution at all and how these individual steps are taken, for example, as regards the new Foreign Minister, whether he meets the majority within the European Union and can make a truly efficient European foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the subject of 'population'. I cannot understand what my colleague has to say. Mr Spindelegger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would remind you all that we are already in agreement on the fact that the Federal Government is committed to a Europe-wide referendum at European level. We liberals have welcomed and supported this, and we support you, Federal Chancellor and Foreign Minister, in this effort to maintain a referendum at European level at the end of the ratification process on this Constitution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This ratification procedure has not yet reached its end. Many Member States of the European Union will still have national referendums; one has already gone on stage. Many EU Member States will have to inform their people of this new European Constitution, and we liberals think it is right. I think it is wrong to get out of here and say that the people do not understand such a constitution, that the people would be too stupid to vote on it. I do not think this is the right position in a democracy. The European level is always forced, ladies and gentlemen, to translate its political content so that it can understand the population of the individual EU Member States – and that must be our goal! [[Abg. Silhavy: This is your interpretation!]] We must not regret the fact that Europe has not yet arrived with the citizens, if the political level does not do enough for it, and if we want to deal with it in camera-listics, especially when it comes to making such an important decision as the new European Constitution. I think it is necessary for us to be able to initiate a referendum at European level and to also campaign against this new European Constitution, that we translate it, that we make it understandable to the citizens of our country. I believe that this is our commitment as a politician in this causa, and we should be aware of this commitment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are in favour of this new constitution for Europe, but will critically accompany its realization and interpretation in order to ensure the interests of the Republic of Austria. But we also want to involve the Austrian population. We are therefore in favour of a referendum! I would ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to support us freely. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[11:19]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6567	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall inform the House that Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues and colleagues are speaking in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested the establishment of an investigative committee to clarify the allegations made in connection with the award procedure for the construction of the EM-Stadion Klagenfurt. Furthermore, according to Article 33(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request made by five Members is to hold a debate on this request. In accordance with Rule 33(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote shall take place after completion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6593	Now comes Mrs Mag. Lunacek to the speaker's desk. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6615	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TVs! High house! The Minister for Finance has left out two short sentences from his written speech, which we would have liked to hear from his mouth, and I do not wish to abstain from them. They said: “Tax evasion is not a cavalier offence. It is theft at the general public.” [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I very much hope that the Minister of Finance did not, with the omission of these two sentences, dissociate or dissociate itself from their content. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: On the matter!]] Let me now come to the European Constitutional Treaty Empowerment Act. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what was before the beginning of the process of this European Constitution? – It was the failure of Nice, the failure of an Intergovernmental Conference, where, in a nightly “interest bazaar”, a bazaar of national interests, national governments failed to make a new proposal for this European Union, a proposal that actually means democracy of citizens and also brings us a step further from the Economic Union on which this European Union is based, towards a genuine political union. It was this failure of Nice, which was also involved in this federal government, this base of interest, namely, to orient itself populistly to national interests and to lose sight of the European whole, not to have it in mind at all. This led to the idea of setting up a European Convention, where a majority of parliamentarians – unfortunately not very many women, but still some – were represented, and parliamentarians, who made a draft there in a very own and completely new procedure. This would, I do not hide, also be better for us Greens than for what is now a draft Constitution. What happened then? – The Intergovernmental Conference went over it again – including this Federal Government and the Federal Chancellor – and unfortunately took out some things, for example the proposal for holding a European referendum, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Some improvements made!]] That's what my colleague Scheibner... [[Abg. Scheibner: I'll be right there.]] Or was it the colleague Bösch? Excuse me! – What Mr Bösch said earlier, namely that the liberals would be for European referendum, this federal government could have called for already during the Intergovernmental Conference. She could have sought alliances in the other European countries at the time, especially since some other countries wanted to see what was in the draft, actually come. Then there would be the possibility that the European people would vote on this Treaty together on the same day. This would actually give weight to this European idea even in the event of a referendum. But this opportunity has been rejected by this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. You could have achieved that! Unfortunately, you did it. In the same way, you were aware of the fact that a petition is being dealt with here in the National Council, as well as in the Constitutional Committee in mid-February, which provides for a referendum. We have supported the wish for this to be dealt with in the National Council. On the other hand, the government groups were opposed. They didn't want that! You said: No, we don't even want to talk about it! So do not tell us that you would have been in favour of a European referendum. You didn't try – and you didn't even want to discuss a referendum in Austria. It's clear to us: We want a referendum at European level, and we will continue to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] In the same way, we advocate Greens with a warring yes to this Constitution. There are some points which we do not like so well, but in general it is a foundation for European democracy. This Constitution enshrines fundamental rights, the EU becomes a subject of international law, for the first time in the history of human rights, social rights are declared classic human rights. The guarantee that people may no longer be discriminated against by reason of their belonging to different groups stands inside. Women's and men's equality bid is being reinforced – that is necessary, especially in the case of Austria. Other objectives are: sustainable development, comprehensive peace mission, fair world trade and much more. However, civil and military conflict prevention in defence policy is also enshrined in this Constitution, which for the first time has raised it to the same level, namely, conflict prevention at all as part of peace policy. That is one of several reasons why we will advocate a fighting yes to this Constitution and work towards further improvement in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6712	Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6739	High house! I can explain why this new European Constitution is so important. The old constitution is simply no longer in modern time for a Union that includes 25 Member States. The procedures are extremely complicated, there are, as far as I know, 27 different co-determination procedures between the Council, Parliament and all the other institutions. There is still the completely impenetrable three-pillar structure: The first pillar is Community law, the second pillar is the pure measures, for example in foreign policy, which are negotiated between governments, so to speak, between the Member States, and the third pillar is a kind of mixed form. There are insufficient answers to precisely those questions that move European citizens – including Austrians – especially, such as issues relating to the economy, jobs or internal security. Overall, the old constitution offers many blockades. Thus, by the principle of unanimity, virtually everything can be blocked if anything does not fit it, and that is, I do not think, useful in a Union that wants to move on. A new constitution has therefore been drawn up. This Constitution has been prepared by a Convention, by more than 100 employees, and Giscard d’Estaing has then presented an excellent draft, which from an Austrian point of view has been acceptable to 95 percent, and this draft could also be improved in some points. I would like to expressly thank all the Convention members – some of them here – especially Farnleitner, Einm, Bösch and Voggenhuber. However, my thanks also apply to all other employees who have been involved in the working groups. They have all done a good job for Europe and Austria. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to the representatives of the Freeman and to the Greens.]] You also have to say: With over 100 members, you can't really vote everything basic democratically and make it in consensus. [[Abg. Mandak: Oh yes!]] No, no, no, The whole part of the three has never been discussed in the Conventionplenum – in order to clean up with a legend here. That is why it was very useful and necessary that the really constitutional representatives, namely the Council, the Intergovernmental Conference and the European Parliament, have worked very closely together, and we now, the European Union, together with the national parliaments, have a draft that I believe is truly viable. What does the new draft Constitution bring? – In particular, it brings the long-aware integration of fundamental, freedom and civil rights into the indictable European Constitution. In the future, a European citizen, if directly affected, will be able to go to the European Court of Justice to challenge his right. By the way, we were Austrians leading, because we have a very wide-ranging individual right of complaint for our citizens, and we have implemented ourselves with this area. A new European Foreign Minister will be created, the institutions will be slimmed down, the procedures will be simplified, the blockades will be significantly reduced, and the Union of 25 will regain a decision-making force as it once had the Union with nine Member States. You don't think that's minor! This is actually a very big throw that has succeeded. Of course it is a compromise! We, too, have not been able to achieve all the projects we have jointly undertaken, but in general, important principles have been achieved, such as the equality of Member States, the upgrading of national parliaments, the protection of minorities, the control of the Court of Justice for Council decisions. Certain important issues remain subject to unanimity, such as the use of energy or the use of Austrian water or the regulation of land and soil and general provisions. It has therefore been brought into this new draft Constitution very reasonablely. I am very pleased that, as I suspect, today we will have a unanimous decision on the empowerment law and, in the near future, unanimity for the Constitutional Treaty itself, for this is also a good signal that Austria is really taking its negotiating outcome – as one of 25 – seriously. Parliamentarians have also worked very intensively on the main committee, the European Committee and on the various interim information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Allow me to conclude by saying one more word on referendum. I do not hide my scepticism that what we now have is a European Fleckerlüpich, 10 countries vote by plebiscite, 15 countries do not vote, actually dissatisfying. I also believe that the complexity of this matter is not really suitable for 25 individual referendums. What I've always thought was right – you know, I've often said it here too – is: If for the first time we have a European Constitution or a Constitutional Treaty, it would be a good idea to confront the people of Europe with it, less because of the details in Article III, paragraph 3. 24 lit. 10. The details are not the point, but for the first time a European constitution of populus, of legitimizing the people of Europe, I think it makes sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have been massively committed to this, unfortunately – I say here – have found zero support. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You have been too late for this!]] Mrs Lunacek, it is not true by repeating what you have said here. To claim that Austria has prevented a European referendum in the Convention or in the Intergovernmental Conference is simply ridiculous. It's wrong! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You've done too little about it!]] I've got myself – detectable! – always used for this. Please take note, at least today, of this unanimous decision-making process! I would be very pleased, Madam President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm deeply convinced: A European referendum will come one day. We will continue to do so. It should be based, for example, on the model of Switzerland, i.e. not on 25 or 30 blockade possibilities, but on double majority, majority of the European population and majority of the states, as well as on Switzerland's excellent pre-examination. I will continue to fight for it. This time it has not succeeded, but I hope that now slowly, even through the experiences of the individual national referendums, the insight is growing that this is actually a right path. I would like to thank you once again for the cooperation and ask for joint decision-making.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6829	Now, Mr. Vice-Chancellor is speaking. Its speaking time is 8 minutes; The light shines 1 minute before the end of the speaking time. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6850	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, many developments in the area of the European Union can be questioned critically. One can see the opportunities in the course of the Increase more clearly and see the risks less or vice versa. The new European Constitution also provides an opportunity to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that a number of things in the European Constitution have not yet been achieved and can be critically questioned, but the European Constitution represents a new quality, which provides Europe with more transparency and, above all, offers Europe, especially the EU Member States, more security in terms of sovereignty. The European Constitutional Treaty simplifies and also redeploys the founding agreements. For the first time, the European Constitution explicitly defines the values of the Union; Values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights, minority rights, the prohibition of discrimination and equality between men and women. With the anchoring of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Constitutional Treaty, classic bourgeois and political rights as well as social rights are now also binding. For the first time, the European Constitutional Treaty allows a voluntary withdrawal of an EU Member State from the European Union. An appropriate national decision has now been adopted, which has so far been highly controversial, because it was an irregular area. The European Constitutional Treaty also creates a new procedure to be applied if there is a clear risk of serious violation of the values of the European Union by an EU Member State. This new regime, ladies and gentlemen, prevents illegal and arbitrary sanctions against EU Member States, as was the case in 2000, for example, against Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The new European Constitutional Treaty also strengthens the powers of the European Parliament. It brings about more democratisation of the European Union and a strengthening of the representative body chosen by citizens of the Union. The codecision procedure will be extended to other policy areas. The decision-making right of the European Parliament in determining the Union's finances is significantly extended and thereby strengthened. However, a very essential point seems to me to be the strengthening of the legal system of the European Union. The European Constitutional Treaty creates a verifiability of the acts of the European Council with legal effect vis-à-vis third parties by the European Court of Justice. This means a decisive improvement in the legal protection of individuals against acts of the European Union. However, for the position of national parliaments in the structure of the European Union, it is also essential to introduce own procedures for verifying compliance with subsidiarity by the European Constitutional Treaty. In the future, ladies and gentlemen, it will be up to each national Parliament to oppose proposals from the European Commission if a violation of the principle of subsidiarity is suspected. The citizens' initiative will also create a new instrument, namely for the first time a means of direct democracy within the European Union. This is also to be credited on the home page. Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of European security and defence policy, the European Constitutional Treaty creates a solidarity clause in the area of disasters and terrorist attacks and a mutual guarantee of assistance. We also have a strong debate on the subject; a guarantee of assistance in the event of armed attack, with a neutral Member State such as Austria deciding for itself whether and, if so, to what extent it provides assistance. I am clear from this point of view that the FPÖ has always expressed its support for a guarantee of assistance within the European Union when it comes to securing peace for Europe and peace in Europe and thus ensuring security in our country as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! Finally, let me address a subject whose problem could not be resolved either in the Convention or at the Intergovernmental Conference on the European Constitutional Treaty. Keywords: Euratom. The Euratom Treaty also remains an independent Treaty with its own legal personality in the new EU Constitution, and that, as I believe, is a completely dissatisfying situation in the longer term. The Fragmentary Euratom Protocol does not meet the objective of making the European Union more democratic, efficient and transparent. The long-term objective must therefore continue to be to achieve the gradual expiry of the Euratom Treaty. At this point, I would like to point out, in principle, that, for all the following discussions on this or similar subject, the Euratom funds need to be used exclusively for the decommissioning of installations and, in future, to create explicit legal bases for European security standards. Ladies and gentlemen. The European Constitutional Treaty gives the EU a clear legal structure. It will be consolidated with a constitution that sets out the competences, nominates procedures, declares fundamental rights and thus leads to greater legal certainty and more democracy. However, the European Constitution also guarantees the Member States their sovereignty and ownership – we must live and live up to this Constitution and the Europe of the regions themselves. I myself would have wished for a referendum on this, but at European level. As has already been said: Hopefully, we do not have to wait long for such Europe-wide voting to be a reality.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6947	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6969	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! With today's empowerment law, we decide – thank God, as I believe, unanimously – the constitutional basis for the ratification of the EU Constitution. This is the same procedure that we have already chosen in the Amsterdam Treaty, in the Nice Treaty and in the EU enlargement, and this procedure is both politically and legally correct. A referendum on this is not necessary, from our point of view, in Austria. The vast majority of teachers in Austria are also right in this opinion; there is a single teaching opinion that says that a referendum would be necessary. A referendum in Austria is necessary, according to the Austrian Constitution, if the building laws of our Constitution violate That is not the case. The building laws – the Republican principle, the democratic principle and the rule of law – remain fully preserved and expanded! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, and I too am of this opinion, Parliament has to decide in this case. We are delegates from the people, we must assume responsibility towards the people and also make decisions within the people's minds. From my point of view, the European Constitution – and this has been seen by almost all of my previous speakers – is a success model, a historic success. It is a sign that Europe is developing further. Europe is based on values such as tolerance, non-discrimination, equality and solidarity, and if we ratify the European Constitution, if we accept this Constitution, then Europe will be strengthened in these values with which there is a very strong sign, and that can only be in our interest. With this Constitution, we are also sending a signal of cohesion, of strength in Europe, and I think that is a very important and very strong sign, especially in times of growing terrorism against all the other regions of the world. However, the European Constitution should also help to strengthen the identity of EU citizens. This should also signal such a constitution, apart from its practicality and its need. We decided in Austria a few years ago by a large majority to join the EU. At that time a referendum was important and also right. Now it is about the development of the EU in terms of practicality, the strength of the EU, as I believe we have no alternative but to stand on this Constitution – and that is the most important – and to support it accordingly in the future. Austria is a small part of a large whole. We have brought ourselves in again and again and also very committed ourselves. The Austrian Federal Government has made many proposals, many considerations. As a small country, we think we are much safer, we are right there, and therefore the Austrian People's Party will continue to ratify the EU Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7029	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7050	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has chosen a two-stage procedure in the context of the EU to ratify international treaties, and also the European Constitution, on the basis of the fact that international treaties, which include constitutional provisions, should be marked separately. Given the extensive provisions on the extent to which the EU treaties have an effect on Austrian law, this two-stage procedure has been agreed. First, one takes a decision on the possibility of concluding this contract. We are in the first stage of this two-stage procedure. To take a decision on the fact that a contract may be concluded in the end means a double check of the type-approval procedure. international treaty by the Austrian Constitutional Legislator, and I consider this procedure to be a very wise and wise procedure. This procedure, however, also includes the need to take very careful account of these treaties at the parliamentary level and to take all the objections into account accordingly. Of course, we all know the petition that requires a referendum for the approval of this Treaty. However, I do not believe that a referendum is necessary because, by virtue of the case law of the European Court of Justice, European law has already taken precedence over national law and therefore those articles, which, after some of the findings, bring about a change in Austrian building laws, have already been prejudicial to the case law of the European Court of Justice. So this argument goes empty. It can be assumed, especially since this regulation has so far been applied, that the European Constitution will not alter the Austrian Constitution. In addition, my previous speakers have already made it clear that the European Constitution is a correct step in the right direction, namely for more civil rights, for more parliamentary influence. Citizens' rights are strengthened by the fact that, under this Constitution, there will be a popular initiative to strengthen the opportunities of the European Parliament so that the elected mandates of the European Parliament can also influence the policies of the European Union, which are increasingly important. I think this is a real step in the right direction. In all cases, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which now has reasonable fundamental rights, must be mentioned. It is worth mentioning that the general provision of services has been enshrined in this Constitution, as has the protection of minorities. In addition, legal systems and control of legal decisions have been strengthened. In essence, it can be assumed that this Constitution will improve citizens' rights, improve national intervention opportunities, and also improve parliamentary control of Council decisions. I see in this Treaty, which is now to be adopted as a European Constitution, a step in the right direction, although it would have been preferable to us, a European referendum could have been allowed by such a large international treaty. I think it would have been reasonable and also in the sense of identifying the citizens of the European Union for a referendum to be held at European level. I do not consider a referendum at national level necessary for the above-mentioned reasons. A corresponding petition for treatment has ended in the Constitutional Committee. It is a pity that this petition was not discussed in connection with the decision on this empowerment law, but unfortunately we could not negotiate this petition because the government parties were opposed to a negotiation in the Constitutional Committee. However, I believe that Austria has a conscientious, careful and very, very wise approach to European Union international treaties, and this procedure must also be justified in relation to the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7109	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7135	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A little bit of this is already symptomatic, even today's decision-making for the structure of the European Union: everything is very, very technical. Of course, we too agree with this law today, the empowerment law, which empowers the Federal Government and also the National Council to ratify the EU Constitution, but we see the real impact: The whole thing is not so captivating! And this is a pity, because we should be pleased that we are at least one step further in the process of deepening the European Union, a constitution for this Union, which should form the basis for further development towards a political Union that we all want. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But all this really doesn't matter, even with the population. I therefore believe that we already have a lot to do to bring people closer to the benefits, but also to the disadvantages of all these projects, the idea, the vision of a common Europe as a peace union, as a tool for future generations on this continent to live in peace, in freedom, in prosperity. I believe that this should be one of the most important objectives of the Europe project! One of the objectives should also be that we should carry this idea of peace, this security idea also across the borders of this common Europe. However, the European Union has also been involved in a structural debate in many discussions. Member of the European Parliament One has said here, too, that in this EU constitution there would be a lot in it, but one should not be afraid, because we should not participate anywhere where we did not want to participate! – This is not progress, and that is nothing new, Mr. Eine, even NATO member states do not have to go into military operations if they do not want to! But we must finally express these solidarity ideas within the European Union, if a country of this Union is threatened – whether it is military, which we all do not hope is the case in the event of a disaster or in other security areas – all have the duty to do so – the moral duty! – to support this country accordingly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Ein! It is completely missing to have a re-negotiation debate, because the neutrality of which the Austrians believe that their security is guaranteed, by 1998 at the latest, you abolished the constitutional innovation that enabled Austria to take part in European security measures even without the UN mandate. – But that should not be the core of this debate. We have brought a lot of criticism into this constitutional discussion, but we welcome the fact that there is this Constitution – it is already ahead of Austria, because, unfortunately, in Austria, it has not succeeded in finding a consensus on a new constitution, even in the Constitutional Convention. At European level, there are good rules, we have been grateful to God for maintaining the principle of unanimity on essential issues, but unfortunately there are shortcomings in the field of direct democracy. I too regret that this important project of a common European Constitution cannot be blessed by a plebiscite, i.e. by a European referendum. If I hear that the Social Democrats are here for this too, I have to ask: Where are the social-democratic parties of Europe when it comes to making the mood of these instruments of direct democracy? Where is the large group of Conservatives in Europe when it comes to implementing direct democracy in practice? – I believe the Austrian government representatives were the only ones – unfortunately the only ones! – who wanted to implement it accordingly. I'll tell you: I also do not like the fact that we now have ten individual referendums, because this Constitution is a pan-European question! It is different in terms of enlargement, such as Turkey, which is about the rights and interests of the individual states, the national states. There must be mandatory national referendums from our point of view! [[I should like to thank the Liberals and the Members for their support. Molterer and Dr. stupid.]] I say to you: Although this Europe-wide referendum unfortunately does not exist and ten member states do national referendums, it should not be excluded that a national referendum on it is carried out in Austria. To come here with representative democracy is an argument, not a question, but to say in essential questions to the population: We will make the decision for you, that is too complicated anyway!, does not correspond to my concept of democracy. – But that the Social Democracy, which even demands a referendum on administrative acts here, is now advocating it here, is somewhat incomprehensible. So from our point of view: Consent to this Constitution – with all criticism – but the demand that the instruments of direct democracy should also be introduced at European level. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7217	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7239	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! The European Constitution fulfils a long-standing demand or a wish of the Greens. Essential... [[Abg. Großruck: We are looking forward to this!]] Not only the Greens, but also the Greens, first of all the Johannes Voggenhuber, who is seen by friends and opponents as a European Union expert and as a real champion of a European Constitution. At this point also a warm thanks to him! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, this European Constitution is a great step forward. Our desire for a peace union, for a social union, has been partly fulfilled in very massive parts of this Constitution. It is a progress towards democracy that the European Parliament has now received much more extensive co-decision than it had before. So far, the European Parliament has only had very limited rights, so it is important that European citizens now have the opportunity to really influence Parliament. – This is one of the great progress made. A second major progress is the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which for the first time will be the possibility at European level to challenge fundamental social rights, even though we are still far away from a European social order. There are a lot of critical points that the Greens have repeatedly discussed, especially in the third part of the Constitution – not in the basic part, but rather in the area of concrete implementation. This part is also predicted – from my point of view correctly – that it contains strong neoliberal aspects. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a terrible thing!]] This is about liberalising services. It is certainly also problematic to link to the Stability Pact in certain areas, but it must be noted that the recognition of the right to public-interest services, i.e. the so-called general provision of services, is for the first time enshrined in a European Constitution. This means that access to these services should be ensured for all. It has been reinforced by the requirement of equality between women and men, which, as I believe, is a very important and necessary matter, even though we see, for example, in Austria, but also in many other countries, the sheer, as far as the income of men and women is concerned. There is an obligation to combat social exclusion and discrimination as set out in this European Constitution. In other words, we can assume that this Constitution will provide positive impetus to national levels, that is, that in Austria we too will benefit from the fundamental improvements of the European Constitution. An important point not included in the Constitution, but where we believe that it is very important that it is not enshrined in the Constitution, is EURATOM. EURATOM has been established as its own document and has not been incorporated into the Constitution. It is the fulfilment of a Green demand that EURATOM has not been defined in the European Constitution. That is the expression of the fact that the Anachronism of this Treaty is already seen at European level, that it is almost defined as an attachment. It also determines that it does not have this importance and that the possibility is also given – at least theoretically! – to leave EURATOM without having to leave the European Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This Constitution is certainly not the end of a process! From our point of view, it is the beginning of a further discussion; it is an important step forward, which is being taken, the first step towards a more democratic, social, sustainable European Union. But there's still a lot missing! There is a lack of a European peace system and also a European social order with social standards that are defined, as well as a civil conflict prevention. There is no definition of the implementation of the social market economy and full employment. So there are still a few things to do for us. We understand this decision, which will take place in a few months for the European Constitution, as a task for further work, to improve this Constitution. There will still be a lot of work and a lot of commitment to improve the European Constitution in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7301	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 789 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. The two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes have been achieved. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is, in turn, unanimously adopted. [[12:01:51]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 511/A by Mr Karlheinz Kupfer, Mr Klaus Wittauer, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 and the Federal Law on the Environment Senate (827 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7361	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Krainer spoke. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7388	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This change of law is a lazy compromise for the environment and clearly worsens the environmental laws in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ten years ago, we adopted the Environmental Impact Assessment Act here, and since then we have been working together in Austria with all those concerned and taking seriously the concerns of the population, looking at the health impact of projects and the impact on the environment. I mean, that's a good way. Just a few weeks ago, we expanded the rights of the population, where a large majority decided that it should have more rights. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The quote: The environmental impact assessment is a success story, not from me, but from Minister Pröll just a few months ago. And now this successful path of mutual speech is to be abandoned. Why is that? – Red Bull has submitted a project very important for the region in Spielberg, and the members of the government of the ÖVP were heavily overburdened with the environmental impact assessment, salopp said: You've slammed a lot! That was a big setback for the region. The Steirers expect that the state government in Styria is as efficient as it works in many other federal states and is able to carry out an environmental impact assessment, such as in Vienna and Lower Austria. Vienna recently completed a very large project, i.e. the extension of the U2 metro line in a positive way – within six months. They will admit that this is probably a major project. But the reaction of the ÖVP in Styria is not to ensure that the administration works, but it wants us to decide here that the rights of the environment and the rights of the people will be cut. We believe that if the ÖVP is not willing and unable to provide a functioning administration in the Styria, it should make the place that can do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister Pröll! Your role in this question is also remarkable – unfortunately not in the positive. They put the interests of your party, the party's interests apparently ahead of those of the environment and people in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] And that, although the head of the state of your home country, Erwin Pröll, has massively criticized this new law, even though the environmental lawyers in Austria, no matter which state, also from Styria, have strongly criticized this novel, even your own party newspaper, the “New Volksblatt”, today has brought a devastating comment on this proposal for a law. - They're over everything. They were also unable to eliminate the EU's illegalities, the constitutional illegalities which we discussed in the Committee in a very detailed manner and which, on the basis of the EU directive, were very detailed in order to eliminate them. [[Abg. Großruck: We know your details!]] They cause great uncertainty in the population. [[Abg. Grandruck: Go, stop!]] In Lower Austria, there are lawyers who are already examining whether perhaps the construction of the third runway at Vienna-Swechat Airport would be possible without EIA – which I do not believe, but that is already feared by many people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] There are two ways: The one possibility I see in a modern country is that in large projects one can... [[Abg. Wittauer: That's what you're saying, because the spectators are here! This is a lie!]] [[Call: Order call]] Unfortunately, you can't follow Mr Wittauer's calls on television now, but they don't do a lot of things anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The role you play here, Mr Environment Minister, is as if an employee were threatened by his boss a wage reduction of €100, and four weeks later the boss comes and says: Not 100 €, but only 50 €! – And then you expect the employee to be grateful, as he has “only” 50 € pay reduction. It stays with: This novelle, also with the change you have presented here today, brings a deterioration of the environmental laws in Austria, brings a circumcision of the rights of those concerned and the population, and we will certainly not agree to that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I say: In a modern Austria, you sit at a table with all those involved in large projects and take people's concerns seriously. In an Austria à la ÖVP one does not do this, one does not even talk to the people again and simply rides over the interests of the people and the interests of the environment. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: And that with 160!]] We from SPÖ opt for modern Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7514	As the next speaker, I should like to speak to the honourable Member. Member of the European Parliament, also for you, five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7548	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is indisputable because various international studies demonstrate the number one in Europe, which reaches environmental quality and environmental policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: That was once!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's been a long time!]] This does not come from about: For almost 20 years, ÖVP has been setting up environmental ministers in this country. That is to say, we would not be representing the concerns of the environment in this country, contradicting any historical view and reality. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Why do you get worse then?]] On the matter itself. Austria is not only the environmental model country in Europe, Austria also has a long tradition in the implementation of major events, be it in the field of sport, but also culture and in various other areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederweiser]] In sport, think only of the performance of Olympic Games many years ago in Innsbruck or now about the application of Salzburg! Think of the football European Championship we'll be running soon, or of such great events as World Cup races in Schladming, Kitzbühel! These are not only great sporting events, ladies and gentlemen, but also economic factors in these regions, which could no longer be thought away from them. What would Kitzbühel do without the cock comb race? What would sladming be without the night slalom? What would be the Spielberg region without the A1 ring? [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have the damn duty to make these projects economically necessary – and not to do what the opposition is constantly trying to do here in terms of environmental laws. In the case of the EIA, we are only talking about a procedural law, we are not talking about the fact that we would also review a single environmental standard downwards. On the contrary, they all stay untouched! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But what we want to do in the event of such events is to make the procedures for such installations as short as possible without affecting environmental quality only in the remote test. That's why it's not about anything else, ladies and gentlemen. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let's take a look at the matter in detail. International organisations such as the FIS, UEFA, FIFA and others are giving major events to the associations there in the countries of the world. There is also a great economic interest, both in the event organisations and, of course, in each region. As good and great as the EIA law is in principle – it is for the integration and clarification of all interests, environmental interests, economic interests, regional interests – it must be said that it is also a very large, very comprehensive procedure, which can, of course, often take up to ten, twelve, fourteen months, even up to two years. [[Abg. Mandak: Not at all!]] We cut it short in the last novel. But it often took that long. For certain projects under pressure of time, where the success of the project or the application for such a project, which is so important for the region, depends on the fact that the procedures, the authorisation procedures can be handled quickly, are an obstacle or an obstacle. And with this innovation, we do nothing but leave the environment untouched, namely the number one thing in Europe, but we will shorten the procedures for approving these projects to a degree that will continue to allow Austria and the Austrian municipalities, regions and countries to apply for such events and projects within the meaning of the regional population. [[Call the SPÖ: Complete nonsense!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7670	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Glawischnig. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7692	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! My colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the ÖVP, has now made a fair effort to justify some of the reasons why, within two weeks, we have now received a novel of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act by Parliament, but no one understands it. A few months ago, the world was still fine. Since the Minister for the Environment celebrated ten years of EIA, ten years of environmental impact assessment in Austria at the Palmenhaus in Vienna Schönbrunn and has praised the entire benefits of this environmental impact assessment and has confirmed how wonderful it all works. Again on the facts: It is always presented here as if the environmental impact assessment in Austria was an instrument for delaying, preventing, i.e. something bad. The opposite is true. The environmental assessment takes on average ten months and not 16, 18 months or two years, ten months! The environmental impact assessment brings benefits to the project promoter, because there is a single authority that guides the project promoter through the entire process. The economy has always demanded: One-stop-shop – one of their favorite requirements. This is what exists here instead of a procedure for nature conservation, water law, building permit, commercial law. So for the operator a clear advantage with a manageable time frame. It brings an advantage to the environment, it does not look at every environmental medium, such as air, water, extra, but there is a total of the entire project, and then one tries to minimize the environmental impact, make it better to solve it more intelligently. There are also advantages for the citizens, for the citizens. They learn much earlier what is planned, they are involved in the procedure, their concerns and fears are taken seriously. They have the opportunity not only to challenge individual interests, but also interests in nature conservation, environmental protection, noise protection, even in the proceedings to the Supreme Court. This is the advantage for the citizen and for the citizen. For project operators, for the environment and for people living around such large projects, it is thus an overall advantage. This is what the Minister of the Environment has seen until a few months ago. Then Spielberg came. There are obviously a few project operators in Austria who say: Everyone in Austria must comply with the 130-km/h limit, only I would like to drive 200 km/h, for me this should not apply. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: 160!]] That's why we're making a novel. So it is not that we adapt projects to the environmental situation and to the laws, but we are adapting to such projects now – you are doing that, and you have to be responsible for that. And this is the unjust. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If, in Lower Austria, in Vienna or elsewhere, a waste combustion plant is built, a cement plant is built or any other plant is built, the environmental impact assessment must be carried out there. But for special people, there should be exceptions now. We have now argued with you for two months now that you would have taken a smooth EU infringement of law with a conviction before the European Court of Justice, possibly with payment of a penalty. And come yesterday. They come here and say: All right, let's give it up, praise us! I can only tell you: What is now on the table continues to be such a massive deterioration and so incomprehensible, especially from the point of view of an Environment Minister, that I cannot understand how you can make yourself here and defend it with only one addition. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] It is indeed a massive cave-out, a massive deterioration in the core of Austrian environmental rights, this instrument, which for many years has created a wonderful combination of environmental, civil and project interests, operators' interests. That's what you're trying to get out of here today. And the worst thing is, you're moaning it with a total nonsense. They say that if you don't have such a thing, it's better internationally for the security of sites for such events as European Championships, ski races and Olympics. I say the opposite is true. Look at Spain! In Spain, the Olympic application for the year 2012 is now being applied. One of the major arguments that Spain is leading to the meeting is: We make an Olympics where no additional ton of CO2 goes into the air, we make ecological games, as in 2000 in Australia, ecological green games. And since 1992 this has also been an additional building principle at the International Olympic Committee: To understand culture, sport and environmental protection together. I don't understand how Austria can be so nailed as it goes back. We are not an environmental developing country, we have something to show. We can also create great European championships ecologically, even in the interests of those people who live all around. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It also bothers me that you start playing the environment and the economy against each other again, that you play sports and the environment against each other. The opposite is feasible and the opposite is true, and we need exactly such integrative instruments as an environmental impact assessment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: It is estimated to be produced here today after the end and to abolish this environmental impact assessment, according to what has happened in the environmental field over the past few months: We're top riders! [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true! Don't be abolished!]] With regard to greenhouse gas emissions – we will never achieve the Kyoto target again – we are 30 percent above where we want to go. You want to break the successful eco electricity law, you have passed a genetic engineering law that makes it possible to release in Austria, you have agreed to nuclear fusion in Brussels, i.e. nuclear promotion, and you allow hundreds of thousands of children to remain exposed to the fine dust pollution in the cities. Instead of doing something about it, they simply want to double the limit values. This is the environmental policy of the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7770	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. Mr deputies, five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7796	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mrs Glavischnig, everything will be abolished, say out here. It's very cool what you're saying. Austria is and remains one with regard to environmental criteria Environmental country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If You make a comparison with Spain, then I have to say who was in Spain, who knows how to deal with the environment in part. So please do this comparison! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We don't want to get there at all!]] What we want is a process acceleration. They come out here and say – the Austrians listen to this – that the EIA will be abolished. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great!]] Nothing! Officials have to work faster, NGOs have to make better arguments and get to grips with problems at the beginning. We want major events to be conducted. I would like to remind you that Innsbruck got into an Olympic party. Today, it would no longer be possible to do what was done earlier. The disaster, as you have seen in Bormio, I do not want to experience in Austria. 70 percent of the total tourism is in Tyrol. Austria presents itself outside with these major events. And you go out here and say we make laws against the people! Now I am telling you something - I do not know how many Members from Styria are here - that the state government in Styria has given rise to this because it has worked badly. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Everyone's here!]] Head of State Klasnic has not implemented something there. We MEPs feel responsible to think about this occasion of Spielberg and to change legislation for the people there, for the jobs. It's not long ago: Remember the situation in East Styria, in Carinthia or also in Burgenland! All the people who left their family on Sunday evening or on Monday in the morning and came back only on Friday evening, for the weekend so! Remember what the families do, what the children do, what that meant for the women! You claim from the opposition that the only criterion in this Environmental Impact Assessment Act is that we would now ‘deliver’ something. – We do not do something, but create something new, namely: Jobs, infrastructure, especially at major events, value added for people and so on. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Today it is – unlike in the past – that more than 80 percent can work in the Styria region, for example. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, the working class of our Freemans also spoke about rural areas: an incredibly important topic, as we know in Tyrol. It is also important in Styria, especially in the rural area, to implement projects quickly. [[Intrusions of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Therefore: What does that mean for Spielberg, what does that mean for the people there? Of course, some people there feel that they have been left by politics. We liberals will not leave them, because Austria will continue to remain in the field of environment number one, as well as what is happening to the economic location. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] We want to support rural structures and we want people to stay where they were born, so that they can work and live there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the run-up to the whole thing, I've seen some of them try and become intimidated, and I'll give you an example. Yesterday there were NGOs representatives with me; I don't even say the name. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] They said to me: Mr Wittauer, please withdraw this request. And: In the case of the three major projects we will not proceed, the EIA is quickly possible there, but you know that we can take this to the length of the EIA! [[Calls: Unheard]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is the background!]] That's an unsavory proposal! It is important for us, ladies and gentlemen, that people have a future that people know what we stand for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] – Well, these NGOs representatives also come to us! [[New call of the abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] We from the coalition parties take care of the environment. – On the other hand, you are insecure about the opposition, making populist politics! I could also say that yesterday, Mrs Glavischnig, than you... – Now I would rather not put this word in my mouth, because otherwise I will get an order; but I would like to use it. You of the Greens, you, Mrs Glavischnig, say the untruth, and you deliberately say the untruth and use only populism the High House here to try to make people know, only you are there for them! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's absurd what you say!]] [[New calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In any event, we liberals will continue to pursue or, of course, implement our positive policies for people, for families, for the environment, for regions which were neglected a little earlier. Summary: All environmental rights are preserved. You will still have to take all your accusations back from the opposition! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And now I would like to say something to you, Mrs Glavischnig: Please go with us to the Styria and tell the people there who rely on the politics you want to give people there! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] You, Mrs Glavischnig, will then feel abandoned, and you will certainly not be elected for what you have listed here today. I promise you!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7982	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. Confirmation time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8000	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We heard a lot today in the speeches here and also in the debate in the Committee on EIA yesterday, and I can say: To an increasing extent, I have the impression that apples have often been confused with pears in this discussion. [[Calls to the Greens.]] As Minister for Agriculture, I would like to make a few clarifications on this point at the outset, namely where we stand on EIA, and what we are discussing today, something that I see as an important point so that the citizens of our country are not unsure, and this is only for tactical reasons. So I would like to give an answer to this issue, namely the correct answers we have been looking for and finding. On the first topic: Ten years of environmental impact assessment in Austria; just since 1. ==References== They were ministers of the Austrian People's Party who have developed and developed this important instrument on the issue of procedure as well as citizens' participation. The aim of the EIA is – this must be remembered in order to be able to discuss the present amendment without any emotion and clarity – to avoid environmental damage in accordance with the precautionary principle from the outset, to look at environmental impacts in a holistic and comprehensive manner; that has already been said. Further objectives: better preparation of projects and approval procedures; To include environmental concerns with the same importance as other concerns in the assessment of the decision and, lastly, to make the approval procedures of projects more transparent and comprehensible, with the participation of the public. This environmental impact assessment has also been implemented as a concentrated authorisation procedure for the faster and more efficient handling of the EIA authorities, with the national government, and has worked perfectly in the past – and this will continue to be so in the future. There is therefore no reason at all to go away from the target of the EIA, ladies and gentlemen, from the broad guidelines. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: There is no reason at all to change this, you wanted to say!]] However, what some of the opposition might clearly have gone away from – that is, before I come to the concrete amendment request – is the fact that in December 2004 there was a vote here in the High House on the fact that next to the neighbours, in addition to the environmental lawyers, next to the localities, in addition to the nearby communities, civil initiatives are party positions and in the future also, from 1. June of this year, the NGO's party position in the EIA procedure. A very important point, then! At any rate, I can remember that in this vote in December 2004, not all the political groups of the House voted in favour of such acceptance of NGOs. . But I do not want to say more closely now, ladies and gentlemen, how these decisions were taken at the time, on the issue of environmental impact assessment, and also in the context of the European Union. There is a directive of the European Union which clearly regulates the scope of the environmental impact assessment also for Austria, with its annexes, which point out in detail the procedures for which EIA procedures are to be carried out, or not. In any event, certain procedures are intended to carry out individual checks. I repeat: Single tests. – This is important, ladies and gentlemen, and I will come back to it later. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is super intelligent!]] So why individual tests on certain projects? – You do today of the opposition as if something new would be started on the issue of international major events or on already existing race routes with individual fixing procedures! If you look at the statistics, you can see that there have been 119 EIA approval procedures with us up to now; however, completed detection procedures 251! You can also see this clearly, ladies and gentlemen: It is therefore not a new instrument, but one that has been valid for a long time! With regard to amendment or amendment, I would like to refer, in particular, to the comments made by Mrs Glavischnig, who claimed here at the speaker's desk that the environmental impact assessment will be'repealed'! – That’s completely wrong! I should like to point out that, with this amendment, of course, we are completely moving within the rules of the EIA legislation! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That a committee chairman has so little idea!]] In the future – and you have forgotten this too, Mrs Glawischnig; therefore, let us say that in the meantime, all infrastructure projects in our country, i.e. road construction, subway construction, which Mr Krainer has addressed, as well as rail construction, industrialisation, smoking castles! –, slopes on glaciers et cetera, completely untouched by this novel and, of course, are still subject to EIA: with citizen participation, with opposition proceedings. Therefore, no change in these central areas at all. What is correct and important is that, for international major events based on international treaties, new answers are now being sought with the amendment proposal, but not in the circumvention of the EIA, but with a decision to determine whether these few important projects are EIA mandatory or not. And it is also clearly written: If negative impacts on the environment are to be expected, then, of course, EIA obligations continue to exist in these projects. [[Calls to the Greens.]] And if the authority comes to its decision, there is no EIA duty, one can appeal to the Environmental Senate, which, by the way, we are successful in extending this decision for the future. This too is an important step; there is legal certainty for all involved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Mrs Glawischnig then also questions the environmental policy balance, then I have to come back to a few issues that some of them seem to have gone away, because this is particularly up-to-date in these days: Emissions Trading Directive, Covering the pollution emissions of the Austrian industry by 1. Introduced in January 2005, diesel particle filters as an important contribution to addressing the fine dust problem with effect from mid-year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Yesterday, the boss of Mercedes – Madam Member, I know you don't want to hear that – said he will go to the standard production of diesel cars with diesel particulate filters for Germany and Austria, because we have implemented and enforced the incentive system in the NOVA for environmental reasons. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next point: We are starting a new era in fuel policy in this country by 1. October: mandatory addition of biogenic fuels to fossil fuels. This too is an important step you have forgotten. And the Ecostrom Act is so successful that we will reach 7 percent ecostrom even before plan and also think about how we continue to pursue this important topic. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is a dangerous threat!]] Back to the EIA. With this amendment, with the redesign in these small parts of the EIA, we have given forward-looking answers without compromising the quality of the environment without shutting down citizens' participation, but with the result of implementing rapid, efficient procedures for important projects. And I can tell you: You can be calmed, the 2008 European Football Championship will be designed and implemented by me and colleague Schweitzer towards sustainable European Championship 2008. We are on the right path in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8132	The next item is the speech by Mr Mag. Schweitzer. Mr State Secretary, you have 6 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8164	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, I believe that what Mr Wittauer said is already remarkable, namely that the so-called environmental organizations were prepared yesterday to let things happen if they had been presented with a different formulation of this novel. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unimaginable!]] This shows that these environmental organisations must not, quite the contrary, raise the demand to really be the environmental conscience of Austria: With this proposed procedure, they have played out every credibility in this country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Secondly, Mrs Glawischnig: Minister Pröll mentioned it briefly. What you are proposing to us here as an example from Australia, we are doing this for a long time, with your colleague Monika Langthaler and with the long-standing Christian Nohel, who is implementing a sustainability concept for the 2008 European Football Championship. And I hope you trust your former colleague Langthaler that she has made a good concept here that we are implementing together with her. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, it was one of the few in the former Green Group, who knew about the importance of sports as a whole for Austria, recognized this and worked in this direction as well. They have obviously still not grasped the importance of sports for Austria as a whole. But for that, there are enough others who have understood how important the area of large international sporting events is for Austria. Austria has so far done very well with it. The Austrian economy has been very well driven, and many Austrian regions are now so good at it, because there were large sporting events in these regions, whether they were the Olympic Games in Innsbruck, whether they were the cycling championships in the Villach region. Whether there were the sliding races in Schladming – Schladming has flourished with the entire region after the sliding season! – whether it was the Swing Championships in St. Anton or whether it was the Nordic World Championship in the Ramsau: These regions have benefited enormously! And we want major sporting events to take place in Austria in the future, so that the regions can benefit the countries so that the federal government can benefit properly and jobs are created in addition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They complain of unemployment in Austria, which is, in any case, quite low in international comparison. It is true that we have a high level of employment, but we have too many unemployed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are “grassed”!]] But you and your preventers make sure that no more jobs can be created in all those areas! [[Contradict with the Greens.]] You have to say that clearly and clearly once. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have big projects, and we will implement them. There will be the World Championships in the near future, there will be the World Championships in Austria in the near future and finally the Europe Championships that will be organised in a sustainable way. And that all of this is possible in the appropriate time frame, I believe it will make very good progress in the construction of sports venues. Neither the speaker of the SPÖ nor you, Mrs Glavischnig, have been able to tell us exactly where this novel will lead to a deterioration. They have not said anything at all, I have been careful: no concrete approach where there is to be a deterioration – and there is no one! [[Calls to the Greens.]] In reality, it's quite different: There will be a case-by-case check by the authority, normally the state government. This authority will examine whether significant environmental impacts are expected – and this will be examined in accordance with the criteria of the European EIA Directive! And there is a six-week decision-making period. If yes, Mrs Glavischnig, if there are significant environmental impacts, there will be an environmental impact assessment. Only the decision-making period will be reduced to four months, and that is good. If the Authority finds that there is no significant environmental impact to be expected, no environmental impact assessment shall be carried out, the relevant administrative requirements shall be decisive for the approval of the procedure. No material law is changed – it is important that it is kept – no one! Whether it is about water protection, whether it is about air protection, whether it is about noise protection et cetera: These mating laws remain fully up-to-date! If a person has an objection to this finding, then everyone, as always, can object and make an appropriate input, again with a decision-making period of six weeks. Under the rule, colleague Glavischnig and colleague Krainer von der SPÖ – perhaps someone else can explain what you have tried to say, because you do not have the reason –: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] The legislation on materials will not be amended, that is, no evasion of environmental standards! There is a shortened authorisation procedure to be able to comply with international deadlines for large-scale projects, and that is a good thing. The cost of the procedure will be reduced. So under the rule: many improvements and no deterioration. Ladies and gentlemen! In the interest of the successful sports major event Austria, I welcome all these changes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8268	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl. 5 minutes speaking time. I will run out of the next four speakers just before the end. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8290	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mr State Secretary! [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: What has worsened?]] You can write the speeches for your own group, we write our own speeches! Leave this to us! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Wittauer, you have referred to home policy and labour market policy in the rural regions: You lock up district courts, you lock down post offices, now you come to barracks, you drive people out of their rural area, they drive them out of their homeland. – This is the home policy of the FPÖ and the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kopp; I do not know where he is now. The municipalities need this change in law, because all the procedures in which the communities were negotiating have been completed positively. So the communities are the last to need this change of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The present amendment to the EIA law is incomprehensible, undemocratic and a classic example of event law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The occasion: Schlottery of Mrs. Landeshuptmann, a Styrian election campaign and a failed project “Spielberg”. With this change of law, you believe that you can prevent a similar drop in the future from happening as she happened to Mrs. Klasnic in the Styria. And for that, as you can see, every means is right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Half a year ago, Federal Minister, did you still fully explain the success balance of the EIA – and now all of a sudden everything should be different?- Oh, my God! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: It will be even better with this reform!]] Now you will soon find a well-functioning law, which is welcomed, even demanded by the population. They disapprove of the involvement of committed people, of neighbouring people, of those affected, and you are igniting the site competition. This is really a deterioration, Mr State Secretary! If the competition and the location competition are startled and broken down for certain projects in the state governments or between the state governments, I do not know how this will go for some federal country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you have against competition?]] For the population in Spielberg and their health, however, nothing changes. You will not be able to improve this already disadvantaged region. Only one thing will be clear with this... – Mr Wittauer, please speak! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Your environmental policy can be seen when you place your large off-road vehicle on the lawn of the Parliament site. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is clear that the EIA has adopted itself from environmental policy, not only in Styria. Mr Umweltlandesrat Seininger wants to increase the limit values for fine dust pollution, and Mr ÖVP-Klubobmann Drexler wants to abolish environmental lawyers at all times. This is environmental policy!Unknown term type: "%s".? And that the Styrian Green Group – and I can't spare you this criticism – has almost apologised at yesterday's Landtags meeting for refusing this legislative amendment, which in my view is to preach water and drink wine. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Federal Minister, are now allowed to cook the Landtagswahl-Supperl for the Styria: One takes a well-functioning EIA law, a project “Spielberg”, a woman who is in a state-runner’s state-runner, who is in a state-runner’s state-runner, which is in crisis of war, mix the whole thing well and season it with constitutional illegality and EU illegality, a shot at democracy reduction and a price of clientele policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One lets the whole lukewarm boil and then serves it finely garnished with blue cut sheet as a missing environmental policy of the ÖVP. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was “great ”!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Federal Minister! The Styrian population has expressed its opinion on the head of the country. According to EStAG-Scandal, Semmering-basistunnel and Herberstein Castle, Mrs. Landeshauptmann has once again proved that she harms the Styria more than benefits, and she will finally be able to extinguish the Supperl herself on the election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8448	The next speaker was Mr Grillitsch. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8470	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Today, this debate shows that in reality we are living in an enormous dynamic of change, a very fast-paced time. Everything is getting bigger, everything becomes more incomprehensible – and there the differences between the individual political groups are getting bigger and bigger. We want to create jobs, secure employment and the economic location, and you want to protect something that is not at all available. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] You're still looking for the quail king. Keep looking at him! You won't find him, ladies and gentlemen. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That is why it is high time for us here in this House to assume responsibility for people in this country and to make laws in such a way that there can be investments in accordance with nature also in our habitat, in our economic area Austria. That is why I very much welcome this amendment, Mr Federal Minister, and thank you for the constant courage of this government to analyse and adapt. And that says one that comes from the eco-social market economy, which builds on three pillars, Mr. Cap: on the pillar of economy, on the pillar of ecology and on the pillar of socialism. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No, he's not coming!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Joschi Riegler was the last!]] The two pillars of ecology and social affairs only have a chance if the first pillar is properly secured. This is happening with this EIA-Novelle, where we simply use the opportunity to realize large-scale projects in Austria as well, with timely solutions that the policy offers. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Riegler would have said that differently!]] It is about location security, Mr Cap, that it is about jobs, and of course it is also about dealing with it in accordance with the EU, i.e. in accordance with EU law. We need these rapid procedures, we need these individual checks with this four-month period in order to be able to see these investment opportunities. That is why I do not understand the attitude of the opposition, because it normally tells you the sense of the house that we need this solution. It's about our future. This is the future of our regions. This is also about the future of my home region, the Upper Murtal, the Aichfeld-Murboden region, where you have held responsibility for decades and destroyed jobs, for example, with the collapse of the nationalized industry. We have regained new businesses in this region through the labor and work of people, where we have created jobs with investors. I'm telling you about the SPÖ: You are in truth repeaters, you are repeaters in the rejection of projects! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is unheard of!]] In the rejection of projects, history is repeated, Mr Gusenbauer! In 1995 they rejected the A1-Ring extension, which was opened after a short construction period in 1996, on which there was Formula 1 race and a corresponding utilization by 2003 and by which there was a corresponding added value for the region. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] 500 million schillings remained in the region by Formula One at the time! There was a year-round use of 250 million schilling annually, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And now you reject the expansion of the A1 ring again?- Oh, my God! [[Call the SPÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] History repeats itself. [[Abg. Grade: No, stick to the truth at least once, Fritz!]] History repeats itself, and people will perceive, colleague Gradwelt, who honestly means it to them and who does not. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is a strange fact that Mr Voves, together with Mr Androsch, comes to the region and says: We have replacement projects! [[Abg. Sburny: Do not sell people for stupid!]] – How does the replacement project look? – The honorary citizen of Fohnsdorf, Mr Androsch, takes off 360 jobs there, ladies and gentlemen. That is social democratic responsibility! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: The people in the region are disappointed by you. We have the answer: We are concerned with jobs, jobs and jobs, in line with nature, so that people there have employment, earn income, can make investments and the value added remains in the region, Mr Gusenbauer! This is our answer for uncertain people who have been abused by social democracy over generations there.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8637	Mr Grillitsch, you know that the word “renewal offenders” is not appropriate to the House, and I assume that you will take this word back! The next speaker was Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. There are also 5 minutes speaking time for them. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8661	Madam President. Dear Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! [[Continued calls to the SPÖ and calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I am aware of why the ÖVP has such a problem on this issue. It's already starting with Mr. Mag. Head that I don't see now – yes, yes! – is environmental spokesperson and, at the same time, the Secretary-General of the Economic Federation. Two hearts beat, oh, in my chest!, he'll think of it more often. After we have received this amendment - the third one that has been submitted within a very short period of time, and without need - we have found that the government parties, practically perceptible with the naked eye, are willing to fulfil the wishes of project operators and have no problem at all with the fact that neighbours and citizens' initiatives in the case-by-case examination process are not receiving a party position, although the Minister has repeatedly stressed that, if they are used for international competitions and are not built on a permanent basis, they can also be built in protected areas such as Natura 2000 or in Alpine areas, and that leisure and entertainment parks, sports stadiums, golf courses and those associated facilities are excluded, we have thus experienced special treatment. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true!]] The Constitutional Court's assessment of this will show itself. Minister Pröll likes to mention his policy again and again: Environmental policy with home mind. This “domestic mind ” will be pretty slowly suspected of me; this word has already been pleasing today. What kind of mind is that? As much understanding as a house has, or what are you supposed to understand? [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] He clearly believes that it is already a merit in this government to present an amendment that is in accordance with EU law. – Whether it is constitutional, we will still see, we have already determined. The Minister for the Environment calls the new amendment of the EIA-G a wise answer, but we do not know what question. On the question of the ÖVP colleagues from Styria, how can the environmental senate be eliminated with its annoying questions of excesses in the matter of dust pollution? Or such answers, as recently given to the competent Council of State in Graz, that, in order not to become a problem, one simply has to increase the limit value? [[Abg. May. Worm: What does that mean for health?]] Or the question from Carinthia, how can a stadium construction be carried out without any suggestions for improvement by the arrants and citizens' initiatives? – Do you think these questions, Mr Minister, should you say that we have a smart answer? I don't quite understand. We have long identified the environmental impact assessment – and it has been mentioned several times in the Environment Committee – as a process optimization instrument. They represent it as a prevention instrument, and they also represent people working in initiatives and NGOs as an obstacle. I think that's a lot of fun! These are people who come to us in their spare time and ask us for help, which Mr Wittauer fears! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Let's hold on: The ÖVP – apart from the FPÖ – has neither the power nor the potential to protect the environment and the people. We have an Environment Minister who cannot at any rate answer the key issues of the Environment Agency with this change of law – see Kyoto. And we have a government that – but only after the objections of the Green Group; we have demonstrated the European illegality of the project by means of an opinion of Professor of International Law Calliess, University of Göttingen – then it is proud that it is once again presenting a draft that is preoccupied by the fact that it is illegal to be EU law. That's not a merit, it's actually rather a witness of poverty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have already quoted it today, and I do not wish to underestimate this quote to the House. Albert Einstein already said: “The problems that exist in this world cannot be solved with the same ways of thinking they have created.”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8753	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. – Mr deputies, you too have a speaking time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8779	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Fleckl, your verbally violent “supply recipe” that you announced to us earlier, may be appropriate at the time of day – it is lunchtime, people are probably hungry – but I think it was more than depleted on the subject. As Mr Krainer here at this speaker's desk tried to collect party-political small money with the environment once again: Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced – and I believe there is a broad consensus here – that the environment is not being questioned here that environmental policy is not being questioned either, but that it is very clearly about this... – It is not about Carinthia, Mrs Colleague, even if Carinthia seems so important to you that you are constantly mentioning it. [[Abg. Residency: Carinthia!]] But if you like it so well, I'll make sure you get two VIP entry tickets for the football game. You will be able to convince yourself that this is a good event. I am convinced that this is a clear commitment to Austria's location, that this is a very clear commitment to securing jobs. And if Mr Kopf mentions that we need these jobs for major international events, that we need them for sport, that we need them for Spielberg, I will go one step further here. I'll go one step further and say: We will have to consider this for the entire economic location. We may also have to try in other areas to ensure that the site is not threatened. EIA testing is good. EIA testing is important. Confession on the environment – no question. But I am going so far as to say that the other businesses, the small and medium-sized enterprises, also those areas that have no chance, so to speak, of perhaps getting this shortened EIA procedure, which may not have a chance to find relief here, that they will have to have the chance to secure the site of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the environment and the economy must not be in conflict. What has been worked out by several previous speakers today, I believe, is not necessarily contrary. I believe that a well-functioning economy can very well take place in a functioning, intact environment, and must also take place, because in reality a well-functioning environment is one of the most important site decision-making criteria for Austria. An increasing number of companies – including international ones – choose the location Austria because the framework conditions are good here. And we are required by politics to shape the framework conditions in such a way that the businesses stay here as well. Therefore, once again quite clearly my appeal to ensure that there is a shortened procedure, that there is a simplified procedure, is a correct approach, is a step in the right direction. But I also expect our coalition partner to make it quite clear that we may also be carrying out an evaluation of the overall procedure, that we are looking very closely at where we may be able to re-adjust where we may be able to make sure that other structures are able to settle. With all the rights and participation of the citizens: Prevention policy in the form she mentioned to Mr Wittauer that the EIA procedure is being used to prevent jobs – I think that is the wrong approach. Finally, Mrs Glavischnig: I sat there today and listened very closely to you. I believe – and I also advise you – that environmental policy is really a concern to you. That may be, and that's a good thing. But if our environmental speaker stands here at this speaker's desk and tells people in plenary and television audiences his point of view, and you, Mrs Colleague, do and say: Mr Wittauer, if stupidity were to hurt, you would have to scream out loud all day!, I must say, my dear colleagues, dear Watchers on TV screens: Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, I believe that this statement has no place in this House and judges itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8838	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8860	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The principle question must be asked here: Who did this A1 project in Spielberg? – It was this chief of state Klasnic of the ÖVP in Styria. She has failed to do a lot of craftsmanship, and this has led us to be a repair workshop now. They use the Parliament here as a fastbox, as a repair workshop for this embarrassing failure of the head of state Klasnic in Styria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They want to repair the failure in Klagenfurt with a disassembly of the Austrian environmental constitution. It is also about the craftsman's failure, which in the award area is deep in a political swamp and here shows his qualitative inability to lead a country. You are also trying to legitimise this here in a fastbox, in a repair workshop here in Parliament, and that in retrospect! Mr Grillitsch, a short replica on your statements about your home country: It was the Social Democrats who set up this region in 1972. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: That's incredible!]] At the time, you established the ATB, the Bauknecht-Werke, you brought Siemens back there, you took a lot back there. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Inconceivable what you say!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Could be you don't know your own story. – The S & Ds started a construction initiative at the time. This region would no longer exist in the form it now exists. And do you know what you did? – You voted in favour of this last year when Minister of Finance Grasser requested the dissolution and sale of the development company Aichfeld-Murboden. This is actually the ruin of this region, and you voted in favour of it. Learn history! And, Mr. Zweytick, because you look like this [[Rejoicing]] It is common ground that this EIA legal change is also being made so that certain ÖVP clients can implement their golf course projects. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Vranitzky also plays golf!]] I ask you here: Is it true that you are planning a larger golf project in your vineyards, for which you also need this exemption? You have the opportunity to clarify this now. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Vranitzky also plays golf!]] It smells like client policy in the back and front, and that's actually the central point why we can't support it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this policy – there is no reason why you should make this change of law – you are systematically trying to undermine the environmental constitution. You are running democracy here, and you are running client policy here, and that is a point that we can't support at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Social Democrats see the environment as the core element of sustainability. We are serious about this, Mr Environment Minister, we are serious about sustainability. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: And we're alive them!]] . and you are trying here to undermine all these measures, which ensure an Austrian environmental constitution, with an incomprehensible carelessness. We do not have social democrats at our disposal!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8988	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9010	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I have to put a few things right, and I'll start with Mrs. Fleckl. I'm not the defender of the green-woman Lechner-Sonneck in Styria, but Mrs. Fleckl said that Mrs. Lechner-Sonneck was very excited yesterday at the Landtagssession. I'm allowed to hold: Yesterday was no Landtagssession in Styria! – So much for the truth. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] And then let's go. Mrs Glavischnig turns out here and says that the EIA will be abolished. - Also sausage! How to deal with the truth is completely sausage, the sage counts. And then Mr. Moser comes out here and says the SPÖ has furnitured up the Obersteiermark. I say something to you, Mr Moser: I am here in Parliament for a few years now, and always when it comes to disadvantaged regions, it is about regions where the Social Democrats have the absolute majority. You're supposed to be thinking about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] We're now talking about the SPÖ, we're talking about Spielberg, and I'm telling you the following: The fact that you are opposed today is only a consistent continuation of your policy regarding Austria's ring. You have boycotted the Austrian ring over years, you have wanted to prevent it over years. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser:... wallowed!]] You didn't succeed! You have now won a stage victory, you have now won a stage victory, and Mr. Voves in Styria continues politics against Austria's ring consistently. [[Abg. Gradwell: Who then applied for the notice of termination?]] He continues the socialist tradition up there consistently, which means: to prevent rather than building, which means: to block instead of creating jobs, which means: to act badly rather than to act as an initiative. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who then requested the demolition?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you stand on the brake with both legs, you don't need a racetrack. That's clear to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Who then applied for the notice of termination?]] But I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: We will build the ring, whether you want it or not, and we will enforce in Spielberg against the Voves-SPÖ. [[Abg. Well, who has let him tear off, Mr. Missethon?]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Why don't you give a reply? Give an answer to this question!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is the purpose of this law? – That the country gets a lot of decision-making power again in the environmental process. [[Abg. Grade: Stay with the truth and give an answer!]] That is the only objective of this law, and I stand for this law, because I believe it is necessary that these things be regulated in this way. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9187	The amendment tabled by Mr Missethon is sufficiently supported, duly tabled, and is therefore also under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9214	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! – The Secretary of State has already gone for lunch. – Ladies and gentlemen! Valuable listeners at the gallery! More clearly than my pre- speaker would have no one Your slam in the environmental impact assessment can show: almost in the last minute before the vote a further amendment, a further derogation! I mean, that's a clear sign that you're trying to undermine the compact system of environmental impact assessment and, in some cases, even going back to a standard that has long been believed to be over. They say again and again: My goodness, all this is just about sports! – Yes, I, too, felt it necessary here in this Parliament to do a lot of valuable things for sport, but that the procedures of the citizens involved are completely over, that is another chapter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is about really pursuing sports events offensively, making Austria a hub for international competitions, so that we can offer a scene for both sport and economic performance, but please everything only within the framework of a democratically developed culture, which leads to environmental compatibility. There is no better example than the stadium situation in Carinthia. The European Championship is to take place and can take place there, but the one who really does want to put this project into the sand – in the truest sense of the word – is the head of the state, because he pummels around in the award and because there are the delays. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] And now the environmental legislation is to be used to eliminate these errors and somehow compensate for them in procurement procedures, so to speak, just because there is a local company to get to the train instead of putting an end to the call for tender on a legal basis! You make this clear to someone else, but you cannot explain to me that environmental policy is so important that we should therefore make an EIA amendment! On this other matter, namely Spielberg: typical occasion legislation! The Environmental Impact Assessment Act is to be amended because a Styrian State Authority was not able – or not willing to – to handle a project properly. That's just the reason! And because of this plague, because of this illegal procedure of a state authority, a federal law is now to be amended. That's pure occasion legislation! Pure occasion legislation! I remember when the Committee on Justice discussed possible measures in connection with the WEB scandal in Salzburg. Since the complainants, who were harmed by this, were finally entitled to the compensation scheme, there was a debate on damages in the committee, in which you thought by the ÖVP that it was not possible to legislate on the occasion that you were against any kind of event! And that, please, it was about the wealth of hundreds, even thousands of people who used money there. But now a single state government authority is suffocating – and a federal law needs to be changed! Please take an example, take a look at where environmental impact assessments are carried out properly in large-scale procedures! Look at Linz! Look at the voestalpine! Look at an environmental councillor Rudi Anschober! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In fact, it has managed to carry out a huge industrial project – the largest industrial project in the post-war history of Austria – in accordance with the citizens' initiative in a manner that is flawless and legal. That, I say, is an achievement, and precisely for this we have the EIA- Law – and this should remain so, for the benefit of the location, for the benefit of the citizens and also for the benefit of the economy in Austria, for: Compressed procedures serve the economy as well as the people interested in sports. Their pussies, however, prevent that. And because of your coup, we do not yet amend a federal law that has proved itself! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To conclude: Mr President, Khol likes to talk about the "citizen society". For me, this is really mockery and pangs, if a president, an important representative of a large party, continues to lead the “citizen society” in the mouth, but then actually promotes and promotes laws, through which citizens’ rights, neighbouring rights, so to speak, the core, the heart of a civil society, are trampled with feet! That is really reprehensible, contradictory and repudiating from our side! That is why we are in favour of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act being preserved in the existing, proven form, that the accelerated procedure is being implemented and that it cannot be rehearsed further, as happened in the Styria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9304	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9326	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot, almost everything, but perhaps not by all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Only the angle of view are, as I could and can see, very different. I expressly say: Citizens' rights are not circumcised with this novel. The concerns of the population are, of course, taken seriously in the future! If I hear the environmental spokesperson of the SPÖ, who is standing here at this speaker's desk, and says that it would be time to consider whether, in the course or as an effect of this novel, it is possible to build the third runway in Schwechat, I must say: I don't think he doesn't know that's total nonsense. He claims that this nonsense is a mistake, that the people are completely unaware of it, and that I think is objectionable! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] In this discussion, terms are constantly being used incorrectly, terms – as you say – are used incorrectly. It is spoken of as major projects that are supposed to pass through the environmental impact assessment with this novelle – whatever – are meant to be. That is wrong in two ways. Firstly, of course, major projects include infrastructure projects, and no one wants to be implemented without EIA. Of course, the environmental impact assessment remains here fully. Secondly, there is no ‘pass-by’, rather there should be a possibility of a shortened procedure, a single test, where there is a question of the establishment of sports facilities in connection with international major events or also of the reconstruction and adaptation of existing race routes, the possibility of a reduced procedure, of a single test, and of which I expressly consider that standard values, limits in the environmental field are by no means shifted to the detriment of the environment. They're still intact. Only the procedural law will be amended in such a way that a delay until prevention is stopped. Austria, as I mean, has a long tradition as an event country for international sporting events, with great success, which, as I mean, ladies and gentlemen, should remain this way in the future. In particular, I also mention the economic and labour market aspects which play an essential role here. I find it striking that this is a time and again from deterioration to the alleged abolition of the environmental impact assessment. That's not right! The Greens, however, have failed to make the point that these deteriorations or alleged deteriorations should be justified. They have just put it in the room in general and claim that everything is getting worse, the citizens' talk was no longer given, the environment is suffering and, and, what! [[Abg. May. Kogler: The head of state is a deterioration per se!]] Mr Moser said that this amendment would seriously eliminate the EIA – I think you have said – from a bad point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Reduced! Worse!]] However, you may not have understood and understood the content of this amendment, although it has been presented. I do not believe that you should, or do not wish, give up this amendment, because it is precisely that the authority, the state government, has to carry out a determination procedure, whether there are adverse effects on the environment or not. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... not capable... Styria has shown!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I think it is necessary to make an objective differentiation, first of all with regard to international events: It is a matter of ensuring that, in the event of major sporting events, agreements with international organisations such as Olympic Games or European Championships, which are of particular interest to the public, can be made in a timely manner to complete the necessary facilities. Secondly, I believe that the new situation has been taken into account in the reconstruction of race routes that have already existed and that the previous stock has reduced the impact of the changes than a complete new direction. I think that's worth taking note of. As I believe, there will also be a corresponding decree from the Federal Environment Minister for the execution of the countries. – Thank you for your valued attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9407	The next item is Mr Heinzl's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9428	Madam President. High house! Mr Pröll! From the point of view of social democracy, the right path in environmental law is a different one from the one you and your ÖVP are taking. We are convinced – and this has already been said several times by the speakers of the Social Democracy – that large projects simply have to be subject to an environmental impact assessment, although we can certainly talk about whether the effort of project promoters in relation to management can be limited by appropriate measures. I would just like to give you one example: It is not to be seen that in Austria there are nine different standards on issues such as noise protection technology, in each federal state another! In my opinion, this can be avoided by an Austrian-wide harmonisation. In contrast to most other approval procedures, the EIA law has the huge advantage that for a large project only a single concentrated authorisation procedure should be carried out. But this one procedure must also be carried out very precisely! A good example, as I believe, of the disassembly of the EIA by Black and Blue is also the re-establishment of the project-specific thresholds, from which an EIA must be implemented. I have just taken out two cases that seem particularly important to me. Case No 1 is the construction of wind turbines. – Wind power is a renewable energy whose benefits have many positive effects. From climate policy, the use of wind power is no longer to be thought away. There were no thresholds and no EIA obligations for wind turbines before 2000 because this technology was still in its infancy in the mid-1990s, and at the time, pliablely expressed, only “toys” were built at best. In the meantime, however, wind power plants are so large that they have a strong influence on their environment and quality of life. However, the thresholds introduced in 2000 are far too high for wind turbines, and the citizens concerned are largely excluded from the procedure. Therefore, it is necessary that before the construction of wind farms their impact on man and the environment is examined very closely and that a consensus is found on the construction of the wind farms! Case No 2 concerns the establishment of livestock holdings. – Mr Minister, as you know, before the Blue-Black Coalition came into office, there were thresholds for these. However, these values were either increased by the black and blue Federal Government or only apparently reduced by the absence of the summary scheme for the individual thresholds. Especially in rural areas with an already high density of livestock farms, the reasonable burden on the population of air emissions and immissions is increasingly being exceeded. I would also ask you, Mr Minister, to reduce the thresholds to the 1999 level. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It is a fact – and there can be so much discussion about it that it can still be so beautiful – that the EIA-Novelle significantly deteriorates the approval criteria and citizens' participation! They are setting a further point in the reduction of democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9465	The next speaker was Mr Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9491	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that, in the course of this debate on the EIA Act, some EIA members and also the Federal Minister remember that they were in government responsibility even before 2000: On the one hand, they praised the EIA law, on the other hand, it was also meant that it was not a coincidence that we were at the forefront of environmental issues, but for 20 years the EIA has been putting the Environment Ministers! – 20 years are not, but after all, since 1987. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] What this discussion really is about is that something is being rehabilitated, which should not be rehabilitated in this form. The previous speakers have already pointed out: It is clear that in a concrete procedure something has been ‘mortemized’, and a change of law is to be implemented at the last moment, which will harm the EIA and ultimately the future process, because it will, of course, open a lock what we do not want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the Federal Minister repeatedly claims that nothing has changed anyway, I wonder why we need this amendment, for the third, fourth or fifth time! This is a contradiction! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So: Although one wants to change something over and over again, every time one changes, it explains that nothing changes. A few of us would like to see something changing very well! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is massive technical rejection from areas such as the Vorarlberg Nature Protection Procuratorship or the Environmental Lawyers in the other federal states. I do not want to review their political membership here, but the fact is that they have found that this amendment is EU-absorbing and illegal, although in the last version of the proposal they are trying to do – to do so! – To achieve EU conformity, it remains non-EU in parts. Furthermore, the present draft means a drastic deterioration of the EIA throughout Austria, and it is also – which has already been clearly said – an unfortunate case of an evental legislation. That did not determine the opposition, was found by the environmental lawyers of the individual federal states! And that is quite obvious! The second major project one has in mind is the Klagenfurt Stadium. Do you know when the European Championship is known to take place in Austria? - Since 2001! And now, in 2005, we need to reorganise something that could have been handled in a normal procedure since 2001, unless other circumstances prevented us from dealing with the procedure in a decent manner. Finally, I would like to say: Should it be established in the individual authorisation procedure that this will be shifted from the objective level to the political level, then, ladies and gentlemen, of course, this does not mean a return of environmental rights to countries, but in reality political choices that are not in the interests of the environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9556	The next speaker was Mr Schopf. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9582	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some embarrassing pans have already happened when last year's decision was taken. Among other things, it has been forgotten that the environmental senate law is necessary for formal reasons. This means that, while the old procedures can be negotiated before the existing Senate, no new ones can be negotiated. It also means that no renomination of members of the Environmental Senate is possible. Even in the UVP law itself, a flaw was made, a date was set at one year too early. It is therefore necessary today to speedily repair these miscarriages. These mistakes will teach us the future. We thought that the Minister for the Environment was in a position to make formal correct submissions to Parliament. – Mr Minister, we take note of the following: Unfortunately, this is not the case! In terms of content, too, the Minister of the Environment and his ÖVP and the Freeman also shone through incompetence. [[Oh, call on ODP MPs.]] The idea of going through certain large-scale projects of a case-by-case examination is unprofessional occasion legislation and is therefore strictly rejected by the sides of social democracy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Molterer and Wittauer.]] Mr Wittauer, with the proposed EIA-Novelle, a scandalous watering of the environmental standard is carried out and a one-sided client policy is being pursued! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] This is also totally unacceptable, Mr Wittauer, the environmental impact assessment has proved itself in recent years. It has proved itself positively in about 60 procedures in this regard, and we therefore see no need for an amendment. We will therefore reject the amendment today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9639	The next item is the speech by Mr Steier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9661	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two weeks of ongoing protests on the controversial EIA novelle led the government parties to withdraw their request to amend the EIA law, but only to replace it with a “light version”. The government parties believe that they have found a simplified way to assess the environmental impact of large-scale projects: A quick procedure for internationally agreed projects, sports venues, test routes and airport expansion will be foreseen in the future. The federal states should decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether an environmental impact assessment should be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, however, that this planned rapid procedure is aimed precisely at those large-scale projects that have already been planned for a tailor-made event legislation, namely Spielberg and the Stadium in Klagenfurt. And especially the stadium building in Klagenfurt – as we all heard – is in discussion or the occasion for this change of the EIA. The fact is that all major projects, including stadium buildings, have been approved in Germany through an environmental impact assessment procedure. It is only with us that, although we know since 2001, that the EM 2008 is being set up here, it is not possible to deal with a normal EIA procedure for a normal stadium. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who says that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard again today that the SPÖ should be responsible for the fact that certain projects cannot be implemented. – We absolutely reject this event legislation, which is launched in the execution here! We are for the environment and for the citizens in this process. [[Abg. Neudeck: How are you supposed to do this if you are against it?]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9716	The next speaker is Mrs Scharer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9738	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I come from the Europe Sports Region, from the country of Salzburg. I also think it is desirable, of course, that major sporting events should be held, and I also give you the right that there should not be any disadvantages or handicaps in a region in the international competition for competitions for large sports events. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we believe that it is essential that environmental impacts are assessed in advance and that preventive measures are put in place with the involvement of the interests of citizens and citizens. But in the future it's just like this... – Mr Wittauer, no one listens to you anymore! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Listen Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come – In the future, it will be possible for anyone to decide on large projects, such as Schipist extensions or innovations, without taking into account the interests of citizens and neighbouring people in advance. [[Abg. Ellwall: That's completely wrong!]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is clearly a disassembly of environmental interests, but above all the interests of citizens and citizens! We do not want to do that, we do not agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It can't be that in a community, for example, when it comes to the establishment of shopping centres, an EIA is required, while in the case of Schipist constructions, for example, in glacier ski regions for major events, political decisions of the respective national governments may be waived! In addition, open It is also, of course, competition between countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] This change of law makes the project not clearer and not easier to plan, but more difficult and difficult to estimate for those interested and investors in the major events. Ladies and gentlemen! It is only because of the fact that blustery EIA procedures prevented projects in recent times that there is no reason to make changes to an existing, affordable and good EIA law in the form of an event law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9796	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9823	Madam President. Federal Minister! – The Secretary of State is not here now or temporarily. – It’s about the usual problem: Amendments will be tabled in night and fog actions, the last one quarter of an hour ago. Mr. Missethon! You have, I think, made the request. The only serious thing you said in this context was a Freud’s promise: In fact, you said “environmental testing. ” – You wouldn’t have been able to express it better! But that was also the best thing about the whole contribution and this project here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I will now address what the Minister and the Secretary of State have said, because they have felt called to take the floor here in a "environmental availability" initiative. Federal Minister! They're talking about house-minding. Do you know what I'm saying? – The only thing that has to do with house and mind here is that in the logic you presented here today, the mind has been locked in house arrest. And that's really tragic from my point of view – that's tragic! – for an Environment Minister! Some of us would like us to call you “Federal Minister wherever possible, best for environmental availability”. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We could then negotiate a corresponding ministerial amendment law. In this respect, Parliamentary Missethon may also find itself in favour of an own-initiative proposal in the House – including amendments. Federal Minister! If you always ask: Where is the deterioration that we recognize?, then I can tell you: If a state government such as the Styrian or a country's main woman, like the Styrian, comes into competence in this context, then this can be seen with a free eye and per se as a deterioration! You've seen how they used to drive! It's really a special class damage maximization program if we make these people responsible for anything! They've proved it already! – I don’t know why you always ask us, ask yourself what’s going on in your party! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A state government may decide whether or not to: That's what I understood. And if that has happened, the citizens' initiative rights are outside! You're outside from this point on, and there's no appeal at all! Now I tell you that the procedure must also have something to do with the content. It is not the worst if citizens' initiatives are involved. And usually comes when you make it hot – we've heard it, keyword: Upper Austria – something that has also been done, and it has been one of the biggest industrial policy successes – including environmental impact assessment. But maybe learning. You also have to do this. If, as in this case, the head of state or a head of state is responsible, I say: Good night! – There is then a procedure which is no longer bundled in this way. It doesn't help if you keep saying that the mating laws are still in place next to each other! The environmental impact assessment creates an additional benefit! It creates an additional benefit because it is not considered in isolation, what goes into the air and what goes into the water. And questions such as transport concepts are not at all relevant. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Do you know what the Styrian authority has done to the Spielberg transport concept? – It simply assumed that each car will be over four people and that in the case of major events it will not be so many cars. – That was the transport concept! Not a word about public transport, nothing! But it is the idea of your authority that the Formula 1 fans will celebrate, to five, perhaps even to six will come in a car. That's the idea of your authority that you're so praising here! And then the others are supposed to be to blame! – I really think that this scapegoat drive is dangerous, too, as one says so beautifully. This is really bad style, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! We certainly do not like this in this form! This brings me to the temporarily absent Mr. State Secretary, who entitles us to France and free, and I quote literally: You didn't get it! You didn't get the sport meaning! – No, we didn’t get it, so we are! So far has it come back that it is so easy to allow this, just because it is said that an environmentally sound EURO, which is being advertised, could gain something if the stadium projects were to be subject to an environmental impact assessment! - No! Not there is the problem, here is the problem: You didn't get it! I'm telling you, as far as the meaning of sports is concerned: If you want to remind us that this EURO is at risk, I would like to draw your attention to a few points that should not be mentioned. In fact, it is the insurmountable political summary in Carinthia, which threatens this project, but certainly not the idea of a good environmental impact assessment. If you want to clear up what I say here, then tonight you will agree to the committee of inquiry which is being requested! – It is rightly spoken of as an influence and threat, bribery, agreement with bidders and confidential disclosure of documents in a secret procurement procedure. These are the problems we have with the stadium, but not the environmental problem that you want to reinvent now and thus to warm up some political cultural struggle that we have actually – I believe – left behind together! It is reserved for you to open this box again and jump to the other side. I don't understand that at all, it's illogical. In fact, this can only be explained with the white panic before the Styrian country election. Otherwise, I cannot find any explanation in this context! Mr Federal Minister, you mention the NoVA, you mention the fine dust problem et cetera. Do you know what's going on in the much famous Styria in this context? The idea of the Environment Council is: Double the fine dust limit values, otherwise we will not get the problem under control. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] The environmental lawyer is supposed to be abolished. – These are your alliance partners, and you're on us! Once you order yourself internally, that will do you well! But, as I said, Who knows how long you can use the title “Environmental Minister” now? This nova story is also an example of how you can, in fact, go beyond the problems. There is a minimum change in the standard consumption levy, but those who would really need it, namely the trucks, are franc and free. The incentive effect of this tax change is minimal, and you stand here and announce it as a great success! It just doesn't fit in! In retrospect, I find that our request for distrust was more than legitimate. We said at the time that he was entitled, I now have the impression that he is more than right. You were so sorry at the time. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who lamented?]] Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! You know very well that you yourself, but also your group, tend to regret it, but then you do it to the others. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Let me conclude by saying: It wasn't a good thing how you put this here. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That wasn't a good speech!]] They will have to answer for this once again when this will be examined at EU level. The Styrian elections will be over, the problem will remain. In that case, however, we will not let ourselves be hanged to be a causer, but refer the whole thing back to the recipient.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9921	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 827 of the supplements. Mr Wittauer, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment. Since there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt taking account of the proposed amendment. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 827 of the Supplements, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Wittauer, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:44:15]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 512/A (E) by Dr Eva Glawischnig, Karlheinz Kopf, Klaus Wittauer, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on the position of Austria in relation to the protection of whales and dolphins at the conferences of the Contracting States of the International Convention on the Regulation of Whales (ICRW) and in other bodies (826, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9991	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Sieber is the first to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10024	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Today, we are dealing with the happily joint motion for a resolution 512 on the protection of whales and dolphins. Each of us knows the cruel images of whaling from the media: Whales come with state-of-the-art technology – even with satellite support! - hunted. Seven out of 13 large whale species are threatened by extinction, and of the so-called northern capers there are estimated to be only 500 animals. The Walfang moratorium, adopted in 1986, was an important step towards whale and dolphin protection. But still more than 1,000 whales are killed each year. Since the entry into force of the moratorium, more than 21,500 whales have been killed, not to mention by-catch in fisheries. In the huge networks, about 30 000 whales and dolphins are caught each year. Although commercial whaling is prohibited, the moratorium has numerous loopholes. For example, whales may be hunted and killed for scientific purposes, but they may be sold by up to €300 per kilogram. Obviously, this is a very lucrative business. Especially in Japan, hundreds of whales are killed under this cover out of profit and, therefore, does not seem to be in breach of the agreement. Even in the protected area around the Antarctic, Japan may waltz. Japan is supported by Iceland, Russia, China, South Korea and small developing countries and partly by Denmark. Norway has not signed the moratorium at all. Some of these countries have announced a strong desire to expand scientific whaling, whatever that may be. More and more states are promoting the resumption of commercial whaling. It is particularly worrying that Japan is trying to achieve the necessary three-quarters majority through the purchase of votes in the context of development aid, which would once again pave the way for commercial whaling. – This is a disaster in view of the shrinking number of whales! Therefore, secret votes at the conferences of the Commission on whaling must be prevented in order to see who voted like, and above all why. I hope for the future that more protected areas will be set up in addition to the previously existing ones. So far, this has failed in the absence of a two-thirds majority, and this will probably not change at the next session. To date, Austria has supported all resolutions condemning scientific whaling, and it is important that our country continues to face public vehemently against whaling. It is a shame that we have brought these greatest living beings on earth to the brink of extinction! Some species have been lost forever. The next meeting of the Commission will take place this June. Austria must help to ensure that the IWC remains a whale protection commission and to prevent it from coming to an association of whalers. Ladies and gentlemen! For many of us, however, the commitment of young people to this issue is a special incentive to engage in this field. In Vorarlberg, too, we have a young man with “Bearfood” Bernhard Bechter, who is particularly committed to this topic. He's with a Bicycle with trailer in whale across Europe to convince people that countermeasures are to be taken here. This young man is then ill with cancer, has also faced this challenge, and thank God for defeating the cancer! Shortly thereafter, he got back on the bike to continue fighting for the whales. I believe that the action of such young people should be an incentive for us, and I am pleased that we will decide on this proposal together. – Thank you for this willingness!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10086	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10107	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Marine mammals live in that larger part of the earth, which is covered with water and about which we know less than about the entire universe. However, it is certain that maintaining the ecological balance of whales and dolphins plays a key role, that is to say, also for the human ecosystem and for long-term survival for the human being on this planet. Of course, we will support this important request, not a question at all, and I think that a concrete application of the intention of this request will then be made in the agenda item 12 of today's sitting, which concerns Austria's accession to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife. The key word “whoever has the pain is a whale” must not become anyone there, that is, I think, very important. This agreement, which I have referred to, dates back to 1979. We can only join him now because we only now have a federal uniform animal welfare law. This Convention provides, inter alia, for the protection of marine mammals. But there is also the problem that my previous speaker has already raised, that the catch of whales and dolphins is possible for science or for the protection of science, and so one can avoid the prohibition of fishing. We know the problem with Japan and Iceland, which operate commercial whaling and pretend to be more scientific. If we, as Austrians, now join this agreement, I expect the representatives of Austria in this body to work to ensure that commercial whaling is prohibited under the protection of science. It can't be anymore! It can only happen in the future that we protect marine mammals, that we use this to promote an intact ecosystem and maintain the environment as a natural laboratory of humanity with a sustainable stock to quote Friedrich Engels. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10144	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Chief. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10179	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's subject is not a controversial one, but thanks to God, there is a common understanding here in the House. For a long time, I have also been concerned that Austria will be active within the Whaling Commission and will also promote the fact that those three countries that are still in charge of whaling are not gradually getting the upper hand there by multiplying the supporters of whaling. If you look at the meeting at the door, you can't forget that Japan, Norway and Iceland are still trying to bring votes and support for the Pro-Walfang-Lobby. It is therefore particularly important that those countries that stand for a high environmental standard and for the rescue of whales also act as lobbyists for whale protection. It cannot be overlooked that the whale stocks are still at risk in large areas, and it cannot be overlooked that the advocates of whale protection have experienced a severe setback because the South Atlantic protection zones could no longer be realized. The North Pacific protection zones could only be saved with tiredness and need. Those who know how diverse the dangers to whales are also know that this issue cannot be taken seriously enough if we really want to take the ecology and conservation of species seriously in our oceans. Bycatch is one of the biggest problems for the small whale species. The prevention of by-catch does not take place. Research in this area has shown clearly and clearly that the appropriate network equipment could significantly reduce by-catch of small whales, dolphins and others. Nevertheless, nothing happens in this area for economic reasons. Those who have seen the whaling fleets of North Korea or Japan on the world seas can only be able to make us strong internationally for the whale protection. I can therefore tell my group that we will support this draft and personally that I will do everything and will continue to work internationally to represent whale protection as a serious concern of the Republic of Austria. For it is not five minutes ago, but it is twelve, and we must be careful that the whale protection and the whale protection commission do not fall into the hands of the whalers. In my view, therefore, this request must be supported unconditionally.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10212	The next item is Mrs Dr Glawischnig's speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10234	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. If you look at the pictures of whaling and look at it on a computer basis, on an economic basis, then it is somehow incomprehensible why whale fishing is still being carried out in the countries of Iceland or Japan, especially because these countries are increasingly relying on “whale watching” in recent years, i.e. the use of wealth to have this kind in their waters to stimulate tourism. The revenue resulting from this economic development now exceeds by ten times the income achieved even in the best time of whaling by killing. So you wonder what really is the reason. If you discuss in these countries, you can't do that on the basis that it's something unethical when you throw the whales into the body – which is almost unbearable for us on television – but then you have to do it on an economic basis. This is the case in some countries. Especially in Iceland, which has again begun to shoot over 30 Minky Whales, i.e. dwarf whales, under the cover of “scientific whaling”, there is a very intense discussion about why this is still being done, although the income, i.e. the economic wealth of this whale killing, does not reach even 3 or 4 percent of the “whale watching” and thus the entire range of “whale watching” tours is now at risk. I have already said this in committee: Especially the whales, which are, as it were, cooperative, curious who want to enter into contact with people, with watching ships, are those who are first caught under this supposedly scientific killing programme. As far as the “scientist” is concerned, it is about finding out how the whale stocks affect the fish population. But that is, as has already been proved, a proposed reason. It is therefore all the better that Austria has a very good, balanced and hard position for this whale commission. That's very important. Over the last few months, it has also begun such a thing as the purchase of votes by the whaling nations against developing countries by trying to bind money to a certain voting behaviour in the whaling commission, which is absolutely unacceptable. It is therefore important that a country like Austria with a very hard position, with a good position there and also represents it. The proposal is also remarkable in a second point, and I would also like to say that. As a rule, it is: If an initiative comes from an opposition party, there are usually two or three different ways to deal with it. One is rejection, which is a fair procedure. The other is a delay on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day; if one of the contents is half sympathetic anyway and it would be embarrassing to reject this, then it is usually postponed. Then there is a third variant, which is also very popular: that you make an application that is quite similar or almost word-identical, and bring it in as a government party. In this case, it was different, and I also want to say that this is okay. No one falls a sack out of the crown, once one leaves a request that actually comes from the opposition as a request of the opposition, to which the government fractions join, as it has been this time. I would also like to thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am particularly grateful to the dedicated officials in the Ministry of the Environment, who have been representing this position in the whaling commission for many years and are already doing a lot of important work in advance.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10285	The next speaker is Mrs Pfeiffer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10306	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to suggest that I too am pleased that it is on this four-party request for the protection of whales and dolphins. It's coming. The application reports on the excessive whale hunt, which has brought almost all whale species to the brink of extinction. In both Japan and Norway, whale meat is offered and sold as an expensive delicacy. This is, of course, a great incentive for hunting these animals. When you see the pictures of killing whales – and even worse are the killings of dolphins – how the animals get up in the death struggle to bleeding out: There can be no talk of human killing at all here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So here you have to act in the sense of animal welfare. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned today: Whales are the world's largest mammals, and we humans are responsible for the threat of extinction of these animals. For centuries whale fishing was a big business, and only in the mid-70s did resistance to this thoughtless exploitation of the seas. We must therefore be concerned about the protection of biodiversity, the maintenance of the ecological process and the living systems. Ladies and gentlemen! This biodiversity offers an invaluable genetic reservoir, which is essential for medical, biological, agricultural and scientific progress. Nature is threatened in this regard, so it is our duty to act. My group will therefore be happy to vote in favour of this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10352	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 826 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 89.) [[14:01:21]] 5. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (794 e.g._Other Organiser ==References====External links== Driver's license law Novelle) and the road traffic regulations are amended (817 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10398	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10428	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the subject myself, I would like to put something right. In today's daily newspapers, there are interventions by Minister Gorbach, in which he says: Transport Minister Gorbach worked with the Transport Pre- The European Parliament, the Verkehrsclubs, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers and so on, after more than ten years, the system of priority. I must say this correctly that we did not develop a system of priority with him, but were very welcome – at one time you were there, Mr State Secretary, once the Minister was there, in different compositions – and all the proposals we made were not, of course, incorporated into this law. That is why we have not worked out something together, but here we are only supposed to have done so. So that's right at the beginning. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The variant of a point leader's license decided on by the Government Council in the Council of Ministers is full of contradictions, so we cannot be in favour either. The fact that in addition to the existing eight driver's license withdrawal offences, which are not part of the pre-mark system, another 13 offences are added as a pre-respective offence, a completely inconspicuous system is created for the driver, for the driver or motorcyclist, and in many points also unjust system. In fact, when it comes to withdrawal offences, which are drastic alcoholizations, speedy driving, careless danger to other road users, driving against the direction of the road and so on, no prefaces are made, yes, even worse: The withdrawal will remove registered entries in the driver's licence register again! That is, if one has already registered a preface, then commits a serious alcohol offence and is deprived of the driver's license, the point for the previous offence will be deleted – and the preface is gone again. This is not systematic at all, if you still know that only in 2003 the 18-25-year-old drivers had more than 45 percent of the accidents under alcohol influence. That is to say, we should have focused much more on alcohol and fast driving in this concept and should not say that alcohol and fast driving should be subject to the old rules, and in addition we would have to construct a sort of pre-remark system, so that the remaining offences or those inside these 13 points should now be measured accordingly. Other unexplained problems also concern the so-called measures to be put in place during the second change in the priority system. These will result in massive additional money expenditure for the driver's licence owners, and at the same time it is not clear how targeted measures are developed. This part, for example, is now to be reserved for a regulation and is therefore deprived of the necessary political discussion. Just one example: If someone doesn't have a child seat properly mounted, got a point for it, and gets another point, there's a measure. This measure can be a first-aid course instead of saying: With this measure he should also learn specifically how to properly mount child seats. These are things that we needed and that we didn't even happen here. In addition, there is also a high administrative cost with less money, as we have heard today from the budget, which this Federal Government could have made available for more executives on the road and improved controls. I also have documents from automobile clubs that mean: If today's laws were to be monitored accordingly by transport politicians, then the whole system would not be needed. It does not use a better system if it is still not monitored. That is why we have absolutely no intention of participating in these things, in a system that, for example, includes foreign drivers and drivers who race through Austria; they can continue to drive through Austria as they want. Of this system, if at all, only Austrian citizens are affected by a very complex system, a very expensive system, a complicated system. It has always been said that the driver should have as simple traffic rules as possible so that he knows how to behave in order to avoid accidents. The more complicated we make the laws, the less the driver knows, and so he cannot avoid accidents. It is essentially a bad compromise, which the ÖVP has negotiated with FPÖ here. Mr Miedl – because he looks at me like this – has even said in committee: If we are reasonable, we are trying to take a step. – Okay, one step you can do, you’ll do it today, and that’s still worth improving. I believe that we would have had the opportunity to make a draft which is not worthy of improvement, but common, good. Then we would also like to agree with this draft.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10510	Mr Miedl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10531	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder, of course everything can be optimized, of course you can see everything from another side. In principle, I say to you: I am grateful to the SPÖ Group and to you, Mr Eder, but also to the Greens, because your cooperation was nevertheless relatively constructive. I accept it as a democratic that you were still against it, but it was a constructive work, and I have realized that the issue of road safety is quite something that you are all interested in. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have an extremely big problem: About 900 people die on the street in the year. 900 people – this is a middle village in Austria that dies every year! The situation is not new, it has developed. That means something's been going on. Other states around Austria, on the other hand, had a different development than we have seen. We have now said that we want to explain the cause. We want to know why this is so: What's going on? What's behind that? – We have found in this cause research that it is usually the 16-25-year-old men who are mainly victims or perpetrators of a traffic accident. When Minister Gorbach announced on television about a year and a half ago that he wanted to do something, he had us relatively quickly as a partner on this question because we soon knew what we did not want. After all, we do not want to create a driving licence system based on the model of Germany – Flensburger System – according to which everything, so to speak, herb and beet, enters the system and the handlebar itself has no way of discriminating. We wanted to create a system that is pedagogical. We've dealt with many educators and traffic experts and we've come up with the fact that hardly anyone is talking to the main risk group. The parent generation has become speechless to their children. There's no such talk about making a start on danger. Youths at risk then faced if it is already too late when “the pear’s already one’s skin” is. We want to do something that works before. That is why we have said that we want to act in a pedagogical way, and we have established three principles: First of all, we have said that we want to urge young people or road users – not only young people but also young people – to do so. In other words, if the operator commits one of these 13 offences, the authority goes here and gives him the hint – to the difference from earlier, there was only the penalty, now there is the warning to the penalty –: Dear traffic participants, if you attack again within two years because of a crime of these 13, then you will have to expect consequences. Therefore also the second pedagogical principle: teaching, schooling, balancing deficits. We are looking for changes in behaviour. For the first time, the State waives fines and invests in behavioural measures of the transport operator. There's never been that before. The Germans are now looking at Austria with Argusaugen and are very excited about how we will implement this. And thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the punishment comes. That's part of it. Punishment is also part of a consistent procedure. If a person attacks three times within two years for such a crime, the driver's license will be withdrawn for at least three months. Ladies and gentlemen! Now you can say we want another system, we can say that one or another is defective or bad. The fact is that the ÖVP with Minister Gorbach has for the first time succeeded in actually setting a milestone here, addressing the subjective behaviour of the road user to want to change something there. In two years we may say there's a 14. Delicacy and the twelfth fall away. We will be happy to talk about this. That is why, Mr Minister, in our negotiations I have also asked you to evaluate the system, i.e. to look after two years or after three years, how this has happened, whether it has been in line with the views of the legislator. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: We believe that preventive removal is better than subsequent withdrawal. With this today's decision, we're writing history in terms of traffic legislation, and I'm asking everyone to do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10607	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10629	Mr President. Minister of State, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker mentioned a step. Yes, we are for this step, but this step is too short, too short, too little. [[Abg. May. Controller: Very good!]] You know – and you, Mr Commissioner, certainly agree with me in the fact – that every injured person, every injured person, every dead person, every dead person, is actually one or one too much. They are also colleagues in the judicial committee. You know exactly: Loading theft – pre-punished. Traffic crimes, where people die, are often not suspected. There are uneven standards in our society. [[Abg. May. Controller: That's not true! There's a pre-punishment!]] I said they're often not suspected, I didn't say, in general. There are completely uneven standards in our society – and I believe that this is also the task of our political discussion here, to sharpen our conscience. On the one hand, a death strike, murder is strongly suspected. On the other hand, we tolerate, by means of our legislation, that more than 900 people in the transport sector die each year in Austria. I repeat to be killed. Certainly not intentional, but negligent. 900 killed per year, please, that sums up over the years. This corresponds to a small family per week. And that's being tolerated! In my opinion, however, this pre-remark system is far too difficult to combat. It is a much too weak instrument for me to meet this insanity of death on the street. Minister, you keep saying that you are committed at EU level to increasing road safety across the EU. Please, Austria is a final light in the EU, final light on road safety. Look at the statistics! Ask the Board of Trustees for Transport Safety! That is why we need to step up our efforts in the pre-eminence system, and we need a better lead ticket than other European countries, and finally we need to pick up to ensure that people have safety on the streets. Especially you, the ÖVP, the FPÖ, pretend to be the security fractions. They're fighting for security summits. Do something about road safety! We really have the opportunity to introduce rigorous point systems to make a sharp priority system. And what actually happens? – They bring a draft, but now we have a bill in which two elements have been removed from the draft. One is the invisible way to protect children when crossing roads. That's what you've deleted, that's meat. Excuse me, children don't care, you don't care about the safety of children. Delete this again from the pre-mark system. [[Abg. Wittauer: The best way to get rid of all drivers!]] Now don't do that! I have to put it that way, otherwise you don't understand the fact at all. And the other thing: If someone tried to enter a protection route, the driver must definitely stop, and we would have had the possibility that if he did not, this would also come to the forefront system. Knitting! Delete especially among the weakest road users They simply tighten up if the drivers violate these safety measures. I think it is good, I think it is really good for you to introduce the pre-remark system, to introduce the measures, to establish post-training courses and to have these two stages. Only: Expand the catalogue! Really make nails with heads! Enter the driver's flight into the catalog, enter the alcohol offence, enter the breach of speed infringements. You know exactly that the latter is the accident cause number one. – Nothing, nothing, it stays with the old! It is not foreseen in the pre-remark system that someone who is with me, I say now, driving 160 km/h on the motorway, will get any pre-remark. Nothing. On the contrary, Mr Minister, you are for the 160. I do not understand at all how, in the face of over 900 road-trafficking deaths, there may be more deaths in road traffic in the statistics. I just don't understand! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In the control system is also not inside when people run 70 and 80 km/h through the towns. Look at this once if Your kids go in front of the door and then they're going by one with 80! [[Abg. Wittauer: Then he's off the driver's license at all!]] This is dangerous, that is more dangerous than in the jungle! In fact, people in the jungle can feel safer than in part on Austrian roads. I have also been confirmed by the Board of Directors on Transport Safety. That's the way it is. All these risk potentials go You don't like it, but you're making a diaper-soft premise system that you now want to offer internationally as a big step. I admit, to provide this post-schooling and these courses, this two-stage system, I think it is quite good, but the catalogue with 13 offences is not really the true instrument, because speed, alcohol offences, driver flight, the protection of children on the protection road and so on, all this is not included. You don't care. That's my big charge, and that's why I'm staying with it: We need more traffic safety, we need a lot more ambitions. Here, Mr Minister, you would have had the opportunity, but unfortunately you have been kneeling, just like Mr Wittauer, who has also tried, in your own group, in the face of some blatant sturgeon that I thank God.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10713	Mr Gorbach has spoken from the government bank. - Please. [[14:18]] .11
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10737	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer to some of the things that the previous speaker has just given the best. This may also be done by other Members, but I am doing so because it is very exemplary for how this discussion has obviously been conducted in the last 12 years and has not led to any results and how this discussion will be held slightly differently, as Mr Miedl has already said, at the latest since June 2003. At the time, we have tried to improve safety on Austrian roads, which also finds the necessary acceptance, not only an acceptance in the form of a majority in Parliament, so that one can also implement it, but also an acceptance of the road user, i.e. of the person concerned, so that he does not Feels like it's either a shock, some of those who don't like it have something to think about again, or that's a financial intervention action by the Minister of Finance. He doesn't need that! We heard today, he's got the budget so well under control. Nice side by side! [[Abg. Riepl: Oh, that was just a fun!]] Mrs Moser, if you have said as an example and as a lack, that the excess of maximum speed is not a pre-eminent offence, then I tell you that you have to look at it very carefully, because that is – and I have also tried to conduct individual talks with all groups – a withdrawal offence, and of course you will find among these eight withdrawals the excess of the maximum permissible speed of more than 40 kilometres within the area or 50 kilometres outside the area and a fine of up to 726 € and two weeks. So there's already a withdrawal there. We have very consciously introduced the pre-eminence system – I hope it has also understood it – not as a pure intensification of the existing system of sanctions, but rather towards the formation of consciousness, in order to address or catch a very specific group, namely a group of dangerous road users, not to catch the same, by severely sanctioning and punishing, but by first drawing attention to: You are on the wood road, on the wrong path – in the truest sense of the word. Mrs Moser, you meant that the step was all right and acceptable, but it was too short, too little, too short. This is a formulation which I have often heard, especially from colleagues from your group, also in the country's policy: We want more, we want to go further!, knowing that nothing will happen then. And if you don't know, at least if you were in politics for a few years, you'd have to realize: What is feasible, what is feasible – parliamentary and also in the population – what is accepted? [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Look at Italy! Look at France!]] Of course, I am pleased that you have recognized – congratulations! – that my group is the security group in this House and in this Republic. That's the way it is. And if you think that safety here is not enough to speak, then I tell you that traffic safety was a priority of my transport policy, is and will remain. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Not for a long time!]] I am also – as you have rightly stated or repeated – at the European level at the meetings of the Transport Ministers, I am also always present at the meetings of the Transport Ministers, who will then also discuss this issue, and I believe that we should meet at least once a year only on this issue, which is now also happening in Verona. This meeting of the European Transport Ministers on transport safety has already taken place twice. Another comment, Mrs Moser. If you say that I don't care about children, then you didn't just insult me with that – because I agree with who can and may insult me – but you hit me. You know, I'm too long, ten years long, as a street builder in a federal country in front of schools, in front of kindergartens, in front of senior homes, in front of homes where older people are often – that is, weak road users, if you like – and have been considering with initiatives, with housewives initiatives, with teachers' initiatives, how we can improve the safety of road traffic by means of safety measures, whether through special markings, whether through the famous so-called zebra strips, i.e. protection paths, whether through publications. We have considered how we can make sure that less happens around these neural points. You can find out that I still have this reputation in the country, and you don't just put it that way. So this comment has not been in place. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: But there's nothing in the point catalog! Why do you not have the invisible protection route in the catalogue?]] On top of that, Mrs Moser, because you have made the point – on this issue we will discuss two more frequently, but not only us two – I am for 160 kilometres: I don't want to let that go that way either. In certain circumstances, I am in favour of the fact that security does not suffer, and I am in favour of discussing this, which is emotionless, that one collects facts and arguments and then exchanges them in due course. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Without presuming anything, I meant that the given time is when I can reduce speeds at the push of a button when it requires traffic safety relatively uncomplicated, unbureaucratic. Then you can also discuss whether it allows traffic safety to increase speed and thus actually adapt to reality. But that's another discussion. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: But it's not about it! It's about security!]] I think you have spoken against 160 km/h with your arguments, but you have quite gotten involved. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You should not pour the child out with the bath, Mrs Moser. That is why we have also sought a solution that can be implemented. This is where we are now, and I believe, as Mr Miedl said, that is a great day in Austria's transport policy, a great day for all those who are really concerned about road safety and who then also go the way of the feasible and the possible, even if perhaps there and there would have wanted a little more. If you say that in terms of security, we are the last ones in Europe – I don't know what statistics you have – your club seems to have its own statistics or sources; I have this differently in mind and I also know that it is different – I tell you that in addition to the introduction of the pre-mark system from 1. In July of this year, which we hope will continue to decide today – I would also like to invite you to give your vote – to organise and make campaigns on awareness-raising, especially in the direction of vulnerable groups, such as intrusive commercials against alcohol in the control and use of safety belts. You know, this is something where, in Austria, improvements are still clearly visible in the international ranking. We have carried out security actions that develop the Road Safety Charter, where we also invite and award private entrepreneurs, if they take part, participate and develop actions and activities beyond the legal framework. This is from beer without alcohol, which is particularly applied there, to voluntary driving safety trainings and more. This also includes awards and rewards in private companies when driving accident-free and such things for some time. This goes further from security actions to exchange programmes in respect of allied rails. These are investments of € 240 million that we have made over the last four years. Tunnel safety is increased by the extension of the counter-traffic tunnels in the high-level road network with second tubes. These too are investments of € 230 million in recent years, and this will of course continue. We have also looked at the safety of the construction site very carefully, because there are a lot of accidents happening there. We've sent traffic control systems on the way. This is very important in terms of security. ==References== The first section of this plant will be put into operation in the Greater Innsbruck region in Tyrol on April this year. The investment alone is € 30 million; in total it is € 260 million. The section control was introduced. First, there was the attempt in the Kaisermühlen tunnel, which proved itself. A second plant is on the switch, a third plant will soon be introduced between Haid and Sattledt. The multi-phase driver's license was introduced to eliminate a manco so that the driver's license holder can gain experience after a certain period of time and once again eliminate the existing gaps or weaknesses. The introduction of mandatory drug tests and alcohol screening devices, as well as the accident investigation law that we have decided, are also well suited to this series. So don't tell me we're not doing anything for safety in traffic! It has never been done as much for road safety as it has been in recent months and years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to express my thanks to all those who have worked very constructively and positively in this model, and this was also a long way – I hope I do not harm anyone – of course also the Transport Speaker and Transport Speaker of the opposition, that is, the Green and the SPÖ. I also always have an objective discussion with them as far as ‘colorless’ concerns are concerned, and road safety, prevention of injured people, of the dead, and thus avoiding fates that we all know should be a cross-party concern. I am all the more sorry that, despite the most extensive discussion – and it has taken a year and a half now – no one-sided opinion has been reached. If you look at the lead time, it is still fast anyway, but it has also taken so long, since June 2003 because we have had a lot of discussions: in large circles, in small circles, with experts, with automobile clubs, without experts, with international experts. We evaluated what happened where and how well arrived. You know that very well. So you've made some effort. I would particularly like to thank the speakers of the government groups, Miedl and Wittauer, who have put in a great deal of commitment and heartache here, together with my State Secretary Mag. Kukacka, in order at last to be able to make reality and implement a system that has long been a point guide and could hardly be discussed normally, a system that serves road safety in Austria. You know: We have set ourselves the goal of halving the number of road fatalities by 2010, i.e. by 50%. We have also undertaken to reduce by 20 percent the number of accidents caused by personal injury at this time. So that's quite specific figures. 876 road fatalities on Austria's roads last year are too much, are around 876 too much. That's clear to me. However, the development is a good one: In any case, this was the lowest number of road fatalities since 1952. So: The direction is right. According to estimates by the Österreich Transport Club and the Automobile Club, this system will reduce road fatalities by 70, 75 to 80 road deaths. That would be a great success. Even if it is less, it will be a success; I am very convinced of this premise system. The 13 offences listed taxively are those that most often lead to serious accidents with follow-up accidents. They know that these offences are predetermined by the driving licence authorities in the local driving licence register for the period of two years. The new premise system brings a very clear classification: In the first attempt at one of these 13 offences, apart from the punishments that are already to be imposed – and this must always be said – there is a premise. In addition, there is also the measure that when one of these offences is committed for the second time, special measures can be arranged. You also know that, taking into account the individual case, we are dealing with this measure in connection with the offence, i.e. the offence committed. There are re-trainings for alcohol-conspicuous or otherwise traffic-conspicuous handlebars, driving safety trainings and instructions in life-saving emergency measures. We have really made sure that these measures are understood to be not just a punishment, because we have done something that we must not do, but that this is something to understand and learn from, not to do it any more in the future. In addition, I have already mentioned this, the pre-remark system is intended to cover risk controllers, capture multiple perpetrators and to influence these handlebars Sanctioningly and above all Consciously. The formation of consciousness is a very special concern to me. Above all, it should be used to get under control those groups of controls that can no longer be held reasonable and responsible with fines alone. The third point is the withdrawal of the licence. You know there's a connection here with the eight withdrawal crimes. I believe that we have also achieved a very balanced and good compromise with a bill on the basis of the many and long discussions that we can present today for decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean – and I would like to stress this too – this system of excellence is a dynamic system and expandable. If the execution brings new starting points, new insights, then nothing is ground in stone. But in the next few years, let this Austrian priority system work on Austria's streets! Let's try! Let it increase safety on Austrian roads, on the high-level road network! I am convinced that it will be a success. I invite you all to agree and participate in this success.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10870	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10891	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! It is clear to me that the Social Democrats have no pleasure in deciding on this premise system today, also because it was a long struggle. In fact, when the Social Democrats presented the Minister for Transport, they actually wanted to have what we are implementing today – perhaps not one at a time, but you wanted to implement it. But you did not succeed with the ÖVP. The fact is: We and our Minister for Transport Hubert Gorbach have succeeded in a long way in the negotiations! I have never – and I hope that this culture of negotiations will continue – experienced that the opposition was as involved as it was in this case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] Mrs Moser! I'm still coming to see you. Then we may also be able to discuss what you have said here today, word “Jungle. ” I've got out here or back and forth in my place, when I listen to you, the feeling that I'm in the jungle. It's not as dangerous as it is, but sometimes I feel like it is. I'll come back to what you said. But it is essential that we have taken a step that has not only increased road safety but also been recognised by all organisations. This is the first step in the right direction. No one can say that VCÖ is a friend of our party. He's very critical. At the time when we first presented this system, he judged us on television and made broadcasts. But also the VCÖ is telling us now, that is the right step in the right direction. In two years we'll look at this again, maybe you can improve this one or the other. It is also important that the population accepts this. Thank you, Hubert, as well as the entire government: All were involved in the pre-eminence system against unimproved risk drivers. I also remember very well: Mrs Moser said that no person understands this system, it is too complicated. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: I didn't say that!]] - Or it was one of the Social Democrats. Today, the population – can read it – knows how simple this system is. That was our commitment to that: Simplicity, everyone has to be able to understand it, everyone needs to know what he has about it. If one takes the prefaces and if it is said that the lawns do not get into the pre-marking system, there is no link, then I have to hold on: That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. You will notice once you drive too fast. It is as follows: If you have a reservation and a driver's license withdrawal because of shaving, then you get two weeks. If you have two prefaces, you get four weeks. The allegations therefore do not vote – a link is very well given, even an intensification. For example, if you have a longer driver's license withdrawal in this case, no one can say that this has been weakened. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: When I drive 40 km/h faster...!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I know when you ride the bike, you can't lose a driver's license. But there are also people who work. There are people who need the car to get to their place of work. These are the commuters in many regions. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: They shouldn't drive too fast!]] They expect us to protect them from the shavers, and they expect us to protect them from those who are inconspicuous. Our system includes something – and I am surprised that the Greens do not agree – that is, awareness-building. With the second step of the measures it is so – the catalogue of measures is prepared by the Transport Safety Board – that we increase the awareness of those people who have committed such crimes twice. Such a person may then be so blatant that he takes the opportunity not to commit such a crime anymore. I don't know if the system is so new. We're not just punishing all the time. That is what I am looking at, if we are going through with the Social Democrats, when we say today: So, Zack, and now we get through hard! I know very well that it doesn't work that way and that the opposition is right now with a but against it. Please, I will now take note of that. However, I believe that we have conducted this discussion very intensively in the liberal club and also in the ÖVP. I believe that we must also do this work of conviction on the ground with people. That is why this article is quite good, in which the priority system is presented. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date.]] I also know – I also want to say that – the efforts of the Secretary of State Kukacka. He has been very deeply involved in this discussion. If something is good now, but if you want to do anything bad out here again, Mrs Moser, I wonder if it makes any sense to invite the opposition. Those you always mention when it comes to criticism are in agreement with the new system and all that is related to it, namely the Curatorium on Transport Safety. They now want to be the ones who spend themselves as a savior of humanity and say: This jungle out there! I say to you: This Minister for Transport has done something, namely a transport management system, which not only serves to calm down traffic but also includes all measures relating to the environment. There it is feasible. That's €30 million in Tyrol, and all the other federal states are still in the line. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: This pays the ASFINAG!]] Section Control keyword: No one is talking about it today, but this measure has taken immediate action. The accident in the Kaisermühlentunnel was high; today: no more accident! This is not just the premise system, it is only a part of it. There are other possibilities with regard to the driving licence. I am thinking of the spots, the commercial spots, which should also raise awareness. There is an entire catalogue, not just those areas that really need to be deeply grasped in order to achieve the committed target of 50 percent less traffic deaths. Please wait, Mrs Moser! We will get next and next year numbers that will surprise you very much. We will be very much closer to the objective set. We've already done one thing: 50 dead less. Every dead person less is a successfully prevented dead person. Please support this! – Ladies and gentlemen, you will have to tell people that you are against road safety. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: That's why I'm for more crimes!]] You'll have to explain that to them. I've got it relatively simple. I am going to explain why we are setting up these measures, namely to make it better for the individual citizen who is driving the car. But you, Mr Broukal, will have to explain why the Social Democrats do not agree with a system that brings more road safety. [[Abg. Eder: We like to explain that!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Why are alcohol and shaving not included?]] Explain it to people! I see how important it is. Unfortunately, God is a sad story. We have thought before that this is a mega-theme that will concern people. It does not even concern Members, and I do not take up our group. This does not even concern Members throughout the House: Transport safety, prevention of road fatalities and accidents. We will also look at how people react outside. We must take the fear of them and put in place measures to protect them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak]] If we do this, if we “get in” with people, implement these measures and raise awareness of the population, then we have taken an essential step in the right direction. Then we can take the next step. But overthrew You don't have a whole package of people! [[Abg. Mandak: But with alcohol you can set clear limits!]] Out here I've seen the bat in a little bit. The drivers should also know how Mrs Moser stood out here and every car driver has almost personally threatened, because she may have to ride the road back and forth! [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: It's about people!]] The drivers are not those who, as you have said, move in the jungle, but they are powerful citizens. Some of them are shavers that we want to pull out of traffic. I congratulate you once again, including you, Hubert, for this great work. We will continue where we have implemented an essential step with the decision today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11088	I call Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11109	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In one we agree: There is no question that it is quite positive to assess that this government continues to pursue the objective of Mr Verkehrsminister, a target of reducing to 50 percent of traffic deaths by 2010. Mr Wittauer spoke about the culture of conversation. Mr Vice-Chancellor also said that he had let the opposition go along and felt it was a very positive mood. I can only say that I am a little disappointed by this conversation culture. If I read today in the newspapers – and probably in all the newspapers – that this product, which you are now presenting as a bill, the Transport Speakers of the parliamentary parties, the Chamber of Workers and others have cooperated, then this is the attempt to assume that all are in Parliament for this presentation. That is what we want to suggest to the population. Mr Vice-Chancellor, in the case of a paid advertising campaign that the State and all its citizens have to pay, I think it is a breach of a culture of conversation. You can believe me! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Rest of interest.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kainz.]] It is also very strange that today, Mr Vice-Chancellor and his two State Secretarys are sitting in sad agreement back there. This is rather a reflection of false facts, because in reality there has been an internal debate on this bill. We know that. There was no substantial agreement before that. The ÖVP is predominated, has presented its own model. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Vice-Chancellor was deeply offended, presented his counter-model. What came out, we see: Something unforgettable on a highly sensitive issue, not reasonable, a weak compromise with a wrong approach. It has been the basic policy of this coalition to scrape the drivers, as the ARBÖ has noted. The year 2004 brought the highest car costs for four years. Car costs have increased by 47 percent faster than the general cost. We recall the vignette, the increase in fees and the rise in the tax on mineral oil. Now you are making a system with which in turn there is more bureaucracy and a higher cost burden for the drivers. In reality, the introduction of this point leader's license is a wrong way. To introduce a point driver's license would make sense if effective measures were taken against the high-risk regulators. You just need to see what the driver clubs say about it. The ÖAMTC says it's a gross system break: For example, who twice to the front man In the case of a third pre-eminence offence, a three-month withdrawal of the steering authority must be expected. On the other hand, someone who makes a serious high-speed crime and an alcohol offense in a row has a white vest in his third infringement. The ARBÖ says that it is against this system because the withdrawal of the steering authority and an additional pre-requisition system constitute a double penalty, which is not actually in conformity with the law. Ladies and gentlemen! What you're doing here is not correct. And you don't have an executive that controls all of this. You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have agreed that in Austria we have 3 000 police and gendarmen less, and cannot control all of this. – We reject this lazy compromise!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11172	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11194	Mr President. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! There are often strange remarks from some sides, but I prefer not to have heard them. Mr Parnigoni, you have given a beautiful collection of statements. On the one hand, you meant that it would be a pleasure if the government committed itself to the goal of having half as many traffic deaths in 2010, at the same time you certainly do not contribute if you do not take this law into account today. And in a few years' time, you will find that we have adopted a very successful priority system today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: In a wrong system!]] The aim of the introduction of this pre-remark system in the driving licence is to increase road safety. The goal is that we have fewer injured and fewer dead. We have been quite successful on the road to raising road safety in recent years, which has already been noted several times today. The number of fatalities has fallen considerably. I believe that we will take another positive step in this direction with this new system of priority. I also believe that it is an absolutely good alternative to the point leader's license, how it is practiced in Germany and how this system has been discussed in us, because it is easier, cheaper and more efficient in our eyes. It is coherent and relatively simple in itself. It is by far none, as some of the opposition have meant, complicated and non-comprehensible system. This pre-remark system is located under the withdrawal system and is intended to help prevent risk regulators from accumulating dangerous situations. It's probably every one of us ever had the experience with a drifter on the highway. [[Abg. Broukal: Except alcoholized and shaved!]] – That is not true, Mr President. You know it's not true, but you keep claiming it! [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: They're not in the premise system!]] Just as you have certainly met the impatient one on the panstrip or the one who does not observe the red light or stop plates. – We want to deter all these risk regulators from doing this pre-remark system, so that they no longer commit these actions. Nothing is preferable to these rulers than the driver's license, nothing deters these rulers more than, for example, having to do training. They said that alcohol offences, for example, would not be included. But the opposite is the case: In particular, alcohol sinners who have not yet withdrawn a driver's licence will be included in this system and will receive a premise. That means you're talking about better knowledge and trying to represent it differently. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: You're not in the forefront system!]] I also believe that it is absolutely necessary to involve this group. It is also important that we include parents who do not properly secure their children in this system. It has also been said by my fellow speakers, and also by the Bank of Ministers, that it is about collecting the most important facts that are included in a list of fatal accidents, and trying to include them in the pre-eminent system. I would like to admit that there would be other facts that we could also record. There is also our willingness to evaluate this system and, possibly, to say in one, two years, we are still taking this or that offense. But you will see and agree that it would be pointless to wait so long for such a system to be introduced until we have the best system that pleases everyone. In the meantime, this probably would not have survived some. And if we help to make a few dead people less and a few less injured – we will certainly have that – we have taken a good step today. I think we're doing something, we're not just waiting. We should start now, and I would like to invite you once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11282	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11303	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have asked how the Greens have their statistics. – You should perhaps look at fewer fishing grounds in Russia and go to the Transport Safety Board more often, because you would find these statistics there. In the area of transport safety, Austria is in one of the last places in the EU comparison with the 25th, i.e. the enlarged EU. This is a witness of poverty! This means, in concrete terms, high speed limits, high alcohol limits and low penalties. That together, this mixed situation, brings traffic uncertainty to our streets. The priority system should be specifically devoted to the question of high-risk rulers. Selected offences are to be noted in the driver's licence register, and striking handlebars are to be returned to the right path by means of appropriate targeted measures and by threatening to withdraw the driver's licence in case of cumulation of prenotations. Among the 13 offences covered are co-polluters, but substantial offences with a proven high risk, such as mobile phones at the tax that have never been mentioned before. – Probably so many MEPs are driving mobile phones. We have noticed this because this offence has even led to the resignation of a minister of the FPÖ. – In any case, it is unacceptable from the Greens’ point of view that 180 km/h on motorways, 150 km/h on free land roads and speed 90 in the local area or speed 70 in a 30 km/h zone do not lead to a pre-remark. A remark on the edge: The cause of the accident today on the A1 in Upper Austria with two dead and eleven injured was excessive speed and too little safety distance. [[Vice chancellor Gorbach: And fog warning system overlooked!]] What we also criticise, and what has already been said by Mr Moser, is that other offences with leading positions in accident statistics have not been included in the premise system, or so, that even reliefs have arisen from the previous legal situation, such as in the case of certain alcohol offences. The relativizing formulation of some points authorizes so-called cavalry offences; For example, the sluggish justification of the weaker road users. The failure to comply with the obligation is always a threat and not only when it comes to differentiation after risk. This is an unnecessary and false signal. If you say you're the security group, I can confirm that. I am sure you are the group which is the most personal PR for lack of concern. I have nothing against the fact that such things are brought to the public, but I have a lot against the fact that the vice chancellor's counterfeit can always be seen. It's not about me not giving you that, but it's not allowed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many people then believe that it is an advertising show and don't even look at it, although it might be important for them. I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the event that you can come close to our motion for a resolution, we could also imagine approaching your proposal in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11367	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Dr Moser, friends and friends, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Dr Moser spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11396	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, my colleague, Mr Franz Glaser, said that the new system of priority and system of measures is about speed crossings and alcohol abuses. I'll put it right: The premise system does not include these two main offences. The premise system does not provide for any offences involving speed crossings or alcohol at the wheel. The fact is that the old withdrawal offences have been retained, but have not been included in the new premise.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11437	Mr Hofmann. You have 2 minutes of speaking time before the short debate begins. I would ask you to keep this speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11458	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rester-Hintersieer mentioned that a handlebar operating at 70 km/h within a speed limit of 30 km/h would not happen because this would not be foreseen in the pre-mark system. The fact is that the driving licence procedure is in place. It's not true that there's no fear of this crime. I think that the objective of this system of priority, namely greater transport safety and less fatality, is very essential, and I am also convinced that it will be achieved. It's about the risk controllers, the multiple or repeat offenders. It is essential that no point driver's license is to be introduced. Mr. Federal Minister Gorbach has already explained the classification. I would like to point out once again that these presuppositions, which are carried out with the appropriate accompanying measures, are in addition to the existing penalties. This novelle will be a success – measured by the objective. It took long, intense, professional and, as I say, a most serious way of getting to this novel. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this. I am convinced that this system is excellent and that the desired effects, the desired goal, will be achieved. Mr Verkehrsminister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I would also like to see the debate on the 160 km/h as serious as not being disturbed by calls or, as I believe, not very qualified comments. It is about allowing 160 km/h on motorways, on routes where this is possible. If it allows the weather if it allows the route conditions and allows the traffic density, then one should switch to such an intelligent system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11502	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 5 of the agenda. [[15:00:30]] Short debate on the response to the question 2327/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11523	We come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Justice, 2327/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I would ask Mr Oellinger as an applicant for the request to open the debate. [[Abg. Oellinger: To the Rules of Procedure!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11558	Mr President. I would like to await the presence of the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11576	The Federal Minister is on his way, I hear. Is that right? I'm about to interrupt the meeting to inform me. [[The session will be suspended for a short time.]] Mr deputies, here she is. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11603	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== August 2004 at around 11.15 a.m., the death of Edwin Ndupu's prisoner is in the justice centre of Stein. I don’t know how the term “sheep ” came into my question. It is clear that it is not, of course, a bully who would not have to sit in stone, but elsewhere. This is one of the few facts we know: Edwin Ndupu was apparently sentenced for a drug crime, was imprisoned in stone, came from Nigeria and was HIV-positive. If you combine these few facts, ladies and gentlemen, then they are probably enough to say something about the biography of this not old, but rather young people. Or it's speculation, like so much about Edwin Ndupu. Edwin Ndupu dies. He has no relatives in Austria, there is no one who cares for his interests. Edwin Ndupu is therefore also buried anonymously in an arm's grave, as it is so beautiful, in a cemetery in Krems. What happened? How did it get to death? – On the same day, that is, on the 19th century. In August, between 9 and 10 a.m., when the prisoners were brought back to the cells after handling, Edwin Ndupu – obviously also after the presentation of the Ministry of Justice – had a deal with a second prisoner. In the course of this round-up trade with the second prisoner, where Edwin Ndupu had a bread knife in his hand, judicial guards came and tried to end the trafficking. There has been a lot of it. The law enforcement officers have been hard to do, I say carefully, because they knew he was HIV-positive. So you worked with pepper spray from a distance. Edwin Ndupu does not react like other people to pepper spray, does not show the typical reactions you have when using pepper spray, like running away or tears in the eyes, but remains standing there. That's a fact I'm going to come back to. Then – I cut off the whole thing, because it is not quite clear, even after the presentation of the Ministry of Justice and in the response of the Federal Minister of Justice, how all this happened – Edwin Ndupu is brought into his cell, and while he is locked in the cell and may have randalized there, a tear gas pattern is thrown into the cell through the eating slot. Afterwards, we do not know how much time has passed, the cell is stormed by judicial officers, not a few, namely by more than ten people. Edwin Ndupu are hand and foot shackles, and he is then brought to the so-called corrective cell in the justice centre of Stein. In the correction cell, Edwin Ndupu suffers a first heart arrest. He is re-animated, receives valium, suffers a second heart arrest and is dead. Seven hours after this incident, the medical officer comes to the institution to investigate the dead prisoners. He wants to enter the cell, but can't enter it – that's also in his opinion – because the tear gas residues are too high. He's not going in, he's not going to see the cell. – That’s the second thing I’m going to come back to. That's it, too. There is then an opinion in which it is found that there is no one else in death to blame than Edwin Ndupu himself. It was a violent death, but Edwin Ndupu exerted violence on himself. Second point: Tear gas as a cause of death can certainly be excluded because no tear gas was found in the lung in the person concerned. That is strange, Mrs Federal Minister, and I am already in the answer to the question. You can say that's not your problem, that's what the expert says. The expert doesn't go into the cell. He says the tear gas is too strong, and the same expert says: Tear gas – no problem. I'm sure that wasn't the cause of death. But now we know from other countries and from similar cases that in cells the use of tear gas, especially of this tear gas, has repeatedly led to deaths, because one is clear: Tear gas is a chemical means of fighting, is despised in the case of war. Also Austria should not use tear gas in the case of war, but in prisons, in closed rooms, tear gas is allowed in this form in which it was used. Imagine that! In the case of war, the use of tear gas is not allowed, not on open field, but in the closed small cell, tear gas may be used. No one, nor the expert, nor the judicial authority, says, under what conditions and at which doses of tear gas may be used at all. It may be used under certain conditions, which you also describe in your request response, but at which dose, it is nowhere. That this tear gas used in Austria is the most toxic form of the tear gas, Mrs. Federal Minister, we should also talk about it. – But now comes the real point. The expert also notes that Edwin Ndupu did not respond properly to the tear gas or to the pepper spray at all, but the opinion does not further explain why he did not respond. Do you know what the reason is? – This can also be found in the literature, Mrs. Federal Minister: HIV-positive people do not show the same symptoms as people who are not HIV-positive. So you can nebble it with tear gas, and it won't show the same symptoms. But he is poisoned, both by the pepper spray – since he has not shown any symptoms, but has stood there or has beaten around me – and then also through the tear gas. - Point one. Second point: You yourself, Mrs. Federal Minister, state in your answer: There were “no injuries in the head, face, mouth, and mouth, ” so“ it is safe to exclude an abuse by other persons. ” Do you know what the opinion itself says? – Blood circulations were also found in the area of the headbrow in the right spindle and left back of the head. – That says that opinion, which says in the same place, no injuries in the head, face, mouth could be detected! That's in the same opinion! I'm a layman. The expert says: no injuries on the head, and writes in the next sentence: very probably injuries on the head. – So what is there really a cause? But the expert also says – and then it becomes really colorful –: Of course, it is impossible to rule out the fact that some bloodshed could have been caused by beatings with a baton in the course of the conflict with the officials and the detainees. - Quote. So what? – There may have been some hits, but then the expert says: Thus, abuse by other persons can be safely excluded. I don't know, Mrs. Federal Minister, if you've seen the pictures of this dead Edwin Ndupu: He was over and over covered with hematomas! And now the expert says: Yeah, the good man, he's got these hematomas on the sides of the arms and legs. If I protect myself from a blow, what do I do? Then I'd probably do it that way. [[The speaker raises his arms and keeps them safe from him.]] So where do I get the hematoma? – There, and maybe also on the head. [[The speaker points to the outsides of his arms]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (pointing to the speaker) He knows himself very well!]] – So what the opinion says, doesn’t explain anything at all! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Now I do not want to do one thing, Mrs Federal Minister: to condemn anyone – neither the Ministry of Justice, nor the prisoners, nor the judicial guard officers involved – but what it needs is a public for this case! It can't be that at...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11663	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11678	.... Thank you, Mr President, for an incident in a judicial body involving judicial officers, the judicial system, the law-enforced judicial system, explains itself: No one was guilty except the one who died. – It can't be! And that's why, Mrs. Federal Minister: Public opinion and a second opinion. What is available here is not enough. That's a scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11709	Mrs Bundesminister Mag has spoken from the government bank. Miklutsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11730	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Oellinger, I have been following your formulations with great interest and, of course, I already know your positions from your press releases, which you have made since the death of Mr Ndupu. I can also tell you that I'm the last person who doesn't want to take care of a public. You will be able to confirm this to me, especially in connection with the death of Mr Ndupu – who personally, I must say, has made me very concerned, because the situation in which this person died was certainly a very, very difficult one for all concerned. You have to imagine that this prisoner has killed and whatever the exceptional situation this is for the judicial guards. In the judicial institutions, we have the precept that in these cases – these are exceptional cases, and I am very glad that these exceptions, especially those involving angry prisoners, are very rare – as far as the execution is concerned, so as the judicial guards have to deal with these people, they always have to use the most needed means first. It's right how you say that pepper spray was first used, it's right how you say that with a shield and with this stick you tried to calm the prisoner, but it's also right – and that's what you have She didn't say – that this prisoner was HIV-positive, had injured himself and already bleeding – that's important, especially in connection with HIV-positive. And what's important is to say that he attacked others with a bread knife. – You have to see this in the overall situation! [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. Oil)...! The answer is completely correct!]] So this is really to be seen in the overall situation, and you have to imagine: It was used up to 15 judicial guards to bring to rest those people who certainly had a huge force. I am absolutely with you that we must ask for clarification here and that this case should be clarified. For this reason, as you know, Mr. Deputies, Stein has immediately launched an advertisement at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna, or at the public prosecutor's office in Krems, in this case, and it was held on the same day by the competent investigative court that the obduction was still to be carried out on the same day. – This is a very important step, but the independent judicial system has taken. As you have correctly done, it is so that the reviewer comes to these results: He comes to the conclusion – I do not know the opinion in detail, of course; as you can certainly imagine, I did not read the act in detail, especially the opinion in detail; I was interested in the summary, and the summary was, as you also said, that there was no causal link between the intervention of judicial officers and the death of Mr Ndupu, who unfortunately died. – For us, especially for the prosecutor's office, this opinion was coherent and comprehensible in itself. I have to say that, too, because I think that is also not known in this circle: that this ad wasn't the only one. The Nigerian Embassy and the IAEA have also made an announcement to the prosecutor's office, they have requested witnesses who have also been carried out. – The prosecutor's office, together with the investigative court, carried out extensive investigations, and the result of these investigations was exactly what you mentioned. I would like to say something about the use of tear gas – because you mentioned the use of tear gas in judicial institutions, especially in this particular case –: In general – but I have already answered this question in writing in my answer to the question – tear gas is still being used in judicial institutions. But in this special case, the prisoner Ndupu, when he noticed that tear gas is used, has opened the window with his shoulder and neck. [[Abg. Oils: Must he do!]] Yeah, it's right. So he opened the window and was then with the head out of the window – according to my records, as the process was. That means that there was an open window there, and in the sense there was no more closed space. In general, it is very important for me... – honourable Member, may I speak out, please? - No! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Now everyone has to be tied up...? How do you imagine that?]] No, please let me talk. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) He's going on the people, and you're doing your stories!]] It's like this: In general, it is important to me that we also take care of the security of judicial guards in the judicial institutions. The security of the judicial guards is also part of the fact that it can use an instrument – that is, special equipment, weapons, as you would like to say – both for its own defence and for the protection of the inmates, but also for the other inmates. Of course, part of my master's plan for the execution of the sentence, which is already in preparation or is already completed on rough points, is also this area of security in criminal execution and the use of equipment in criminal execution. I'd like to be willing to go through the field of the use of tear gas – I don't care at all, I don't have a problem with it at all. I am concerned that security is also guaranteed in the judicial institutions: the security of prisoners on the one hand, but also, please – and this is my job, and that is my primary task – to protect the security of judicial guards from such outrages, when there is actually a bulwark of an inmate. – I see that as my task, and I want to carry out this task, and I will carry out this task. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11823	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Fekter spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11852	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It is a very, very unfortunate incident that has taken place there, and I am grateful to the Minister for the fact that in her reply she has actually given very specific information here. I also believe that there is a need to discuss this in Parliament that the use of weapons – and tear gas has in this case been used as a weapon – must also be discussed here. Only, Mr Oellinger: I think you have made a few inadmissible suggestive compounds that are so unreadable from this case. They somehow gave the impression that the tear gas had been used in the detention room, that the prisoner would have been left inside until he had died, and at a later date the obduction had not been carried out there because the court physician did not dare. – That's how your presentation was from this speaker's desk. [[Abg. Sburny: Didn't you listen?]] It is clear from the answer to the question that after the use of the tear gas the passenger was brought to another cell, to the isolation cell that there was no more tear gas there and that after his very sad death the passenger was brought to the pathology of the hospital Krems and observed there. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: You don't do that in prison!]] So from my point of view, the question is: Why should the court doctor have gone to the prison cell with the tear gas? – You have here massively criticized that this was not the case. [[Abg. Oellinger: You don't even know the opinion! It's in there!]] The Second is: They have made a direct link: Cause of death tear gas. But this is clearly not legible from the opinion, but... [[Abg. Oillinger: The opinion is the problem!]] Okay, I'm not a doctor, and that's why I'm standing here... – Mr. Ollinger may have failed here, but I'm not a doctor, I can't judge that. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But the oilling! The oilman!]] If the opinion states that no detectable traces of tear gas have been found in the lung air, it should be ruled out that tear gas is the cause of death and that there was no fatal behaviour of the intervention workers, then as a Member of this judicial opinion I must take note of it. [[Abg. Older: Read!]] There is no contrary opinion available to me. If there is a contrary opinion and there are two different positions, you can discuss it, Mr Oellinger. But only everything, because it doesn't fit in with your argumentation chain to make it bad at once, I don't think it's legitimate. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stop it! He's done this a lot differently!]] I also think that it is a bit a bit queer if one takes such an unfortunate incident as an occasion to construct scandals here that have not resulted from the investigations. [[Abg. Sburny:...! There was the Minister's answer to what you are talking about!]] Second: I must say quite honestly that I felt it sad that there was no mention of the security of the judicial guards here. At least eleven people have been injured, the marginalising inmate was HIV-positive, had a knife with which he had injured himself, so there was a risk of infection. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's why the Pendl can't talk either!]] I must say quite honestly, of course, that the principle of proportionality applies in the application of the funds, only: The safety of officials must also be taken into account in such a very specific case!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12001	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12032	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I like that She's dealing with the question of who's talking. [[Abg. Dr Fekter: Mr Pendl, what do you say about this?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of SPÖ) Does the Pendl have a prohibition of speech with you?]] Mrs Fekter, I have to tell you quite honestly, I do not understand why you have the pretext that the discussion should remain factual and that it should be to the Commissioner Oellinger here inaccurately and also to try to present that he would have polemized here more or less against the judicial guards. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The Doctor of Oillinger!]] I would really like to invite you to deal with all these matters, as did the Minister of Justice – I am not willing to interpret them there – in the same way that she did. In fact, the whole incident already has two aspects: One is that there is an extremely unfortunate incident and an expert who obviously tries to make the situation nice. And the second is that the whole thing, of course... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a premise!]] If you please let me speak, Mrs Fekter. This artisticly represented exaggeration is really not in place here. It is a very tragic development – but it can happen again at any time, ladies and gentlemen! This is actually the problem: there is a systemic background, which leaves no choice more or less for the people in prison homes! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you have evidence that the opinion...? Then give evidence!]] The officers there are burned out, you know that very well. – I do not know if you know, Mr President; Mr Fekter would have to know. – There is an absolute under-retirement, there is no means of substance. It's true, people are being detained there – I can invite you, go over to Josefstadt Detention Centre. There will be locked up on Friday in the afternoon until Monday in the morning, and then violence will occur there! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: On the matter!]] There is no supervision that would be necessary accordingly, ladies and gentlemen. And there are, of course, such and such among the prisoners, and there are those who are then beaten, and you hear the screams there. I can only tell you: If you experience such a thing – and I believe that you too will all be able to do it as I am – and realize that you can't change it, that you can't remove the violence that happens to individuals there, that's doing it quite a bit. I therefore believe that it is necessary that we really take all our responsibility here and create systems, make improvements that really take advantage of them effectively – for the inmates as well as for the law enforcement staff. They're burned! Go unannounced once – you may enter at any time – and talk to the people who have to do their service there! It's under-occupied. That's not funny, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Murauer:... that they are burned out!]] In view of the fact that in the last three or four weeks, the Minister of Justice, too, has been aware of the circumstances, because no one who deals with them can escape, has explained that there must be massive improvements here: There must be more trained staff, they need care that people who are in execution must be treated. – You have to deal with this, this is a management task, and the Minister of Justice has therefore also said: We will and we must make improvements here! When I look at what ignorance and what arrogance is being passed over here by yesterday's Council of Ministers decision that there is no such thing as this: There is not the means announced by the Minister of Justice himself for matters of substance! – Please understand that you really don’t solve anything with it, but that it’s more or less, I’d really say not only cynical, but partly – you have to say, if you know it, and some of you know it – is already evil, as is done here. They do nothing but a cooking pot, where you all put in – the executive staff, the execution of the sentence and the prisoners – and allow them to cook and watch until it explodes. And I don't think that's characterless! Mrs. Fekter, then go here and say that someone who is dealing with this matter – whether it be the opposition or anyone else outside, and there is enough of that – and here he tries to discuss, the polisher – I invite you to reconsider it, because I think everyone can be wrong, but that is the wrong access! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have a false opinion! What evidence do you have?]] This is a subject that needs to be resolved, not with small-cared argumentation – I am not putting it to you now, but that should not be the subject of an internal-political debate. Go, check it out! Things have to be... [[Abg. Miedl: How do you solve such a thing? How do you solve such a thing?]] Mr President, do not stir up so artificially! It's tormenting with you, really! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12183	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12205	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I know you, Mr Jarolim, I have to say, if I withdraw the exaggerations that usually come from you: I agree with you that, in particular, there is a need to take a very close look at justice and justice, and to see if there is sufficient staff available. If that is what you meant, Mr President, then we are not in agreement. But then we have to talk to each other objectively, not in the form of debt allocations and in the form of exaggerations, for that is, I believe, a common concern. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also think, Mr Oellinger, that we are talking about an extremely tragic incident here. The only question now is how you work it up. They work it up so that you get the impression: There, a group of atrocious judicial officers have forgotten themselves and have gone on to the health of a prisoner without adequate consideration. It wasn't like that! I miss a little objectivity here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] No, no, no, There's no objectivity. [[New call of the abg. Mandak.]] If you interrupt me now, I'll tell you the truth. In your request, have you considered the risk of these judicial officers working? Imagine, please, that you would have to have a prisoner who is in a subjectively desperate situation, who is HIV-positive, who has a knife in his hand and who is out of his hand, who has a terrorist attack! Now you're thinking: Well, maybe the tear gas I'm allowed to use doesn't work with him as with others, we don't use it! That's where I ask you: How is this situation going to continue? You know, objective work is a matter of fact, and we certainly agree when I say: [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] We must be careful that the prisoners are treated correctly and their health is gentle! But then I also have to accept the overall situation. But your group has a strange position here, especially as regards the opinion of Mrs Stoisits. It is pleased when the Romanian President says: No, we don't want the offer of the Austrian government to build a prison with us! She's happy about it. What is the result of this joy when it is justified? That we have to deal with all cases concerning Romanians in Austria and continue to do so, 270 to 370 in alternating numbers, that these Romanians have no alternative, they cannot be resocialized, they cannot get work and they stay with us. Then, when the detention has been carried out until the last second, they come to the border and are passed on to a position of hopelessness in the home country. That's exactly what you want! They show that you are actually concerned with the polemics, about the polemic processing and not about the matter. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That's the sad one!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12275	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Green forest. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12297	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I think Karl Oellingers has argued fairly and very decently. I just want to make it a little concrete: He meant, Mrs. Justice Minister, that it was not your problem. I'd express it more precisely and say it's not your fault. It is our whole problem and also your problem – a problem of insufficient, inadequate and risky care in judicial institutions. This is not a debt assignment to the staff there. It is a sign of lack of personnel and also a sign of poor medical, psychiatric care of difficult prisoners. But it is also a problem of the whole assessment situation, because there are not only opinions that you simply have to believe, but a judge or a judge must also be able to rely on opinions. I would like to point out a few points where I must say: Even if I were not a doctor or a lawyer, I can say with the simple mind of a citizen: Such opinions are risky because they do not serve to find the truth, but simply put things in the room without providing really necessary hie and solid evidence! I wonder, What's going on? Judge, if something is already put on a certain track about opinions, then open up and say: I don't think so, I don't understand!? - That's what the least people will do. The tear gas is in no original context at all, I would not trust to say, if the substance used is known that HIV patients do not react to it like other citizens, and therefore one may be forced to come to the success, using higher doses that are then toxic. Scientific descriptions of this substance say that in some cases allergic, anaphylactic reactions of the lungs and respiratory organs are possible, i.e., lung oedema, which can also cause problems in the event of heart problems. The expert writes that on the one hand the heart was burdened by state of excitement. – If I’m HIV-positive and my cell, so to speak, in which I don’t want to sit, gets full fog and then pepper spray is used, I’m also excited. The expert could have proved such things without further delay by simply looking at how many adrenal hormones or catecholamins are in the urine. If he says he could not prove the tear gas in a cell he did not want to enter himself, because the tear gas was still so noticeable there – at least for him – then it is also necessary that he indicate that his method is somewhat unsafe. Otherwise I would recommend that you send the deaf to the opera and say they should write a review about “The Magic Flute”, although they don’t hear anything. If you can't prove by a method that tear gas has been used, then it's the wrong method. Further point: To say that a violation of external debt is to be ruled out, I think it is a risk. It can be said that foreign debt is not likely or cannot be proved, but to say that it is excluded is definitely not quite right. If it is claimed – and I have seen the photos: there are really tissue disorders up to two, three centimetres under the skin, up into the muscle, visible with blood clots – he would have removed the window, then I have to ask: Where are the tracks on the window? Was there a trace security? Is that proven or not? In addition to that, this is something general, finally a short example – it is not just this case –: If in an opinion on Omofuma, the first expert, a Bulgarian, had claimed that the body image would indicate fast suffocating, but to the body image showing small-area bleeding, a reviewer writes: Even in the pressing of the stool, in the case of birth procedures, in the case of severe coughing or asthma attacks, these bleedings may occur, there are also punctual bleedings in the case of sudden infant death and deep-breed breathing, so while punctual bleeding is compatible with suffocation, it does not have to be that way, then it will turn out to the bottom of the barrel. The fact that omofuma was not pregnant, did not press a chair and did not die of sudden infant death should also be clear to a layman. But in the opinion this is cited as one of many evidences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12355	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[15:35:28]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12378	We now come to the brief debate on the request made by Mr Dr. Cap, the Sports Committee for reporting on Mr Mag, Amendment No 523/A (E). Mayer, colleagues and colleagues concerning the immediate reimbursement of a written report to the National Council on the operations relating to the planned stadium construction in Klagenfurt until 30. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12413	Mr President. High house! We were able to conduct a remarkable discussion in the public about the planned construction of the EM stadium in Klagenfurt and the way in which the award culture for this building is to expire in the award commission. This was well known to be public. The 2008 European Football Championship is not a small one, it will be one of the world's biggest sporting events. Austria and Switzerland have been promised the holding of this EM. These are major economic dimensions: more than 6,000 jobs, billions of television viewers are expected to add value to it. That's why it's a very important sporting event. I believe that the football enthusiasts in Austria, but also those who are interested in the fact that tourism, the economy and advertising are doing something for Austria, are particularly affected if there is an argument in a way that raises a wealth of questions that we do not think have answered. That is why, I believe, it is right to submit a motion for a resolution here, in which we call on the Chancellor to present a report to the National Council on all the points, events and statements in this context, so that Parliament too is informed. I have to say: That's also about taxpayers – it's good too! – in a dimension of €33.7 million. I emphasize: Fees! That's why you have the right to ask for a little bit. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What do you say to Dr. Ambrozy?]] – You can then demonstrate your knowledge by acting for the establishment of an investigation committee. You can prove that after all, you're going to speak anyway. At any rate, everything seems to work in Vienna and Salzburg and Innsbruck – not in Klagenfurt! One day suddenly a document appears in the “Kärntner Week” where the offers are communicated to the public. This is a very strange process! I have to say: We have often experienced that public contracts have been awarded, but the fact that this is still being sent to the local newspaper is remarkable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] – It’s not going to be Hineingefllogen, anyone must have given it there! You could even develop your sniffinase in Carinthia and find out who that was down there! That wouldn't be so bad! In any event, it would be interesting how these six offers entered the “Carinthian Week” at the beginning of February 2005. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] The reaction was remarkable when ÖFB President Stickler says – I quote – “This sabotage act was made by arsonists in a scale, as we do not often experience in sports policy.” Mr Sport State Secretary, it would be interesting what you have to say about this! I quote: “There, people have brought something inconceivable into motion – there was an attempt to blow something into the air suddenly.” Supplement: “The clock ticks!” There's talking about a phrase that you're literally cold over your back! What's going on? Who wanted to prevent this publication? Maybe it was the order: Who's best bidder? Who's second, who's third bidder? Is it not the way in which those responsible in the Carinthian government, especially the head of state, may have presented themselves? That would be something where it would be worth asking questions and answering them as well, because if the whole thing goes into the air, then it looks quite sad with the European Championship, I have the impression. At least Mr. Gattermann, the responsible for the Austrian playgrounds, says. Mr Sport State Secretary! I hope you will comment on this. In any case, there must be something lazy, otherwise you wouldn't eventually choose this path. But this is how it continues in this debate: ==References== February, the head of the Office for Internal Affairs of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs of Martin Kreutner confirmed the presentation of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten), according to which the Ministry of the Interior has written and determined a statement of concern for the suspicion of party financing, abuse of office and infringements of contract law. You have to imagine that! These accusations are not small things. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is the result?]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, We can then talk about the Persian culture of the Ministry of Justice. Let's go on there. After all, there are investigations, ad against unknown! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you doubt justice?]] Mr Kreutner once again addressed the issue of party financing in the “ZiB 1”. – You should really look at exactly what this is like with various promotions, advertisements from construction companies, at Kärntner football clubs and so on. You should take a look at this! I don't know, you're gonna know better, you're from Carinthia. I only notice that these suspicions have been expressed, and I think that you should take a stand. Mr. Pöchhacker of the Porr said on 7 February. February compared to the ‘standard’: ‘The best bidder identified is clearly not desired.’ He thinks that Gattermann and Eisenköck feel pressured in the commission of award. All this is being carried out publicly. I'm not quoting any secret protocols. I am trying to remind you of what has happened so that you can have a bit of a decision-making basis if you are respectful of or against the motion for a resolution. Then, head of state Jörg Haider came to the plan and said that it would have been a mistake if one had given it to a federal authority that one should have made up of it in the country – in itself. ==References====External links== Jörg Haider said that Mr. Gattermann should resign. So: Gattermann gone! Why a federal authority? And so on. Then suddenly comes the criticism of the ÖVP! Jörg Haider: “As a result of the power of the ÖVP, democracy has come into serious danger. No one is safe anymore, everyone is afraid to be monitored unless he has the black party book.” What do you think of it as a liberal group when one of your great historical leaders opens up such accusations to this House? [[pointing towards the ÖVP]] - Look at that. They're bored and probably saying: Oh, my God, I know my phone's being heard, that's nothing special! I'll be sent the protocol at most by Minister Prokop. – I ask you: What do you think? It would be interesting to note once again why the head of state Haider calls for a parliamentary investigation committee to discover the existing arbitrariness of the investigating officials of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The Lower Austrian head of state says it's all crazy. He'd push this into a medical corner. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Is this a national captain's round now?]] ==References== February – on Valentine's Day – Landesführer Haider reported again and said that 32 high-ranking personalities in Carinthia, including Martin Strutz, Chief of Hypo-Chair Wolfgang Kulter, had been illegally heard. “The strizzis in Vienna had become nervous,” said Haider, according to APA of 14. ==References== I want to know: How does he know all this with the hearing? Knowing that would also be very interesting. Someone must have told him that. He won't just have heard it cracking on the phone, but something must have been there. What's going on? By the way, who are the “Strizzis”? That's an interesting choice of words. What does “Strizzi” mean? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] This will once become a political term, which was introduced into the discussion: “The Strizzis in Vienna”. The following is: The accusation that the BIA is something like the securitates suddenly comes! Jörg Haider becomes quite historical, takes a bond and speaks of “securitate” – an office for the persecution of politically unloving elements in Austria. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What's going on? I'd like to see this discussed! What about “securitates ”? Is there that now? Aren't they? How does he know? What does the FPÖ say about this? What does the ÖVP say about this? Haider announces more than 70 questions to the Ministry of the Interior. Then he comes to the conclusion that we also come to: The ÖVP has gained too much power in recent years. - I'll give him the right, that's right. The other one, please, yells for clarification. But then it will be stopped! The Ministry of Justice suddenly comes here and says: The whole thing is not substantial! – What does that mean? What is a substrate in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice? All these are phaneble formulations, fights, accusations. That's how it goes, you can say: This is a single Sodom and Gomorrah, what is there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] You could continue this list. For example, in today’s edition of the “Kurier”, two members of the commission are quoted, who say that a Strabag employee made the statement: An insanity, we pay 400 000 € to Carinthia, and then we don't get the project! Mr. Secretary-General Scheuch! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Yes, here!]] Come on. Get out of here and take a position on this!- Oh, my God! Think of the tradition of education of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. How many times do we have Jörg Haider, Ewald Stadler and how they can listen to all those who said: Enlighten it, investigative committee! So the two of them would have already been “placed ” at the speaker’s desk. There I am the restraint in person. The two of them would have been put here if they had all this to quote here. I had to quote that, and I can only tell you: It is really inconceivable what it is! If we take it seriously, we must set up a committee of inquiry, we must accept the motion for a resolution and there must be a report from the Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12570	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12592	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Yes, Mr Cap, in one we certainly agree – and that was the introduction of your speech: The European Football Championship is the third largest sporting event in the world and one of the most important projects for Austria in the near future! We all have each other together on the 12th. On December 22, 2002 we were pleased to receive the award for this sporting event, and we must make every effort to ensure that we also conduct this sporting event in Austria and Switzerland. The play-out of documents of the awarding commission or of these awarding results was certainly not in order; it also examines the prosecutor's office. I am sure there will soon be a result of this examination. There is a sincere contract for the establishment of the Klagenfurt stadium between the federal government, the country of Carinthia, the city of Klagenfurt and the ÖFB and the UEFA. The federal government, the country and the city want to fulfil this treaty, and this means that the timetable will be implemented quickly. ==References== This year, the award commission will decide who will build the stadium. The 2008 project – Football European Championship must not be a threat, because it is important for Austria, for sport and for the economy. For Austria and for the people in this country, the European Football Championship is a real highlight. We, the sports spokespersons of all parties, are, of course, fully behind this project across party borders, and we also know that the economic and sports policy impulses are very important for the country. In the field of sport alone – and this must be stressed – the Euro 2008 “Challenge 08” will invest € 1.8 million for youth. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: This is not the subject!]] This is unique in Austria, and that is very encouraging. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Euro 2008 brings us economic effects, value added effects in the amount of € 87 million, 6 600 jobs, effective promotions in the advertising market of € 92 million and an effect on tourism promotion. – An important project! It is important to take advantage of the opportunity we are used to in sports together, then we can do it on 7th. June 2008 everyone celebrate a great opening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12634	The next speaker, Mrs Mag, spoke. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12671	I would ask you to take this call back – in the sense of political culture and thought before speaking! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think you'll allow me a preliminary remark, a preliminary remark that you probably have to agree to inside of you: It is very painful for Carinthian Members of all political groups and above all politically worrying that Carinthia, in particular Klagenfurt, is here in the House – read the minutes of the last four years! – should always be mentioned when it comes to millions of tax-deasters such as the sea stage when it comes to unemployment record rates when it comes to non-internationality when it comes to competition. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: From whom? - Of you raptors! As the bad guy thinks, so is he!]] – As a Member of Parliament, I regret this more than anything else, because it did not deserve the people in Carinthia nor the men and women in Klagenfurt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You were even better in the Federal Council!]] Now to the Lord absent Federal Chancellor! Apart from the fact that his absence does not always bother me, his present absence is symptomatic of the role of the Federal Chancellor in this stadium affair. And Mrs. Scheucher?- Oh, my God! The sports spokesperson of the ÖVP, Haubner, did a solidarity act and spoke for them. Col. Elisabeth Scheucher is Klagenfurt, knows very well in this matter, and I assume that she would have made her statement different from just talking about it in general. The fact is that the mayor of the state capital Klagenfurt – the white colleague Scheucher as well as I – visited the Federal Chancellor for an appointment three years ago and did not even get an answer. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: How do you know?]] – Because he is the Klagenfurt mayor, I am committed to the interests of Klagenfurt and even support him. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] The Secretary of State then – and he has made a fair effort – has shown mercy to him in the truest sense of the word. However, it would have been the task of the Federal Chancellor to cooperate conceptually here three years ago instead of silently and to hide. Second point: In April and in September 2003, I tried to put an end to the German Chancellor's silence with precise requests. I have asked exactly what it looks like to project, implement, federal funds and the like – and also the Finance Minister, you can read this. To say it briefly: The answers were incompetent, nebulous, non-binding and inconsistency; the Secretary of State knows this, and in this case he cannot do anything for it at all. Next point: What's this about? – In a short time: to make an old dilapidated football stadium in Klagenfurt-Waidmannsdorf, the giant chance for Klagenfurt, Klagenfurt the venue for the 2008 European Football Championship, joint application, joint successful application, Klagenfurt gets the award. – An opportunity for the image of Carinthia, an opportunity for the city of Klagenfurt and a great future project! The SPÖ's position was always clear: cheap – not cheap – functional, competitive, international criteria according to and as a new building at the old site. – That was the position of SPÖ Klagenfurt, SPÖ Carinthia, the Federal SPÖ six years ago. You have not even discussed this, you have not even pushed this issue to the side. If we still want to save this project, you will need to support all these positions! What have ÖVP, especially FPÖ and Haider – not all FPÖler – done in that case, Mr. State Secretary – been doing for two years? – Monthly press conferences; always a sponsor, a project operator from the private sector has been pulled out of the box, and for two years the Carinthian population has been precipitated, the thing would not cost a tax euro. – For two years Lug and Trug, for one year – and colleague Scheuch knows it – we have tried to research. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Take this back!]] Air and trust! There was a Swiss investor – a Swiss citizen, not the colleague Schweitzer – and there was neither a postal address nor an address. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The sweater is an investor?]] That means that the investor finally only passed the name. To come to the end: ÖVP and FPÖ responsibility; also mayor Scheucher, but in particular the head of state and the Federal Chancellor – who is silent and is not there; he knows why – at least have the responsibility to bear the responsibility for this disaster so far, and if this project is implemented, they will also bear responsibility for those millions of euros that will incur process costs, process costs and construction delays. I think it's enough of the ÖVP and FPÖ owners, it's finally time for a chance of our capital, finally time for a chance of Carinthia. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] Stop the scandals – to laugh, Mr Scheuch, there is nothing at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12795	Mrs Mag. Trunk, for your choice of words “Lug and Trug” I give you a call for order. [[Abg. To the Rules of Procedure, please!]] Mr Delegater Gradwelt has spoken on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12832	Mr President. High house! In the interests of a balanced presidency, I would also like to ask Mr Scheuch, if you have a call for an order for this expression, for his interlocutory call “Your tailor”. I assume that you are in the same position in your presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12863	Ladies and gentlemen, I have had this replicated by my co-chairman. He didn't hear that. I will be given the Minutes – if so, I share your opinion. Mr Mag, State Secretary, has been reported by the Government Bank. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12887	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that a larger number of problems have already occurred around the new stadium of Klagenfurt, but mainly because of the fact that an original commitment from the city to build this stadium was difficult to comply with. It took a very long time for us to reach a common agreement, especially with regard to the financing and location of the stadium. It is likely that the argument that the Klagenfurt Stadium, as you have just said, is completely desolat, will no longer be playable for a long time, that the city of Klagenfurt will eventually need a new stadium, and that, in the course of the European Championship orientation, there is a unique opportunity to finance only one third of this stadium because two thirds of the federal government and country are being imposed. After this agreement had been reached, the City of Klagenfurt decided to refer the award procedure to an awarding commission. This award commission was composed as follows: three representatives of the city, three representatives of the country, a representative from Innsbruck – because there is also a stadium to adapt – a representative from Salzburg, for the same reason, and four representatives of the federal government, at the head of the Austrian Institute for School and Sports Centres, Dipl.-Ing. Gattermann, as chairman of the award commission. This commission of awarding began to work. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: For the ÖVP and FPÖ!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] One, as it seems, relatively uninteresting subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12939	Mr State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12954	This Commission has started to work, and it was a question of following the federal procurement law, Mr Cap, a sports friend. And the Federal Procurement Act provides that projects are submitted and these submitted projects will then be subject to an interim assessment. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] The first problem arose, namely that the chairman of the awarding commission knew about the prices at a time when he should not have done so. This circumstance was taken by Landeshuptmann Haider for the purpose of allowing award experts to judge whether the award can continue, although there is a violation of the Federal Procurement Act. There have been three opinions; one commissioned by the city of Klagenfurt, firm Quendler, one commissioned by the country, law firm Sundström, one commissioned by the federal law firm Wolf Theiss. It has been found in all three opinions – I am only talking about facts, Mr Gaál – that it has been found in all three opinions that it is a violation of the prices before the technical-architectonic assessment of the projects. [[Abg. Gaál: Not in the sense of the FPÖ!]] In an opinion, all bidders were listed, including the prizes, and this is the opinion commissioned by the city of Klagenfurt about Quendler. Parts of this opinion were then published in the “Carinthian Week. ” No one knows from whom the “Kärntner Week” is handed over. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's supposed to be examined!]] But on the basis of these opinions and after consulting the experts Aicher and Holaubek, the responsible parties, and here primarily the head of state of Carinthia and the mayor of the city of Klagenfurt, have decided to continue the award – with a requirement: that the chairman of the award commission has no right to vote in the future and no longer should exercise any voting right. An intermediate sequence, must be said, of course, means nothing at all as to the award in the final effect, because the contract law... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: All Holler!]] – You have no idea at all, colleague! I would like to make it clear to you what the award order in Austria provides. Let me tell you this before you intercede without any knowledge! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Before you do this again, get to know each other! Perhaps you are able to tell the plenary what "LBO" means, Mr President, because it is only about the last sacrifice. This load was offered best last week by all, and the award commission will now be on hand. An interim arrangement means nothing but the possibility for the individual project promoters to improve in further bidder discussions, both in the architectural and technical fields, as well as in terms of the price. This means that the publication has actually not happened as great a thing as one wanted to believe in and for himself in the public. The fact is, however, that the chairman of the awarding commission, who obviously met colleagues Pilz from whatever point of view, passed on information from the third and fourth hands in order to do very little and really endanger the award. I owe this to the chairman of the Awarding Commission, and I owe it to Peter Pilz: that they make from nothing a theatre that actually endangers the awarding process and may lead to the danger of the European Championship. That is not what we all want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But that Peter Pilz has not yet been aware of this, he has made it clear to the public in so far as he has said that Mr. Landeshuptmann insists on a free-handed award. Mr Pilz! The head of state has nothing to forgive! [[Abg. Gaál: Mr State Secretary, sit down!]] The head of state is, like the federal government, representative of the promoter. How I am representative of the Funder's Federation, he is representative of the Funder Land. If anyone is allowed to forgive freely, that's the builder, and that's the mayor of the city of Klagenfurt. I hope I was able to contribute something to the investigation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13063	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13111	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Trunk, it is already fascinating if you stand out here and echo that Klagenfurt and Carinthia are so often mentioned in a negative context here in the House. Perhaps you should also do the work once and see who mentions Klagenfurt and Carinthia so often negatively, who takes our common home so often negatively into the mouth, who is constantly trying to speak worse by grumbling and bad-making than it is. [[Abg. May. Trunk: This is absolutely false! That's polemic!]] You're going to come up with it: In 100.0 percent of the words in this House the red and the green speak badly about Carinthia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: Inconceivable!]] If you're talking about Carinthia often being made bad, Mrs. Trunk, I have to tell you that there's only a word message from a non-SPÖ mandatar who has complained about abuses in Carinthia, and that was my speech a few weeks ago when I suggested that you should perhaps take better care of the conditions in the women's house where there are mobbing accusations where there are inconsistencies where there are all kinds of accusations that are published in the newspapers. I mean, it would be more reasonable to take care of it. On the awarding of the Klagenfurt Stadium, Mrs Colleague: Be sure this stadium will be built! The European Championship will be held and will take place in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You are writing in your motion for a resolution – that is interesting, I quote literally; first of all, a lot of reasons and then –: “This is not only about the Austrian reputation, but also about an enormous added value for Austria, which has now been threatened.” [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who are the Strizzis?]] It is reassuring for me to see that all of this was not important to you when you criticized the latest changes to the EIA law. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who are the Strizzis?]] You just said: International events are not important to us, we do not need international events! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who said that?]] We don't need that! Dear Mrs. Trunk, dear Dr. Puswald, Dr. Wittmann, Mr Mag. Maier, Mrs Muttonen, Mr Mag. Posch, who's not even here today! I have to say: You cannot preach water in the morning and drink wine in the afternoon! I mean, we need both the legal opportunity to carry out such events and the procurement directives that have not been broken here in any case. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who are the Strizzis?]] In conclusion: In your motion for a resolution we are talking about suspected of party financing and illegal interference in the procurement procedure. “As one insider reports to the media, it’s just about too much money.” [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who heard?]] Ladies and gentlemen! All these accusations, who has listened – to clarify this, would probably break the framework of this negotiating point, because this is a motion for a resolution to clarify what has happened in the award. Dr. Cap! If, in your indifference to the agenda, you have confused the item on the agenda and your speech, which may actually be on the subject of the Committee of Inquiry, has already been made, because you may feel even less anxious later to make yourself here and discuss the real problems, I am sorry. [[Abg. Cap: Who are the Strizzis?]] This is something else: not a committee of inquiry, but a resolution that has nothing to do with the Committee of Inquiry. Your thematic error You don't burden me. Better prepare, read, think, speak!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13256	Mr Pilz is the last speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13277	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the statements of the last days and weeks, I assume that the Social Democratic Party, the Greens and the Freedom Party today want to set up a joint investigation committee on the so-called stadium affair in Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes, yes!]] We will not vote on it until the end of the agenda, but the statements have been clearly and repeatedly confirmed by the leaders of all three parties. [[Abg. Neudeck: But after your speech we will think differently!]] What about the whole story? – At the beginning there is not sport, but a freedom problem in Carinthia: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Against the Strizzis!]] The Carinthian FPÖ is advocating. It must already pledge public party grants for the future. The Carinthian head of state and head of the Freedom Party takes money from two companies: from a Dutch construction company € 600 000, from the STRABAG € 300 000. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Is everything wrong! Even the functions are wrong!]] Both want to build the stadium. Two stages cannot even let Jörg Haider build in times like these in Klagenfurt. What's he doing? – This testifies to a Graz architect in his statement in front of the Office for Internal Affairs in the advertisement: He brings together the two construction companies STRABAG and HBM. Then one thing is fixed: In order for the payments to be expected, the two must be commissioned in their working group. The offer will be opened in the Commission for the first time in mid-November of the previous year, and for the surprise of all, the STRABAG with its Dutch counterpart is not at the front, but the company Porr, with a possible insurmountable advantage. From there, Jörg Haider tries everything to get his desired company, the STRABAG, back into the race and business under Hans Peter Haselsteiner – first with legal methods. Later, illegal methods are used – by whoever else – to destroy the award procedure and to enable it to find another way to give this business to the STRABAG. The Procuratorate examines who is behind these illegal trials. [[Abg. Scheibner: I can't do that!]] [[Call the ÖVP “Illegale Methoden”!]] Of interest it seems clear, but it is a matter of criminal justice to clarify in detail. [[Abg. Scheibner: They already did it!]] The first question is how to proceed. We have now reached a point where the joint strategy of Jörg Haider and Hans Peter Haselsteiner leads to the fact that the European Championship in Austria is under acute threat, because head of state Jörg Haider is obviously unable to fulfil a private business obligation to STRABAG. The question now is whether to threaten the European Championship in Austria because the Carinthian FPÖ and Jörg Haider have entered into commitments to a construction company. [[Abg. Scheibner: What kind of commitments, Mr. Cot?]] – This is the political question to be clarified here! [[Call the SPÖ: It's right!]] Hans Peter Hazelsteiner now signals that he would object if he – which is quite imaginable – did not receive the award. This will put the European Championship in final jeopardy due to construction dates. That means there's a threat in the room: Despite the support from Haider for short-term Carinthian construction contractors, the idea is to take the European Championship as a hostage to get into business. Ladies and gentlemen! If that's not to be investigated, then what? Of course, the hearings are also to be examined. I would like to know why Jörg Haider has 32 Carinthian personalities – this great number alone amazements! – who heard cracking in the line. Who was it? Who's been listening? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Strizzis!]] Why is there no hint? Where are the strizzis hiding? In which party do we find the Strizzis? Maybe the strizzis are those who say that the strizzis... and so on! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lauter Strizzis!]] All of this has to be clarified by a committee of inquiry. Thus serious accusations against an important unit of the Ministry of the Interior, namely the Office for Internal Affairs, cannot simply be raised, and then one forgets it again. No, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Even if all of this could have been invented freely: We want to investigate this! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] That is why I hope that I will now be taken from this pult out of the outside and over the nails in a few hours' time when the vote on the committee of inquiry is taken: I hope that not three parties, but four parties, will agree to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13476	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Cap's request, ladies and gentlemen, to the Sports Committee for reporting on Amendment No 523/A (E) by Mr Mag. Mayer, colleagues and colleagues on the reimbursement of a report to the National Council on the operations relating to the planned stadium construction in Klagenfurt until 30. ==References== Those who apply for this request for time-limitation, I ask for a sign of approval. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. [[16:16:58]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13518	We now come to the brief debate on Mrs Magistrate's request. Lunacek, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the motion for a resolution 86/A by Mr Öllinger, colleagues and colleagues on a federal law amending the Code on Victim Care. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes in this debate, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Lunacek. Please, Mrs. Colleague. Your speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13552	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I start with a quote that most of you have recently heard here in this house – not in this hall, but in this house –: “Today’s generation, today’s generation, does not easily understand why much has not been made clear and clear from the outset: the actions of the Nazi expulsion, expropriation, murder of Jewish citizens, but also of the sick, homosexuals, Roma and Sinti, by people of other political and religious beliefs, whose activities have contributed so much to the formation of our Austrian culture.” Who's this quote of? – You remember: ==References====External links== On the occasion of the opening of the commemorative celebrations on the occasion of the end of the Second World War, the signing of the State Treaty et cetera in the Reichsratshalle. Like many others, I was amazed at the fact that the Chancellor also addressed and expressed the recognition of the homosexual victims of National Socialism, because in today's generation – and I am counting on it – there are many who do not understand why the group of homosexual victims who had to carry the pink angle, and also the so-called asocial group who had to carry the black angle, have not yet found any recognition in the victim care law. You know that. . We had these debates more often in the National Council, but also in the Committee. There is no understanding of this, ladies and gentlemen. That is why today once again a deadline application for our request, in which the victim care law is amended in such a way that finally – 60 years after the end of the Nazi regime! – the homosexuals and the so-called asocial victims also find recognition in this law. I would like to draw your attention to the history of this public non-recognition: Already in the last legislative period there was a request from us on this subject. At that time, the argument of the government groups was still that this was about legal continuity. Homosexuality was finally banned before the Nazi era and was subsequently committed as a crime. So why blame or acknowledge those who sat in prison during the Nazi period because of their sexual orientation? This argument has probably not seen and realized that it was probably something else to be detained during the Nazi period than before or after that. There was a threat of being murdered, being delivered to the concentration camp, or, whatever happened to many, being killed in the concentration camp. Many have also argued that you might have to recognize regular criminals as victims. Ladies and gentlemen! Homosexuality has been no crime in Austria for more than 30 years. In 1971 the High House abolished this – late enough, but still! So that was the argument in the last legislative period. A victim who was in prison because of his homosexuality in the Nazi era said that he would not have tried to make restitutions at that time – I quote – because I was told that this was a criminal offence that would have been punishable even under Austrian law. - Quote. So he didn't try, because he already knew, homosexuality wasn't like to be seen – neither before nor after – so she was considered a crime. In addition, these people were not counted as a replacement time for the pension, either for their prison period or for the time in the concentration camp – if they survived them. During the post-war period, there were a number of letters from pension insurance institutions and also from the Social Ministry that these times were not recognized. I remember that SS members who could not be found war crimes were very likely to be charged with the time for the pension. There were individuals who survived with the pink angle in the concentration camp and who in the 1950s and 1960s applied to be recognized according to the victim care law. In one case the pink was confused with the red angle. When one came to the point that he had carried the pink angle, the recognition was reacknowledged to him. The argument put forward by some in this legislative period – in the Committee a year ago – that those who were still alive would anyway be recognized if they tried to do so may vote for now, but in the 1950s and 1960s this did not apply. – Not yet in the nineties: There is also one who has made a request. In the first instance, it was rejected on the grounds that there was no legal basis for its sexual orientation in the victim care law. He went to the second instance. – Unfortunately, he has not experienced the judgment anymore. Another group, to which my colleague, Mr Oellinger, will go even further, are the so-called asocial groups. The Nazis were doing something like preventing crime: People who were socially unadapted were classified as social persons, but also those whose sexual behavior was not pleasing. This included gay men and lesbian women. They are still not recognised in the Victim Care Act. In this legislative period, we also submitted an application – already in March 2003. - That's the one who's back to you now. There was a first reading, and more than a year ago, in February 2004, there was also a debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. – The subject has been postponed. [[Abg. Silhavy: How keep everything!]] - How many things do you think about what's happening here? It was interesting, however, because in the government negotiations that the Greens conducted with the ÖVP in 2003, this recognition in the victim welfare law would have been possible at once by the ÖVP. Suddenly not again last year. I am curious to hear from you now whether you are planning this now that the Federal Chancellor has also recognized the homosexual victims of National Socialism a month and a half ago in his speech in the Reichsratshalle. I hope you are at last ready not to continue refusing recognition of this last group, which has not yet been recognised. Many of those who have experienced this time are no longer living anyway. It is also about setting up a political-symbolic act and saying, yes, you were victims, too, and we recognize it. In the Committee on Social Affairs last year, it was also argued that not all groups should be called where we would be going – I am now exaggerating a little – if we were all to call them. Those who are still alive can make the request anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the way to deal with victims of National Socialism! As has already been said: This is a political, symbolic statement: Yes, you were victims, and we recognize that. It is also true that the victim associations did not want to recognize this group for many years. This has changed. I think they too now stand by the fact that there have been these victims and that they should be recognized. I also recall that in 2003 the Historical Commission – set up by the government – stated in its final report and also criticised the fact that, after the ban on homosexuality was repealed in 1971, no retroactive involvement of the group in the OFG took place and that, on the basis of formal legal considerations, even the detention in the concentration camp, which could not be considered as a legal measure, was interpreted as a punishment under Austrian law. Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time that at last – 60 years after the end of this cruel regime – the last groups of victims, for which the official recognition of this republic is not yet given everywhere – they are included in the National Fund Act, but not in the Victim Care Act, are finally granted. I recall the German Chancellor's speech, which I quoted at the beginning, in which he also admitted that there has been a sluggish discussion of the past in Austria, and I think it is really high time for this step. Therefore, we shall bring this deadline application with a period of 30 days. ==References====External links== ==References== Anniversary of the liberation of the Mauthausen concentration camp. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If we decide on this request until then and therefore want to have this recognition in fact, then this deadline must be respected, otherwise it will no longer pass through the plenary session of the National Council and through the Federal Council. – That would be a shame for this Republic, ladies and gentlemen! I hope there's your agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13619	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Tancsits. His speaking time, like the speaking time of all others, is 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13645	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My group will not agree to this request for a deadline, and I would like to explain this to you as follows. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Go!]] As the first point – that is certainly not the most important, but you should also know – I would like to mention the formal in the discussion. I don't think it makes sense with the 30. In March, it was not possible for the Green Group to end a period of time, even if it was not possible, despite the offer of the government fractions before the 19th century. In April, an appointment was made for the Committee at all. – So far to the formal seriousness of the discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Second, ladies and gentlemen: I can underline and acknowledge much of what Mrs Lunacek has now said in the sense of importance and also in the matter that is being created. I ask you, however, to also acknowledge that our path, as far as it is possible at all, to make compensations, to recognise social security periods, to pay off materially something which cannot be paid off anyway, is not the more morally bad thing about collective recognition and a change of laws which the legislator made in 1947 with the best intention and very quickly after the end of the National Socialist regime. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that you should know – in so far as it is likely that we are holding this debate not only in committee, but also in plenary session – that in all the discussions about the current request or the predecessors from the previous legislative period, we have and have had the commitment of the Minister of Social Affairs to solve each individual case, someone should be denied recognition here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Therefore, we will not reject the request, but we will continue to wait, and you are still invited to nominate us cases where, on the basis of Austrian laws – I also recall the National Fund Act – and on the basis of the administration of the federal government today, victims are being denied recognition. Ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, the question of individual recognition and reparation, as far as possible and with all previous restrictions, is clearly addressed to a collective recognition of the former. Mrs. Colleague! You yourself have said that it is a symbolic and political act – that is happening, and that is what happened. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Yes, and this is also important in politics, you know!]] This has also been done by the National Fund Act and by many recognitions – you yourself, Mrs Collaborative, have twice quoted the Federal Chancellor in your speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] I personally believe that as long as you do not convince me when dealing with a victim case on the contrary, it is absolutely not necessary to correct the heroic legislator elected in this Parliament in November 1945 subsequently with the knowledge of today where this is not necessary. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: That's what we do in the past! Even younger laws!]] I believe that this also needs to be said in the light of 2005 when we also have to remember those who have rebuilt this Republic on a democratic and legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13730	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Leutner. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13751	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tancsits, I believe that this matter cannot be about acts of grace of a ministry, but only about clear legal provisions. The Green Group's request to do so today, according to which the victim welfare law should also be amended with legal amendments. Ladies and gentlemen! My group can vote in favour of this Green request. In the past, we too have already taken up this issue specifically with a proposal. He was, I think, right away speaking of what Mr Oellinger has brought in. Mr Lunacek has already referred to the reasons. Thousands of homosexual men were imprisoned in the concentration camps of the Third Reich. Very well-founded estimates have shown that tens of thousands of them were killed by the National Socialists. It is also legally correct that, although this victim group is taken into account in the National Fund Act together with those who are socially persecuted, recognition in the Victim Care Act itself is still not given. There is a second point I would like to make in this debate: We have already included in the SPÖ's proposal the subject of national socialist forced sterilization. Ladies and gentlemen! Between 1940 and 1945, in the NS period, several thousand people were forced to sterilize, also in Austria. We, too, therefore, feel that it makes sense to expressly mention the forced sterilization in the victim welfare law. I know that there is already the concept of disability in this context, but it is also here, I believe, about legal clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: Indeed, it is only very few people – we all know – who fall within the scope of the proposed legislative changes. It is also often true that victims will not report until the legal provisions relating to their claims are very clear. This is a phenomenon of practice in the area we are talking about today. I believe that the government and all parties should act today. It would be a late reparation for great victims who were carried out there. In the future, as a victim of the political persecution within the meaning of the Code of Victim Care, all those who, for political reasons, for reasons of origin, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, on the grounds of disability, or at that time, as it has been said, have been socially persecuted, at the time when we are talking about, were so brutally persecuted. Only about these people – my Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember this again – is it possible. I really do not see a real occasion today – otherwise we often have controversial issues, Mr Tancsits – that not all four parties should be given a back today. It would be a late recognition for victims who have been performed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13804	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. 5 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13825	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The purely formal reason Mr Tanscits has already mentioned is that I would like to go into the depths of the current debate. Mr. Dr. Leutner, you should not forget that since 1947, in cases of forced sterilization and euthanasia, it has been rehabilitated and fully compensated for due to the origin in Austria. You should also remember that in 1995, especially in the time of a government in which a colleague led the social section of your group, the question of the disabled was also resolved positively. Ladies and gentlemen! I am already a little fossil here and I was also involved in the 1995 debate when we extended the Code of Victim Care. I then negotiated the National Fund for the Victims and Forced Workers for the First Black and Blue Federal Government together with the President of the National Bank Schaumayer and have therefore been busy with this matter for more than a year and a half. I have always been proud that with the National Fund for the Victims of National Socialism, we have rehabilitated all the shifts, no matter what the motivations, as the first democratically elected parliament in Austria in 1945, in November, for all judgments – immediately, clearly, clearly and without any difference –. I think that's particularly important. That is why I wonder who it is useful to have a success that democracy in Austria has achieved ten years ago, evaluate itself again and question itself and thus get back into the debate internationally. In 1945, Austria repealed all the acts of the Nazi era and declared null and void, thus condemning the situation of the victims, who were still present in parallel at that time, as victims and perpetrators in that Republic, at a time when there were difficult human gaps between the individual groups and groups in the society at that time, more satisfactoryly solved than the Federal Republic of Germany and many others in the time of a totalitarian regime. We made a clear regulation with the National Fund for the Victims of National Socialism in 1995 and rehabilitated all groups. Why should we rehabilitate a certain group again? I was there in 1995 when the first exhibition of those persecuted for religious reasons went through Austria – I was allowed to open this exhibition as the third president of the National Council at the time – about the members of the religious community of Jehovah’s Witnesses, which is now recognized today, who were also killed to hundreds. At the time, I was allowed to take the decisive step, together with Mr Ofner, in establishing the Sinti and Roma people's group and Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen! I have been working for four and a half years as a Minister of Social Affairs on this issue. Today, I have asked the officials concerned by my ministry, who, on questions of the past, has always been unbureaucratic, comprehensive and, as I believe, with a great deal of understanding, which is what our questions are about whether it is at all still The people concerned from these groups have provided, as we have made several calls in the relevant newspapers, in newspapers of the victim associations and in all the other means available to us. There hasn't been a case to this day. I am grateful to you, Mrs Lunacek, for the fact that you correctly presented it in your speech, namely that the cases of rejection occurred in the early 1990s. In my term of office, no one has been rejected, on the contrary, there have finally been rehabilitations where there was another view in the 1990s. That is why I do not see the need for deadlines. However, I see the need for us to finally live up to this time and to those who were then victims this year, when we were doing something for those who have not yet been discussed, except in a discussion in the Federal Council, namely the thousands of women who still have no pension.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13889	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Oellinger. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13911	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I do not wish to disapprove of your commitment to certain groups of victims; that is not the point. But if you say, We have made a call, and there has been no one reporting, then allow me, Mr President, to ask where you have made the call. Where? In the magazine “Mohnruf ”? Faith You really know that the public learns that you want the Federal Government to take a different attitude towards homosexuals, to as social victims of National Socialism, to deserters? Faith You really are that if I reach the 5 000 or 10,000 already recognized victims in a publication – as well as it is meant to be – but certainly no longer, if I make this call in such a publication, the public already knows what it is all about? Faith You really do, that force-sterilized – I have tried here in this hall to deal with it under this point – the decades not only suffered, but also had to take a profound incision in their psyche and their physics in the transmitted and literal sense, then go here and say: After all, this republic recognizes me!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you know what it means for these groups to have been persecuted or persecuted by National Socialism? I'll give you an example. When I was here in 1997, I thank colleagues from all the political groups who supported me at the time, all of whom supported this. – the requests made to the psychiatrist Heinrich Gross resulted in a television coverage, a ZiB. And shortly after that ZiB, a Mr. Gross called me. I thought: Na servus, now the psychiatrist's calling! – It was not the psychiatrist, it was the victim! There is also a Mr. Gross who was a victim, who has now also written a book, which was held here in Vienna as an asocialist at the mirror. At the time, he was social because he was a youth and left a care facility, not only once, but twice, three times. That's why they put him in the mirror. But that – he told me on the phone – what shook me the most was his remark to which he felt obliged to me – I am It really happened to me, I'm not telling you how I happened –: Something has also become out of me and out of my boy too! One, who by the Nazis as an asocial at the mirror with injections by Dr. Big and so on, it seems 60 years after all this is over to justify and say to me: Something has become out of me and from my children. You know what that's for? – For that we have done nothing in this Republic, but also nothing to work with the “social” – between quotation marks. It is. They know just as well as I do that the terms are also enthusiastic in the Republic and are long spirited. And if even one who has managed to write a book about his terrible experiences has still felt offended and believes that he must justify himself – something has become out of him, although he was an a socialist, at least was considered an a socialist – then, I tell you, nothing is still in order. And if you say, Mr. Haupt, that they are inside the National Fund Act, please answer me the question: Then why aren't all the victims of National Socialism in the victim welfare law inside? Why there, but not there? That is discrimination, continuing discrimination that exists! I can't say, in the victim care law, there's only limited at once. Victims – but certainly not! –: The asocial were not victims, the homosexuals were not victims, the desertors were not victims either. – That’s discrimination! Make You don't think so. If you want to continue doing this, it's not your right, but it's your responsibility. But it is certainly not good and it is not a reprocessing of the National Socialist debt. I could quote from this book – there is in the Parliament library – who and what the Nazis considered to be social – terrifying, terrible! – and you might ask yourself the question of whether you think you don’t even catch yourself thinking that you actually think one or the other is actually not normal. [[The speaker keeps a book up to date]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] That's exactly where the problem starts, and that's why it takes a serious processing and non-discrimination of all the victims – and that's what is required.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13984	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Ulrike Lunacek, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on motion 86/A of Members of Parliament for a Federal Act amending the Code on Victim Care, a period of up to 30 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request for a deadline to be approved. – This is the minority. The deadline request is therefore not accepted but rejected. [[16:49:33]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14023	I will resume the negotiations on item 5 of the agenda. Mrs Binder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Your welcome time is 2 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14050	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will come back to amend the driving licence law and the road traffic regulations. This provides for a so-called pre-eminence system for the detection of so-called risk controllers and multiple perpetrators. This premise system is similar to that one that has been discussed for a very long time. It should be useful for this system to sanction handlebars and raise awareness. The fact, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that that variant of this system, which is decided by the government parties today, has many contradictions, and we believe that it is partly unfair and, above all, inconspicuous, because according to the present concept, it depends on the random order of the wrongs whether or which sanctions arise. That is why we cannot recognize a classification. Delicious, serious offences - as Mr Miedl has already said - are not part of this premise system, although it is precisely these offences that cause most accidents: [[Abg. Lens: 0.5! 0.8 we have long been...!]] A third of all fatalities are caused by these crimes. The question therefore arises, ladies and gentlemen, whether the objective of avoiding or reducing accidents can be achieved through this system. I think more diverse initiatives are needed: Transport safety measures need absolutely clear and transparent rules for all road users. This system does not offer this. To improve road safety, awareness-raising and training also contribute, including transport safety campaigns and adequate controls by the executive. The question arises as to who, when and where, uses and controls this system of excellence. In this sense, I believe that much remains to be done on the subject of road safety. However, we will not give our consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14084	Mr Kainz is now speaking. Desirable time: 4 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14106	Mr President. High house! Today's item on the agenda is aimed at a subject, with a focus on making a further contribution in order to increase road safety. It was all agreed in advance and also in the Committee's discussion – and I would like to underline the subject-matter discussion in the Committee on Transport on this matter, as in many other issues here from the speaker's desk. There is no doubt that the starting point is clear to everyone: According to statistics, 2,557 people each year in Austria, 852 of them in the course of motor vehicle accidents alone. This is where policy is called on to act – and we do! That is why I am glad that this item on the agenda, namely to further increase road safety by means of this priority system, is contributing to this. And politics, as in many other areas, has been discussing this issue for a very long time. The Federal Minister for Climate has already discussed the introduction of a pre-remark system or a point leader's license, as it is now called, but as in many other areas, it is this federal government, which also ends this discussion here and introduces a meaningful measure. We are going along a path that many European countries are going to go as well. Germany and France have already introduced a point-leading licence system, but countries such as Greece, Slovenia and Luxembourg are also planning the introduction of such a system. Especially risk drivers, who are mainly responsible for road accidents, should not only be removed from the market and punished – because that would be a possibility of action – we are going one step further: We want, above all, to launch a process of education and rethinking through training, and I think this is particularly important and good with this system. There were 876 fatalities in 2004 alone – luckily, these were already around 100 fewer than in previous years. The point driver's licence or the priority system is only one measure in the major transport safety package: Awareness-building measures, including the presence of executives along the road and driving safety training are measures that must run parallel to this. I am mayor of a community in Lower Austria, in Pfaffstätten, and only 14 days ago I offered my parish citizens a driving safety training, which was really accepted, the people were grateful for this offer. In my constituency I have two excellent facilities, namely, the ÖAMTC Driving Centre in Teesdorf, and the Driving Camp in Pachfurth. Today, young people are sitting here at the gallery who have participated in this driving safety training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] – Welcome! That is why I believe that this system, which we are planning to remove from the market, is a risk controller and, on the one hand, to take a measure through the fine, but on the other hand – and that is the decisive one – it is also a rethinking by training to initiate a process of education, the right way, because we are on a very right path in the sense of road safety. However, I am surprised that in this way, while SPÖ and Greens thought in advance that this was the right way – even in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser, it is in the introductory paragraph that a first step is finally taken in Austria too – but then do not go along with it. [[Abg. Mandak: It's too little for the greens!]] So if everyone thinks that the path is the right one, the step is the right one, then I would definitely expect to be implemented. And to this implementation, that is, to the decision, I also invite you. Also, the following is my heart – because there has always been a lot of discussion in advance and it seems to me that some have not really looked through the system –: Mr Glaser has said very well – and rightly so! – that alcohol-delicts are included in this premise system. [[Abg. Eder: From 0.5 to 0.8! From 0.8 Promille no longer!]] They are also included in the pre-mark system! What he didn't say was that the speed was mentioned. He didn't say that! – Yes, but alcohol is included in the premise system! [[Abg. Mandak: And what about over 0.8 promille?]] And to claim that it is not inside, does not correspond to the facts! In terms of road safety, we should also call things the way they are planned and what we have been discussing for a long time – and not say: Alcohol is not included in this system. [[Abg. Eder: Alcohol Missing!]] That is why I cordially invite you all to make a step-by-step contribution in the sense of road safety, and to agree today, because we all want one thing – and I believe that we all agree in the House –: take a step towards greater road safety so that the suffering on the roads becomes a lower one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14193	Mr Marizzi is now speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14215	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! You have certainly discussed this issue of transport policy with us, and we have said: Yes, that's a real step. – But you did not meet us at this step, I will come back to it. Of course you have advertised, Minister of State, we are not party-politically divided, in the policy of matters we have other arguments on this issue. But what irritated us is that we were there now, so to speak. – My God, you have now “filled” the newspapers with advertisements – that’s exactly what we take note of. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting, you, Federal Minister, were sick of the Transport Committee, 64 requests from the opposition were ‘shaubled’. We then took the fun and said: At 100. ‘schubbled’ application will likely then have a ‘traffic carrier’ with shuttle bus. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why? – Your system is too complicated from our point of view. Mr Glaser, I can only say: It's complicated. – Ours is easier: We focus on the three main topics of alcohol, grass and angurts. It was a very good article published last week in the “Kurier” – not SPÖ-delicious – which reads: “We remember”, “... the very Austrian version of the point leader’s license”. You, Mr Federal Minister, have spoken today about security policy. I do not need to quote experts for this because road safety is also part of road safety. And if we have less to the 3,000 police and gendarmen in your Black and Blue government, I can't imagine that we can increase road safety by doing so, that's an essential point. And if at the same time 119 gendarmerie posts are locked up, that's not exactly the nice way. I do not want to go into the ARBÖ and OAMTC communications now, that has already been done by my colleagues. Mr Miedl said in committee – I was very careful – that: Of course we will eventually evaluate this law! And here I am again at the first point: If you had come up with us a step and had taken some of our ideas – which were by no means party-political – then you would have already given the answer to such an evaluation. The law will certainly be evaluated in the direction of our proposals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14269	Mrs Hakl is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14290	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This debate today is actually dominated by the fact that some Members, in particular those of the opposition, did not understand why, for example, a prelude is not simultaneously linked to the withdrawal of the driver's licence. [[Interlocutory calls and ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of SPÖ.]] Two things that this law takes into account and which I consider particularly important. First: A system of criminal standards is always particularly accepted by the citizens when penalties are made for something that seems clear and clearly punishable. That is why I am right in this very Austrian system – compared to the German point driver’s license – that in this not any abstract traffic infringements are committed by someone without danger, but that it is with the preface and, so to speak, a greater penalty than only with a fine when someone is at real risk. In practice: So it is not enough not to pay attention to a red light, but it must also be so that anyone else needs to slow down and avoid it. I believe that this will lead to the fact that we in Austria have a very accepted system – and that is actually one of the most important things you can generally expect from criminal standards. In any case, it must not be so that someone in the middle of the night and in the case of a lonely traffic light crosses a traffic light turned on red – and then feels unjustly punished by the state. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this catalogue of standards will be accepted in general. On the other hand, in Austria we have the principle of non-double punishment. The sharpest measure is, as I believe, to withdraw from the driver's license for a traffic offence. The person who is deprived of the licence and who also has to pay a high fine should not be punished by a preface, double that. – There is no such thing in criminal law either: For example, if someone commits a murder, while another criminal offence is more difficult, the perpetrator is not punished twice for the same crime. And that's how we stick to traffic offences. This is important, as has been said, with regard to the acceptance of established standards. To sum up, I believe that this is a very successful draft, and I thank Mr Gorbach and Mr Kukacka for the commitment to carry out this long-term project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14337	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14358	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2004, there were again nearly 900 traffic losses in Austria. That's an awfully high number! As far as road transport is concerned, Austria is one of the most uncertain countries in the European Union. So it's high time to do something about it! But unfortunately, the result that you present to us today is extremely inadequate, complicated and unexposed. It is an unfair system that is so not understandable to road users. We know that there is a group of high-risk nuclei that does not comply with any regulations, nor does it have a sense of guilt. It would therefore be useful and necessary to focus on this group in order to identify the individual drivers belonging to this group and to take appropriate measures. It is about driving extremely fast, about driving under alcohol or drug influence. In this scheme, for example, a person who travels through a place at 80 km/h does not receive a penalty. [[Abg. May. Hakl: But the driver's license is gone!]] [[Abg. Eder: (in the direction of Abg. May. But no punishment!]] Each of us knows that this is an extremely dangerous situation – and that children, who are certainly also at your disposal, Mr Vice-Chancellor, are particularly vulnerable. [[Interim note of Vice-Cancellor Gorbach]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: But he already has his punishment!]] We want the SPÖ to ensure that not so many offences are detected, but that they focus on the most dangerous cases. That means: Focus on lawns, on people driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs as well as on those who are particularly careless on the road. At least one third of the fatalities could be recorded. They always point out from the coalition parties that certain cases have anyway resulted in the withdrawal of the licence, but do not overlook the fact that, for these reasons, a driver's licence withdrawal removes other presuppositions, so that it comes practically to the order in which the offences are committed. That means in practice: Whether a misbehavior has concrete consequences depends on their order, and that is absurd, that cannot have the educational value you are supposed to seek from ÖVP and FPÖ. We from SPÖ want a simple, clear, manageable regulation, which the drivers can actually understand. Above all: We demand more and better road traffic controls, because otherwise, if incorruptible and uneducible drivers can be quite sure not to be caught, the whole thing is for nothing. Then there is the risk that Austria will continue to remain one of the most uncertain countries in road transport.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14456	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. His welcome time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14477	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to make a very brief statement on the comments made by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer: This new law does not bring the slightest relief with regard to the punishment of any traffic offender! That was the difficulty of finding a system in which all previous punishments remain in all cases. Now I would like to address a particular point which will also be decided in this driving licence law Novelle, namely a novel to the Moped driver's license. For many years it was undisputed that you were only at 16 years of age Moped Let's go. A few years ago, the moped driver's license was introduced, with theoretical knowledge to prove it. Of course, there were also problems with this because, in rural areas, where public transport links are not so good, it was often difficult to reach the apprenticeship or vocational school. – But now it is quite clear: Every year, which takes more part in motorized individual transport instead of public transport, for example, driving with the moped, presents an increased risk, attracts more traffic victims. I myself experienced this one and a half years ago: When my father-in-law was in the Meidlinger accident hospital with a cervical fracture, two 17-year-old apprentices were in his room; both were severely injured during mopeding. A moped driver has been driven in a 30 km/h zone, a left-wing driver, even though the moped driver had priority, has entered him. The most serious injuries were the result; foot, shoulder broken, et cetera. – The second moped driver is much more angry: cross-sectionally tamed from the first cervical vertebra. That's how difficult it is for mopeds, even if they often can't do anything for it. But on the other hand: How should the individual reach his apprenticeship or the workplace or vocational school? At present, this permission for young mopeds is bound by a decree from the head of state – for example, in Vienna, it is certainly not necessary to go to the school with the moped – and it is also necessary to confirm employers or vocational school. But this has also led to inequalities, to injustices, because the one driving the moped can also use it for journeys other than to the vocational school or to the teaching ground; the other can't. For this reason, we are trying to find another solution today, namely that at the age of 15, while retaining the consent of the right-wing person, you can already obtain the moped driver's license, if, in addition to theoretical training, you also prove a practical training to the extent of six hours. That is why we have removed the issue of inequality. We must be aware, however, that a whole generation of young people is more involved in the traffic with the moped. I can only hope that the training we demand here, i.e. theoretical plus practical training, is so good that the victim balance is not affected negatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14529	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. – Mrs Moser! [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser is standing at the government bank and talks to State Secretary Mag. Kukacka.]] It is not common to turn your back on the speaker and talk to someone on the government bank. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser apologizes.]] Mrs Bayr, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14565	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! I think that our specific criticisms of the FSG-Novelle have already been addressed by my previous speakers. If I listen to the debate now, however, I assume that the law will be passed as it is that you will not come close to our good arguments. But if you decide the law as it is now on the table, then have I would like to make a very, very urgent appeal to the government parties, also to my previous speaker on the subject. It is about the single-track motor vehicles and one that I believe is very important and urgent about the safety of single-track motor vehicles. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is to say, there is already in the law the offence of the too short distance to the motor vehicle before it. It's already a crime to be punished. I think it is at least as important to maintain a lateral safety distance to single-track vehicles. It is very often caused by cutting and throbbing, very serious accidents of handlebars and handlebars of single-track vehicles. Among them I subsume motorcyclists, moped drivers, cyclists, all of them. It is, I think, very, very important to do something to prevent them from being so dangerous. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I gave you on 23 March. A letter was written on February 1, because, on the basis of the new law, the driving licence regulation also needs to be changed. There are also perfection trips – these have already been addressed – and in the perfection journeys there is also the regulation in § 13a that the overtaking should be practiced. I think it's important that the overtaking of single and multi-track vehicles is practiced, because there's a difference. It is important to point out and practice the sensitivity of single-trackers. In the case of the period of re-training, a brief sentence on the time-limit when these re-trainings are to be completed. When it comes to handlebars and handlebars, In the case of single-track motor vehicles, it should also be noted that this is happening at a time when the risk of accidents does not increase even more, for example, because of the fact that there is a snowmach or similar on the road. So I think you have to be careful when it comes to setting deadlines when it really is. I think all these three points have nothing to do with party politics at all. They really serve road safety and raise awareness of special dangers in road transport, which, as I am a road user, may be dangerous to others. It's about human life. I would like to ask you very strongly to accept this amendment. After all, there are four more speakers from the large government party. I would ask you to go ahead and explain to me, if necessary, why not if you do not agree, what I do not hope for, because I think that we are all about the same thing, namely less dead people on the street. I really ask for your consent. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14653	The amendment tabled by Mrs Bayr is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Haubner. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14678	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! Every accident is an accident too much. Surely there is a consensus about this, even in this House. If we decide today on this amendment to the driving licence law, I would like to say: This is an important step in the right direction and a step towards more safety on Austrian roads. The priority system will specifically limit the risk controls, but it will also heighten awareness among those who may not take it so precisely with the rules of road traffic that such behaviour cannot be tolerated. It is clear that we are creating a new additional safety catalogue with the new priority system. The greater the awareness among road users of the dangers and the greater the awareness of dangerous situations, the lower the risk of accidents, and we all want to do so, that is to say, less accidents on our roads. The figures of my native Salzburg show that there is a need or that there is a need for improvement. 80 people have been killed last year and 4,000 have been seriously injured. We in Salzburg have also dedicated ourselves strongly to the issue of “Security in Transport” and have an action under the motto: “Gib Acht!” launched on Salzburg’s streets. In cooperation with various organisations and numerous institutions, this action was founded. Many measures are to be taken to make the roads safer – an initiative that thus contributes to as much security as the new pre-eminence system. As a family father, I am particularly pleased that child care is also included in the crime catalogue for a preface. This makes it clear that we also set important impulses for the safety of our children. Punishment alone is too little, an additional measure, as provided for in the presupposition system, seems to me to be entirely correct. The pre-remark driver's license establishes a system that is targeted against notary transport sinners and thus ensures safety on Austria's roads. To stay in the driver's jargon: The opposition blocks and slows down and the government guides and thinks. The new system is the clear proof of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14723	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. 2 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14744	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Good laws bring it with it that they are handled in editorial papers and discussed positively by the population, that worse laws are required to be brought to the newspapers with PR in order to ensure appropriate reporting for the next day. It was almost impossible today to find a daily newspaper that did not have these PR connections. However, it should be noted that the PR department has worked well: Every newspaper has been adjusted to ensure that as many readers as possible do not notice that it is advertising. The only thing going through like a red thread is a very friendly Mr. Vice-Chancellor. In this case, however, this one is too friendly to me. I do not assume that 875 deaths last year give rise to so much joy. Even 75 dead less this year cannot be a cause for such great joy. I mean, just to be able to find a misappropriate of the PR workers here. It would have been more honest a picture of a handlebar in a convertible, in a PS-strong car, with waving blue scarf with the inscription: “I love 160”. On this, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would ask you to consider carefully. There is no road in Austria, where 160 would be guaranteed on a permanent basis, not three-way motorways, because if you leave two tracks behind, truck drivers, car drivers, car drivers are waiting for the chance to be able to catch up at last, and they are allowed to travel about 14 kilometres behind trucks on the third track. There it is negligent. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You've never gone faster?! It's hypocrites!]] Get the drivers the 130 on the highways! That's fast and hard enough. Ladies and gentlemen! I can also say: Today there has also been a daily newspaper in which the listing was not inside, it is the “New Volksblatt. ” It is a question of whether to relativize, compensate for press promotion or perhaps have nothing left to discharge the party finances of the EIAP. I can tell you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: The laughter is also not appropriate because Mr. Landeshützmann Sausgruber talks about “Format”, no, about “Standard” the handshake quality to you. It is, however, attested to its predecessors by the Social Democrats. This is one more reason to see even more serious three times and to think about whether in the future you should not mention handlebars, speed crossings, or over 0.8 permills of alcoholic beverages. I would also ask: If you are honest, you will also send Mr Kukacka to the next PR, because he was a vehement opponent in the debate about the 0.5 Promille! He was not for 0,0 Promille, but he wanted 0.8 Promille to be maintained as a border. Today we know why.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14782	There is now a report by Mr Mag. Kukacka. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14803	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If one listens to the opposition's current discussions, then one is quite surprised because, on the one hand, one has the impression that it has not read this law properly, because it is simply, in part, completely misrepresented and interpreted. Mr Eder, you were the first to start it. For example, you have said that if someone now has a preface, this preface will be deleted if he subsequently commits a withdrawal offence. Mr President, I should like to thank The exact opposite is the case! Because he had a leading crime before, even his punishment is extended in the case of withdrawal crime, which is to be extended by 14 days. That is, it would be more restrictive if he had a premise before. [[Abg. Eder: The point will be deleted or not?]] I really have to say, You obviously did not understand this correctly, and I would really ask you to study the law when you discuss it at least intensively. Ladies and gentlemen! At all, what you're saying here is a little unbelievable. We had just these days the 160 km/h debate, and the opposition, the Greens and also the Social Democrats were not able to complain enough about this proposal. We will still discuss this. In particular, they supported the arguments put forward by the Transport Safety and VCÖ Board. Today, however, you do not want to hear anything from the positive opinions of the board of trustees and the VCÖ on this premise system, ladies and gentlemen, because the VCÖ – at least that car driver club that is quite close to the Greens and who is always rightly speaking out against racers and traffic sinners – says to this model of our government that it welcomes it, and it compares the introduction of the premise system with the belt requirement and with the 0.5-promille limit, i.e. with milestones in the transport safety policy, ladies and gentlemen! Now, at once, the judgment of the VCÖ on this issue and on our proposal is no longer valid. In the same way, it is in the judgment of the Board of Directors for Transport Safety. The Board of Directors for Transport Safety, which you have always held in your mouth in these days and which has always been a model for your transport ministers, writes: This 13-delict catalogue is the right signal against high-risk controllers and thus for increased road safety on Austria's roads. It includes all relevant offences and is functional. Ladies and gentlemen! All your arguments are thus rejected, and we and the position we represent here, and this concept is supported. Ladies and gentlemen! What you have said in this context was, I believe, not fair. This was borne by party politics. This was one-sided and was mainly selective perception. I believe that this should be said objectively and justly. [[Abg. Arbitrators: He only teaches the delegates.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has presented its own proposal. This is very welcome, I am very much in favour of it, but unfortunately this was a very unforgivable proposal with loud half-heartedness. Why do I say this, ladies and gentlemen? – Because your proposal includes three offences, exactly three offences. [[Abg. Eder: 90 percent of accidents!]] These three crimes have already led to driving licences. That is, you weaken the system even further, because you want it to be first of all for offences for which there is already a withdrawal, only a preface, the second time a measure and only the third time a withdrawal. [[Abg. Eder: No, he doesn't understand anything at all!]] This works according to the motto: Wash my fur, but don't wet me! - It's really transparent. The experts who have dealt with your proposal have really only shaken their minds about what you have presented to us here, ladies and gentlemen. Here you should be really fair and fair. I believe that what we are presenting here is really standing up to the opinions of critical experts and that it is really a road policy milestone that is set here. I would also like to add an argument that is always taken into account in connection with transport penalties: The great advantage of this system is that this proposal is socially balanced and that it affects both the wealthy and the unfavorable in the same way. You know, as I do, many people who, without major problems, have paid high traffic penalties almost out of their post office and have always bought themselves free of the traffic offences or of the penalties they have received for them. This will no longer happen in the future, because these 13 crimes we present will no longer be sufficient to pay the administrative penalty, but everyone, regardless of whether poor or rich, whether good or not, has to undergo these measures, needs to take re-trainings, must attend appropriate driving safety courses, must take first-aid courses. That's the big difference. That is why we say: Our model is behavioural and behavioural and therefore also has a great impact on road safety! I think that if you had done a fair job here, we could have found ourselves and jointly developed a good proposal and a good system. That didn't work out. However, the government has, as it were, taken control of the problem itself and has just presented a concept that withstands every professional criticism. In this sense, today is another milestone to increase traffic safety in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14889	Mr Eder spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes' speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14913	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Mr Kukacka, State Secretary, claimed that the SPÖ model provides that in the case of offences, where there is already a driver's license withdrawal, one should only get one more point, but not a driver's license withdrawal. - That's wrong! The right thing is: The SPÖ model provides that there is also a point in those offences, in which there is already a driver's license withdrawal, namely alcohol and lawn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14970	Mr Doppler is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14992	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! With the amendment of the driving licence law, a correct and an important step in terms of road safety is taken by the High House and the Government. Because of what I have heard, I am only a little surprised at the attitude of the opposition parties. There is talk of better monitoring, of a bad compromise, of a slippery step, of the fact that the step is too little. The motion for a resolution is even reflected in the term ‘Schmalpurversion’. I would just like to say: Better, we have a narrow track version than we leave no ferry at all – as the opposition would like. [[Call to the liberals: Haven't we!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties: Voices You agree to this change of law, because you should agree to a stage target and then you may be able to decide on improvements later on with experience. A premise system with 13 risky offences serves road safety in Austria and is a preventive measure to reduce the number of accidents, injuries and road traffic deaths. As mentioned many times: If one of the 13 offences is committed, a preface shall be made. Secondly, the special measures will be put in place, and I believe that these five measures are a very correct and important requirement of this law. I think it is necessary to recognise that these measures are preventive. Risk regulators are being eroded, and awareness raising and pedagogical measures are intended to lead to changed behaviour in road transport. This serves the safety of the other road users, as well as self-protection. Also very welcome is the new regulation relating to the moped driver's licence, which will certainly lead to an improvement in the situation. I think it is good that we get away from the decree of the head of state, from the confirmation of the school and the employer, and it is certainly better if the training in the presence of an instructor and the sufficient vehicle control to the moped driver's license is justified if the consent of the person entitled to education is available. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the sense of greater road safety, less injured and dead, less suffering and despair in the families, I seek your approval of this change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15023	Mr Kukacka has recently spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15045	Unfortunately, I have to speak again because Mr Schieder has also asked me to be precise in relation to the SPÖ programme. I would like to do this and I can actually repeat what I have done here with the appropriate evidence. I have here the “Safe Street for All” programme presented by SPÖ by Kurt Eder and Dr Josef Cap, which was also presented in the context of a press conference. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] There's inside: The system provided for by SPÖ includes three offences: First Delicacy: “Linking a car with particular carelessness and with particular danger.” – This is already leading to the withdrawal of a driver’s license so that it is clarified. Second offence: “The maximum speed allowed is more than 40 km/h within the area or 50 km/h outside the area.” – This is already leading to the withdrawal of the driver’s license. Third-party crime: “Linking or commissioning of car with more than” 5.0 “promille or drugs.” – “More than 0.5 promille”! – The steering of a vehicle with more than 0.5 permill or drug-influenced vehicle has already led to the withdrawal of a driver's license. [[Abg. Eder: Not with 5.0!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: You said 5,0!]] Then it goes on to say: ‘A one-off preface’ of this offence ‘only a notice to the driver’s licence holder’ – so no withdrawal! [[Abg. Eder: Of course!]] “A second preface leads to a requirement for a targeted measure (...) by the Authority.” – So no withdrawal yet! [[Abg. Eder: Of course!]] ‘Third registration’ means the offence ‘leads a driver’s licence withdrawal of at least three months’. That means: If you commit this crime now, it immediately leads to the withdrawal of a driver's license. But if one commits this crime after the SPÖ model in the future, this will only lead to a withdrawal in the third time. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what I have said: to correct the current system. You're going ahead of this after the motto: Wash the fur, but don't make me wet!, and suggest a model that all the traffic experts who have been working on this concept have only responded to with a headshake. So I think it is now clear what we want and what the SPÖ opposition wanted in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15136	Mr Arbitrator spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15157	Mr President. In our Rules of Procedure, we have the provision that an actual correction cannot be answered with an actual correction, but to an actual correction is actually only a personal response, that is, under certain conditions. It therefore contradicts Parliamentary manners if someone from the government bank, using the right to be able to report to the government bank, corrects an actual correction, which would not be possible among Members - is still wrong in terms of content. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to teach Parliamentary manners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15197	Mr Scheibner is now speaking about business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15218	I appreciate that, Mr Schieder, and that he always loosens the meetings a little, but, Mr Schieder, you know very well that, of course, a Member of Parliament also has the opportunity, even if he does not wish to make any actual corrections, or if he would like to reply to an actual correction, to speak in a normal way and to make a contribution to the debate here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Inhaltlich!]] That is exactly what the Secretary of State has done, who at any time has the opportunity to speak. [[Abg. Arbitrators, don't be! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] As far as Parliament's manners are concerned, I believe that we must always address ourselves to whether we are doing everything right, but the Secretary of State has acted correctly in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15269	Now, Mr Dr. Stummfully, I would like to speak about business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15290	Mr President. Mr. Schieder! I was less disturbed by your speech than by your last sentence. There is no need for a long-standing parliamentarian to teach parliamentary manners! Mr Kukacka has been in this House for a very long time, and this request to teach him manners is aimed at himself, Mr Arbitrator!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15318	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15339	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I too would like to make a few comments on the new driving licence system. This priority system is a clear addition to the existing withdrawal system and ensures that 13 other offences are not only prosecuted by administrative penalties but are also noted for two years. These 13 offences are proven to be among the most common causes of accidents with death. This system is carried out according to the motto “preventive education instead of retroactive withdrawal”. Why this motto? Because every fatality in road transport is too much because every death victim leaves partners, children, friends, very often suffering and misery, and we as the political responsible do not care. It must be our common objective that, by means of sensible measures, there should also be an education of road users. This system of presupposes two years in advance of such an education. By decision, the person concerned is given an accurate explanation of what happens when a repetition occurs. When driving – and we all know that – a certain habital effect occurs, with many a certain sense of ease becomes apparent. You think it's ten times. well gone, the eleventh time is not thought, and this eleventh time can have fatal consequences. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why our goal must be to call incorruptible transport sinners to the awareness that they not only bear responsibility for themselves but also, above all, bear responsibility for other responsibilities. Responsibility for human life is the greatest responsibility we have, and I am convinced that this priority system creates this awareness-raising system and thus makes a decisive contribution to improving road safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15381	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 3 minutes welcome. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15403	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Bayr, I would like to make a brief comment on your amendment. What you wish – as you have said, Mr State Secretary – is already covered by the road traffic regulations, by the general road safety standard, because of what is of course particularly important. These 13 criteria can also be evaluated once and, if necessary, extended the catalogue. This government template, however, also includes a provision in addition to the driving licence pre-mark system, thus greatly facilitating access to the moped ID for all 15-year-olds and requiring practical hours for mopeds from 15 onwards. The discussion about mofa driving from 15 onwards has been a very long one, and it is an original demand of the young ÖVP. Especially for rural areas, it is important that 15-year-olds are allowed to drive with the Mofa or with the Moped. Public transport is not the same in rural areas as in cities. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Get less and less!]] Therefore, the possibility of mopeding from 15 onwards is a very large support for apprentices and students, so that the workplace or school location can be reached at all. However, this regulation also increases mobility and, above all, transport safety for young people, and this is a major concern for the young ÖVP and for me. The Government's proposal for decision-making today is a major improvement because the necessary confirmation of the use of public transport by school or employers to date is removed from the inadequacy of the use of public transport. This confirmation, ladies and gentlemen, has often been an obstacle to many young people. That is why it is good and right that this is no longer necessary in the future. In addition, there is also the opportunity for young people aged 15 and over to make the moped card and thus become mobile, and I am particularly pleased as a political youth representative. Instead of the confirmation, a practical training of six hours is now required by driving schools or driving clubs. So far, only eight hours of theory have been prescribed by law, and the lack of practice has led to more and more accidents. From 2002 to 2003, the number of accidents in the 15-year-old Mopedlenkern increased from 219 to 627. These figures are alarming, and the introduction of practical training is intended to counter this negative development and to bring greater road safety to our youth. The tickets will no longer be issued by the authorities, but by the schools and by the car clubs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that training for mofa is still possible at schools such as polytechnic courses or vocational schools from the age of 15. The practical training can also be carried out by a driving school or a driving club on a suitable terrain close to school. This can also be done in group courses, which keeps costs low. So easier access and greater traffic safety – a positive regulation for our youth. That is why I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15439	Mr Eder has recently spoken. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15461	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would no longer have spoken, but Mr Kukacka has quoted, but only half of what appears to be so common when he is quoted by Mr Kukacka. I can now make this clear; I have the same thing in my hand here as you are. On page 8 – you can read – the following is the priority system according to the SPÖ model: "The SPÖ is therefore in favour of a simple system understood and carried by people, which is thus effective in preventing accidents: To combat high-risk drivers – and we talk about them – “effectively, the most accidental offences in addition to the constant punishments” – “consistent punishments” is also withdrawal – “in addition to having a preface in the driver’s license register in the future.” This concerns the offence of alcohol at the wheel, speed crossings of more than 40 km/h and more than 50 km/h and steering of a car with particular carelessness and with particular hazard. Then there are further comments, and the Secretary of State has read them. So when you see the whole thing, it comes out clearly: We want constant penalties plus a point to filter out high-risk drivers, because if you don't, you'll never find them.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15504	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 817 of the supplements. Mrs Petra Bayr, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the part concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Mr Bayr, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to Rule I.Z.6. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his approval to this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign on this matter. – This is the majority, and with that the draft law has been adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on the appropriate enlargement and on regular evaluation of the ‘Schmalpur point driver’ certificate provided for by the government groups. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution on the "Schmalpur point driver's license" to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority, and therefore this motion for a resolution is rejected. [[17:47:57]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment 494/A (E) by Dr Michael Spindelegger, Herbert Scheibner, colleagues on "SOS Children's Village", nomination for the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize (804 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Ulrike Lunacek, colleagues on the nomination of the Israeli-Palestinian “Parents’ Circle” for the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize (805 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15620	We shall now proceed to points 6 and 7 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first Member of Parliament to report on the matter. Its welcome time is 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15648	Mr President. High Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am the applicant. Thank you very much. We as Social Democrats voted in favour of this proposal in committee, we agree with it in plenary session, and we would be very pleased if the proposal to nominate "SOS Children's Village" for the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize could also be approved by all political groups. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] SOS Children's Village is a religious and politically independent social work. The focus of the work is on children, and children in their living environment, to train in such a way in all parts of the world, and to help them to live their lives in the same way, is a very essential contribution at a time when areas are often unrested. The education of these children is also a contribution to the education of peace, a contribution to peace itself. Therefore, we very much hope that there will be a more ambitious decision-making process. But after the requests here are not yet about the decision on the Nobel Prize itself – and we hope that SOS Children's Village will receive it – but only to be nominated for the approval of an organisation, therefore, we have no problem with nominating the request made by the Greens, namely the Israeli-Palestinian Parents' Circle for the Nobel Peace Prize. The rejection of this application is not necessary. You can also agree, because there are more organisations to be nominated. We see no problem here, and although it is clear that in the Middle East other actors are now at work, that peace depends on the persons acting, this organization has been Parents’ Circle one that has contributed a lot to understanding. We therefore agree to the first report and will reject the negative report.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15696	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. 5 minutes welcome. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15717	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! We have nominated SOS Children's Village for the Nobel Peace Prize, and I thank my previous speaker for supporting this nomination; there has already been this proposal among SPÖ governments. SOS Children's Village is particularly suitable for this Nobel Peace Prize for several reasons. On the one hand, it is true what the current managing director of SOS-Kinderdorf said, namely: With the SOS Children's Village, the children are nominated in poverty and war. I think it is important to set a sign from Austria, a sign of gratitude for many things that have been done in our country for the people living here and for which the SOS Children's Village, I believe, is a very good example. Founded in 1947 in the face of the misery of many orphans in Austria, in Imst in Tirol, this idea Hermann Gmeiners has spread throughout the world. Today, there are already 1 660 SOS Children's Village facilities, including 666 Children's Villages, with the idea developing as well as spreading. The global idea of SOS Children's Village is also something that, in my opinion, distinguishes the SOS Children's Village from excellent initiatives proposed by the Greens. When I say SOS Children's Village, in over 300 countries of the world every child, every person, what is meant, knows this idea, and in a globalized The world makes sense to give such global projects special support and recognition. SOS Children's Village has begun with the idea of putting the children at the centre, but also the family and a local and family community. In the SOS Children's Village, orphans were not only offered a roof above the head and food, but also, above all, the involvement in a family, later also in a village of their own, and in recent years, the integration of these SOS villages into the rural and other structures of those countries in which these villages are located has been enhanced. SOS Children's Village operates not only children's villages for children without their own families, but also schools, health facilities and social institutions, which are also available to other people, especially in developing countries, if too little health care, too little training, too little vocational training and too few jobs for young people. The special feature of SOS Children's Village is the: It is impartial, disproportionate, completely independent of the respective confession of the people. It leaves the children in their own culture and ensures that children can grow up in their own culture, with their own religion, in their own family. We therefore firmly believe that after the numerous nominations of the past, it would be time for SOS Children's Village to receive the Nobel Peace Prize and therefore request that this proposal be adopted unanimously. We will not reject the Greens' request because it is a bad organisation that is being proposed, but because a world-renowned SOS Children's Village network of the Nobel Peace Prize appears justified from a global perspective for children in poverty and war and would be a forward-looking sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15769	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Lunacek. Their preferred speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15790	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, many initiatives are nominated each year for the Nobel Peace Prize; the Nobel Prize Committee then decides for itself. Most of them are organisations or persons who are very active in peace processes or who are also actively involved in peace processes – I recall examples such as those against antipersonnel mines or also in conflict regions such as Ireland or the Middle East – or in the prevention of conflicts. I do not want to say that the SOS villages are active in Austria, but also in many other countries – whether they are actually 300 countries, Karin Hakl, I dare to doubt, but at least in many countries on earth – with a lot of idealism, with a lot of commitment, and actually for many thousands, yes, tens of thousands of children have done essential things and especially for children in conflict regions. It has often been said in the past that the SOS children's villages have done too little developmental work in some regions. They are also improving this, so this criticism is known to the organization itself. But it simply does not have this importance for us, since the core task of this organization of our We have decided to propose a different organisation for some of the formal reasons that I want to hold here. I would now like to refer to the formal reasons. Unfortunately, it was not that there were discussions with the proposed groups in time to really come up with a four-party request. But the most important thing for me was that representatives of SOS Children's Village themselves said it would be better for them if such an initiative did not start in Austria, but others, such as the Scandinavians, made this proposal. This already has quite a big weight for me, because I think that especially in the country in which the organization in question has the honour of getting the Nobel Peace Prize, which would always have a little to do with self- praise. I was told by people from SOS Children's Village that they had a little concerns about this. That was another reason, as has been said, why we have said that we are proposing another organization. The Parents’ Circle is an organization that has worked in Israel and Palestine for many years. These are parents and relatives of people killed in attacks in the Middle East conflict. These have as their aim a reconciliation process between Israelis and Palestinians and are now fully active. Especially at a time when there is a new hope of peace for the Middle East, I think it makes sense to make a proposal from the Austrian side as well. What I like about this Parents’ Circle Organization is that it works both at the personal and at the political level, that is to say, talks with the political forces, but just as easily announces a willingness to reconcile and gives people on both sides an understanding that people are mourning and afraid that the part of this conflict is and therefore it is necessary to find a political solution that it is necessary to end the acts of terror and the activities of war and actually come to a political solution. In the ÖVP and FPÖ Committee, we have proposed that, if they were willing to agree to our request, we would also agree to the nomination of SOS Children's Village in order to have common applications for both organisations here. Unfortunately, there was no agreement on your part. That is why we are going to reject both Committee reports now, because we would only have thought it useful for both projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15844	Mr Bösch is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15866	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are many social institutions that would deserve the nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize. This may also include the establishment proposed by the Greens. However, we believe that a government should focus on the nomination of an organization in order to increase the chance of also resuming internationally. We will therefore support the request for nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize for the SOS Children's Villages, but not the Greens' request. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We think it is right to nominate the SOS children's villages here, but has the SOS Children's Village, founded by Vorarlberg Hermann Gmeiner, in the past A significant performance has been demonstrated for decades. Mrs Van der ÖVP has already mentioned it: In 132 countries around the world, there are now 1 668 SOS Children's Village facilities – I am in favour of the motion for a resolution – including 777 SOS Children's Villages and Youth Villages, where 56 300 children and young people live, and 671 kindergartens, schools and vocational training centres, as well as 311 social centres and medical facilities. This establishment SOS Children's Village is designed to be a private global, religious and politically independent institution and children and young people suffering from need. – Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this request deserves all of us to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15911	Mrs Plassnik spoke. – Mrs Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15932	Madam President. High house! We have discussed several projects in the Committee, which are well-known from the Federal Government's point of view. Especially the SOS Children's Village takes a special position for us. The SOS Children's Village was an internationally highly regarded NGO at a time when there was not at all the term "NGO". The speakers in front of me, I believe, have sufficiently appreciated the idea and also the practical global implementation of the SOS Children's Village Organisation. What I would like to point out: The SOS Children's Village has been active in the Middle East for decades. There are two SOS children's villages and a youth care facility in Israel today, there are two SOS children's villages in the Palestinian territories, a youth facility, two kindergartens, two Gmeiner schools and a health care centre in the Gaza Strip. The deadline for submitting nominations ended on 1 January. ==References== Therefore, according to the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the nomination was made on 27 July. Sended January. I hope that the Nobel Prize Committee will continue to appreciate the decades of efforts; it would be a good support for the important work of this organization. In this light, close support from all parties in the Austrian Parliament would be an important signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15963	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15984	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It really belongs to the beautiful pages in politics, if you can appreciate such a great work, such a great work as the SOS Children's Village presents it to the public. But I also do not want to narrow the project that the Greens have submitted, “Parents’ Circle”, which also makes an important contribution to peace work in the world. And to address what Mrs Lunacek said: Perhaps it would be possible for you, Mrs Foreign Minister, to start talks with other countries, with other foreign ministers, that not only Austria is approaching the committee with this proposal, but also other countries. That, I think, would increase the project's chances of success by a lot. As a Tyrolean, ladies and gentlemen, I am especially proud that this project is to be nominated and supported here today. You know, Hermann Gmeiner came from Vorarlberg, but in Imst – and the mayor of Imst will have something to say today – founded the first children's village. It always needs an open ear. In the municipality of Imst, Hermann Gmeiner found such a thing, and so this peaceful work could conquer the world. From this point on, therefore, a thank you also to the Imster of the time, from 1949. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SOS Children's Village is active almost worldwide, not only within the framework of children's villages, but also in other facilities, kindergartens, educational centres, medical centers, which has already been explained. It is interesting, in my opinion, that this simple idea that Hermann Gmeiner had, namely to enable parentsless and abandoned children to provide family support, could lead a victory around the world. Let me also quote the managing director of SOS-Kinderdorf, Dr. Wilfried Vyslozil, who says: SOS Children's Village is not an export of a Western mission. The idea of SOS Children's Village has moved from Austria to all cultural circles, but as a secular organization. That is, the domestic culture is recognized and respected, the children should grow up in their own culture and religion and know and live their roots. – That, I believe, is a good principle. Finally, I would like to say something because it has already surprised me very much and because it was also discussed in us in Tyrol; President Khol will also have followed: The Tyrolean parties – or have only left the ÖVP and SPÖ – have understood that they provide 5 percent of the Party funding to the SOS Children's Village in the flood-offering areas. The best peace action also needs resources. I am surprised that the FPÖ, the applicant, has not been able to participate here on this request. This is a strange process. Perhaps, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, you can still interact with your Tyrolean friends – or also the Member and colleague Klaus Wittauer, who is a Tyrolean. Maybe you'll find an open ear in your ranks. The victims in these areas would thank you. – In this sense, I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16038	The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16060	Madam President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! If you look at the homepage of SOS Children's Village, you can read as this organization itself understands: SOS Children's Village is a private, worldwide, religious and politically independent social work for children and young people, founded in 1949 by Hermann Gmeiner. In 131 countries, suffering children and young people are helped and raised in a family-like community. It comprises 132 countries, 1 700 facilities; nine of them are located in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I was really surprised when I heard in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the Greens under the leadership of Mrs Lunacek I would like to ask the Commissioner if he will not agree to this. It was incomprehensible to me, and it is still incomprehensible to me today! Hermann Gmeiner did a pioneer work. There has been no such thing around the world. It was a pioneer performance, and now there is a global network. But if someone as an Austrian does not support it and if this humanitarian service, which is sensational, does not fully support it, Mrs Lunacek, then I do not understand the world anymore! You first said something quite right here, but you have to hear between the lines: You have initially said that you do not agree for formal reasons. But then you said that you don't necessarily believe that this fits into the Nobel Peace Prize. - That's what you hear: You don't fit in with the stuff that we want to vote for the villages today. Now I say something to you and let one more important talk: Kofi Annan, the UN Secretary-General, who, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the SOS Children's Villages in 1999, highlighted the importance of SOS Children's Village work for disadvantaged children throughout the world at a meeting with President Helmut Kutin in New York, and stressed the importance of neighbourhood assistance projects such as the SOS Hermann Community Schools and SOS Medical Centres. The successful and rapid implementation of SOS emergency programmes at crisis spots and in disaster areas is also a major humanitarian contribution, says Kofi Annan. One of the biggest awards for the work was the multi-faceted nomination of the organisation SOS Children's Village and its founder Hermann Gmeiner for the Nobel Peace Prize. We want to nominate him again today or ask the government to stand by the fact that this humanitarian facility also receives a corresponding assessment that, apart from the money paid in connection with the Nobel Peace Prize, other humanitarian projects can also be carried out. I should also like to point out that 2,000 families who have been victims of the tsunami disaster are assured by the use and future work of the SOS Children's Villages and are to have a future again. Mrs. Lunacek! Given that – I have to say that quite honestly – I do not understand your attitude! For me as an Austrian and for Austria as a whole, it is a scandal if you vote against it today! I say that as clearly as it is. Finally, I would like to say my opinion in a four-liner: Gmein's children's villages are shining in the light of the human lights. Our government is strongly committed to a Nobel Prize nomination. However, for us it is inconceivable: Mrs Lunacek was against it! The Moral of History’: For Austria the greens are not.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16130	The next item is the report by Mr Reheis. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16151	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! ==References== In December 1949 the first celebration of the first family house in the city of Imst was celebrated, no one thought that from the idea of Hermann Gmeiners, who in the city of Imst recording and of course also heard from the then community. Devätern found under Mayor Josef Koch and the possibility of building a house should become a very successful peace project. Today, this project will be done by us with fug and right – and I really hope everyone agrees to it! – proposed for the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize. By the end of 1950, the first SOS children's village in the world in Imst, in my home community, already 50 children, war orphans, found reception. When I was born in 1955, I went to school with some of these children, I know the development of this SOS children's village in Imst, and I know the children who have found them in families and in accordance with the four principles of Hermann Gmeiner: Mother, siblings, house and village, recorded. This village became and is integrated into the city of Imst. I would have liked that this request concerning the SOS Children's Villages would have become a common request of all four parties here, in accordance with the idea of Hermann Gmeiners as an extra-party body standing above all denominations. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but everyone is free to agree. As mayor of the city of Imst, I am happy to support this request and am pleased that the Austrian Parliament is giving the SOS children's villages the opportunity to be nominated for the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize. The idea of Hermann Gmeinner, not only based on Hermann Gmeiner himself, from 1949 finds a worthy successor in the current President Helmut Kutin, who has succeeded him since Hermann Gmeiner's death in 1986 and continues this institution excellently. I would also like to say here that Helmut Kutin is a child of the first SOS children's village in Imst. He grew up there and, of course, knows exactly what he is talking about when he works for SOS Children's Village. I think Helmut Kutin did the best and developed the SOS Children's Village idea accordingly. Let us take this idea of a peace project for children and families as a good idea and support this request! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16197	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16218	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! This wonderful and great idea, Hermann Gmeiners, to create the SOS children's villages and thus to send an idea on the journey around the world, has been honoured here in a proper form. I mean, though, that this great thought may be a little narrowing in people's perception by reducing the whole thing to an institution for children. It is sometimes forgotten that this is also a model that has now become a global idea: It is an institution that not only provides a family environment and protection for children, but also provides the overall assistance for mothers, for families, for all those in need who work around children. Ladies and gentlemen! This idea has also been developed and perfected in cooperation between SOS Children's Village and the United Nations. I therefore believe that it should also be a matter for the Austrian population, once again an Austrian or an Austrian idea. The Nobel Prize is not only to be proposed, but also to bear it, and therefore also to suggest that the Greens should take part in a four-party agreement, because it has already been around a hundred years since an Austrian was proposed for the Nobel Peace Prize. Bertha von Suttner got him a hundred years ago and a few years later another Austrian, and I think we have quite chances of success with this idea of the villages. Ladies and gentlemen! The Gmeiner idea SOS Children's Village is a great one! This is an Austrian idea. I think that the argument to let other countries take the lead is quite noble. The Scandinavian countries were quoted, but also others who could suggest. However, I think it is more than legitimate and also a commitment to take this step, and I am deeply convinced that the Austrians will not understand it if there is no consensus in this regard in Parliament. I believe that many people will react with horror that the greens of this idea do not meet the necessary appreciation and respect. I therefore ask you to: Step back from your point of view and support You are a four-party union, which is quite appropriate and seems to be quite promising!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16266	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Lunacek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16288	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say once again to your remarks, which have now become accusations, that we will not accept this request. Mr Ledolter, as I have now heard, took note of this with horror. It was about me and the Greens not at all to show appreciation for the SOS children's villages. But I have learned in development policy that it makes sense to listen to what the organisations want. And if they tell me it would be better for them if that didn't happen, then I'll listen to it. I spoke to Mr Vyslozil and some others. If you didn't, I'm sorry. But I can't represent that. This does not mean that there is no appreciation for the SOS children's villages, by no means! But I've learned to listen to what organizations say.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16315	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. This means that we can vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First of all, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 804 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 90.) Finally, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its 805 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[8:23:01]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (688, B.C.E._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Czech Republic on employment in border zones (801, e.g.) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (689d.b._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Czech Republic on the exchange of workers for the expansion of professional and linguistic knowledge (802 d.a.) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (628 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Malta on the representation of the Republic of Malta by Austrian representatives with regard to the granting of visas for transit and short-term stay (800 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (705 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement on the Statute of the European Schools and Annex (803 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (609 e.g._Other Organiser Convention for the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife and Appendices (799 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16419	We now come to points 8 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. First of all, Mr Spindelegger has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16450	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make three brief comments on the two agreements with the Czech Republic. Point one: I believe that with these two agreements, with which we create a special regime for frontier workers and also allow trainees to learn language, exactly the interests of life in the border region are covered. We know the situation in Lower Austria that many companies, especially with the Czech Republic, have a location on both sides of the border, thus facilitating the exchange of workers within a company. Secondly, I believe that the linguistic barriers are quite enormous and that we must do something about this. There are very successful and supportive initiatives to replace even entire classes in the school sector, such as in the Retz tourism school, and to promote children in language development here in the Czech Republic and in the German on the side of the Czech Republic. I can only very much support this and believe that, with these two agreements, we are adopting a very good regulation for the present situation, which is limited to the border area. I would also like to say, however, that the problem we are facing should not, of course, leave us in the cold as a whole. It is not a question of allowing the movement of workers across the border in general, but we must also be careful to note that there is no exchange of labour with a wage dumping. We don't want to. Rather, we have been particularly committed to the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union to ensure that there are transitional periods, and these should remain. These initiatives are specifically limited to the border area, and this should remain so. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a third comment. – I believe that we should transform the relationship between Austria and the Czech Republic as a whole into a very good neighbourly one in various ways. We have now set up a number of initiatives in the form of exchange of visits, and this month we will be coming to an exchange of views between the parliamentary groups in both countries in the next few days. We'll be on the 14th. March in Weitra, and I cordially invite all my colleagues who belong to our group of friends here in Austria to maintain this exchange with the Czech parliamentarians! This will be a good thing, and we will be doing the next meeting in the Czech Republic in the border area, as we have already agreed. I think that's good. There the problems can be discussed on the ground, and in this way a very good relationship will develop among good neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16489	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Deputies. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16510	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of the ratification of this agreement by the Socialist Group, because we are not only convinced that such an agreement is important in so far as it not only causes our own authorities and political authorities to act politically in the labour market, but also, in this case, the partner authorities in the neighbouring country, in the Czech Republic, to participate responsibly in co-operation with our institutions, that no more than those in the context of the labour market. market situation possible number of frontier workers operating in the border area. – We think this is an important step forward, we welcome him and will therefore accept him. On the same occasion, however, let me also make it clear that we are anything but satisfied about the course of things to this day. We think this example – and I would like to make this clear – is an example that shows in three ways how to do bad politics. This is not an accusation to you, Mrs. Federal Minister, at the time you were not a Foreign Minister. But that one negotiates an agreement of this kind, comes to a conclusion and then leaves it for more than two years before it is finally so far that the government parties are ready and able to lead it to Parliament, that is a shame and an example of bad policy! Obviously you are not able to get to a line within the government on such questions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Second point: We have, in preparation for the enlargement of the European Union and also for the ratification of the enlargement Treaty, tried to reach a position here in the House, among other things, in order to ensure that the additional possible or expected inflow of labour is handled and that measures are put in place in this respect. After long negotiations, in November 2001, in three political groups, we finally agreed together on a motion for a resolution which has provided for measures in the labour market policy sector, which have precisely pursued the objective that is now to be achieved with this agreement. However, it is a sign of bad policy that you have remained guilty to us and to each other in this respect. It was precisely this kind of action that was required. The Czech agreement has delayed you for two years, and the Slovak agreement is not yet in place. You haven't shown handshake quality, and that's bad policy! The third point is that we all have to complain and criticize that, while you and us have jointly decided that specific labour market policies are being adopted to prevent unemployment from rising in the context of the enlargement of the European Union. You didn't do anything! What you do is you say monthly when you announce unemployment rates: Unfortunately, it has not yet improved; we hope that it will be better when the economy is starting. – Please, you have not been chosen for hope, but for action! This too is an example of bad policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16562	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is next spoken. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16583	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are in favour of these agreements, which are here today for decision-making. However, Mr One, we do not see this as you do that it is a bad policy if, in particular with such sensitive agreements on the labour market, it is still a matter of relations with a country such as the Czech Republic, to which other issues have been open and in some cases still open, time is left. We are not of the opinion that good policy, namely good policy for Austria and for the interests of Austria, is expressed by the fact that agreements are completely, very quickly... [[Abg. Dr. One: That you don't do anything!]] We do not do anything, Mr President, as you see now, but we have done so with thought and consistency. The Czech Republic, too, has been subject to agreements; I would remind you that this has affected the field of the Ministry of the Interior: For a long time, the Czech Republic did not want to conclude a mutual agreement on the withdrawal of illegal immigrants in Austria from the territory of the Czech Republic, although under the Dublin Agreement and other provisions the Czech Republic would have been obliged to conclude such an agreement. This is thanks to God, and it has not been possible to conclude even these border crossing agreements, which are certainly useful when it comes to promoting mutual training as well, and when it comes to very, very careful, that was important to us, taking into account the labour market in Austria, especially in sensitive border regions, enabling the exchange of labour. Mr Eine, I would also expect - Mrs Foreign Minister - that is, of course, also your job, and I know that They are responsible for expressing our, of course, friendly relations, as with all our neighbouring countries, also with the Czech Republic everywhere, but also consistently addressing the open questions. I would remind you that there is still a lot open to us regarding nuclear power plants, especially Temelín, and I would remind you that the question of Beneš decrees and the Amnesty laws is still open, which was promised to us before the ratification of the Treaty on EU enlargement: what will not happen in the next few weeks after membership! It just didn't go out anymore, it's called. – Now almost a year has passed, and nothing has happened in this area! Quite the contrary, one has also discussed honors for Mr Beneš and does not make any institutions to abolish these laws of injustice. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unimaginable!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, there are open questions here, and we should not forget that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Friendly relations, yes, but in all friendship and the same consequence, also point to these open questions! You shouldn't shake your head, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that we are also guilty of the Austrians who are very affected by this question. It should not be a problem for a democratic country, for a member country of the European Union like the Czech Republic, in the 21st century. By the end of the century, such legal systems as have been the basis for the murder and expulsion of hundreds of thousands of innocent people, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Minister for Foreign Affairs, I assume that you will benefit from all your contacts in order to also point out this open problem. We hope that it will succeed now, after these positive agreements and with the good, friendly relations we have, to address also these few, but important, open issues of a solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16645	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16671	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this case, all the Committee's proposals will be approved. I would like to focus on two areas. One is the Convention for the Conservation of Migratory Wildlife. When I first saw this, I thought: Interesting, what are we doing? Because in general, they are thought of – they are also found in the agreement – the whales, the dolphins, the seals and the like, and I thought that they are not quite so often with us. But see, there are very probably animals for which this applies in Austria, and this explains why this so-called Bonn Convention has already been adopted in 1979 and has been in force since 1983, but has not yet been ratified by Austria, but only now. Did you know that Austria is the only EU member next to Estonia, who has not ratified it to this day? Today it will happen. The background is that there are very probably also animals in our area, which are subject to this – migratory birds, bats, butterflies and others – and that here the differences between countries and the federal government were once again a problem, because many countries did not want it. This is known to you; I only mention the example of animal welfare law. – The story of these things. But, well, I'm glad that this is finally being ratified and that we also protect animals in other parts of the earth, such as African elephants, cranes, falcons – falcons – or whale sharks. Fortunately, one thing has been protected for a long time with us: the big step. There are also regional agreements, and this has already been signed by Austria. However, there are other agreements that are also intended to protect animals that exist with us; the Minister of Agriculture has said in the Committee that it is being worked on. One thing I do not want to keep from you, because that has the very nice name 'Euro Bats', i.e. Euro bats. I think that would be something – and be it just for the name’s sake – that I hope we will soon be able to ratify it here too. It may be that memories of Batman et cetera are not entirely undesirable. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's too fighting, Mrs. Colleague!]] No, Batman's not that fighting, that's a good one. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course!]] At any rate, I would be pleased about the 'Euro Bats' if we could soon ratify it here. There is also a Water Bird Agreement. – So that’s the subject of the wandering wild species. Now to what my previous speakers have mentioned, namely the two agreements between Austria and the Czech Republic, the so-called border crossing agreement and the intern agreement. This is where I have to join my colleague, someone who has spoken here: This has been a bad policy in recent years, because, as has already been mentioned, these two agreements have already been signed by Minister Bartenstein and his Czech counterpart in the summer of 2001, i.e. three and a half years ago. They were even in the Council of Ministers, one of them was already on the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs during the last legislative period, but nothing happened! In the current legislative period, they were on the agenda of the Council of Ministers two years ago – that was at the end of March – but were taken down again. I can only explain this in such a way that a government group did not approve of it. Now it's finally coming to pass. But it seems that there have still been some negotiations. Mr Scheibner mentioned it: They mentioned that even Czechs do not participate in some things. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes!]] However, I would like to remind you that the Dublin agreement applies only to the Czech Republic, since the Czech Republic is a member of the EU, and not before. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, of course!]] But the agreement between the Czech Republic and Austria – border crossing, intern agreements –: August 2001! This has been a long time since the Czech Republic joined the EU. I hope that this is probably one of the last steps to improve formal relations between the Czech Republic and Austria. I very much welcome the initiative that the friendship groups that Mr Spindelegger mentioned are meeting. I think we used to do this before to get the ground ready again. But what has not been so far does not mean that this cannot be in the future. I would also be interested in how you plan to proceed on the question of the seven-year transitional periods, which were also supported by the Austrian Federal Government – not ours – for the newly joined states, if Mrs. Minister is still speaking. There is a two-year deadline here. If an evaluation shows that immigration, migration, but also in the Pendler world, are there not the problems that some have expected to face in order to reduce these seven-year transitional periods? I very much hope that this will be the case, because we have already seen that the problems are not really serious, especially in the border area with the Czech Republic – perhaps in the area of commuters, I already admit that there are sometimes difficulties there. But almost the principle “People must not come to Austria, and if, only as tourists; we must do so very well!” I do not consider it to be acceptable in the long term within this enlarged European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16754	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16775	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Good government work can also be done with a very well-prepared speech by my colleague Not to be made bad. I believe that the enlargement of Europe has succeeded in making a significant contribution to this, both as Austrian and as an Austrian Republic, and I also believe that developments are going well. I still remember very carefully talking to candidate countries that are member countries today, when workers' organisations – I absolutely understood this – had their great concern that they said: This accession, this enlargement must be made with all caution, because overloading the labour market would be a major problem for us. I have been ate with it, my colleague, I know how things have gone. That is why this government has made the transitional scheme 2-3-2, and I think it is right. I think it is correct and applicable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we decide on a border agreement here today, I think the preparations have gone well. But you have to address the whole subject properly. This is not a general approach, it is an agreement within the border regions. The positive thing is that there is an exchange There are workers, each limited to a year, which can be improved, but above all the linguistic exchange possibility for the trainees, the encounter with the others. I would like you not only to criticise, but also to work to ensure that this commitment not only exists with the Czech Republic – I am talking about the exchange of trainees and linguistic cooperation – but also, above all, with the next countries, Hungary, Slovakia, especially Poland. For we have the problem that we are already a common Europe, but that we have not yet begun to live in linguistic communication. This is, in fact, a great burden for many if they want to come together and shape this new Europe together. That is why I think that this government template is absolutely well-designed. It welcomes our agreement and contributes to the rapid progress of peaceful development within our countries and within this new Europe and, finally, in the interest of all of us, succeeds.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16823	The next item is Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16845	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all: Of course, we agree to this agreement. I think it is a right step in the right direction, even though this agreement is a little late and still stands out with Slovakia; therefore Slovakia should be negotiated more quickly. Nevertheless, I believe that this step is important because it can contribute to the stabilisation of the regional labour market. Of course, this preparation for a free labour market is the most important thing for me. For I consider these transitional periods, which we have negotiated, to be the right rule 2-3-2, because we at the border are very likely to have problems in keeping the labour market in order, which is a much more strained one. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I believe that this preparation – accession and enlargement are not yet quite a year ago, but at least you can see how it develops – is in fact very hesitant in Austria. For the maintenance or liberalisation of the protection provisions is partly assessed by us after two years, and we will determine how it is to continue. What have we agreed? . We have agreed that we will take action in Austria. As one who knows this region quite well as the chairman of the EUREGIO, I ask: What preparation was made? Where are the qualification measures promised, for example, to the border country? Where are the employment policies in the border country, which have also been promised? If we are already looking at the liberalised labour market after the expiry of the protection provisions, I believe that this does not require waiting until this deadline expires, but it requires active action. I'm actually not aware of that. I would also like to say the following: This exchange of labour, joint training, the establishment of a common data base and the information base; all these are keywords that are used again and again, but I hardly see any real improvement and progress. I also believe that everyone in the border region knows how important it is to understand this border area as a common habitat. But a common habitat is also a common working and economic area. In this sense, I believe that we still have a lot to do. If measures are not put in place now – in a situation where we still have certain protection mechanisms – I fear that if they fail in a few years, this labour market will be even more under pressure. In that sense, I think it is very, very important to really use this transitional period as a preparation period and ultimately to elucidate the danger of a conflict of very tense labour markets at a later stage. Because you have to say that they are not only tense in the border region with us, but also on the other side of the border region, with our neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16899	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16920	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of Mr One and Mr Lunacek, I must say a little surprised if she criticises the fact that two years ago this decision should have been taken: We liberals and the ÖVP, we are protecting Austrian workers! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] First, we take care that the Austrians are busy, and then if we still need people, then we take such measures. I was a little surprised when I was at an event in Freistadt and was criticized by the economy and the Chamber of Labour! Thank God we have so much work in the district of Freistadt, in the border region, that we even have a shortage of skilled workers. Therefore, it is not prohibited for 60 percent of free-city workers to commute to Linz in the central area. We are thank God in the happy position that we have little unemployed in the district of Freistadt. And if there is a lot of unemployed people in Linz, it is not forbidden for the Linz unemployed to travel to the Free City. And if there are no more skilled workers in the labour market, we are also prepared to agree to the border agreement, and that is the case now. However, this is not a free ticket for simply getting people from the Czech Republic and for Austrian workers to take wages dumping and many others in the border region. I would ask those in charge of this body to pay attention to the following. As I have said, this is not a free ticket, as far as the number and professional groups are concerned. Where there is a shortage of skilled workers, for example, in the profession of the carver in the district of Freistadt, where 20 or more carnivores could be recruited, we should look at exactly how many we really need so that we do not produce too many permits. I appeal again to the economy: We have enough young people in Austria. Give this also a chance, especially in the case of skilled workers lack in these Professions to be able to do their training, because I think we are obliged to do so! So on and on, I think it's good, if there is a shortage of skilled workers, you can do that, but with the seven-year transitional period or with the free movement of persons, it must have nothing to do with it. These provisions must be complied with. That is why we have taken particular note of the fact that this seven-year transitional period will be introduced to the EU's eastern enlargement in order to secure the jobs of Austrian workers. That is why I am seeking approval of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16966	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16987	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Very soon. Let me also express a few thoughts on the agreement with the Czech Republic. I believe and I am convinced that it is a very European step, it is a very neighboring step we are taking here, and it is politics, it is our country's foreign policy, that we are making bilateral treaties, in particular with our neighbours, and that our economic development, our whole common development in this Europe, in particular with its neighbours, is a goal. I may mention in the example of Upper Austria – the colleague from Lower Austria has presented his view of things here, I would like to give the above Austrian example – that this has been very successful. Let us remember 1989: At that time, this border was really dead – that was true for others, whether it was the Slovenian, Hungarian or the Czech border – and then this border was opened, and we had opportunities to meet, settle down and exchange workers. This development, of course, culminated when last May all these states became our new neighbours, as we are all in the European Union. The fact is that Upper Austria sees these common economic areas, that it sees a common development with these neighbours in the Bavarian region and just above the border in the Czech Republic, in the south Bohemian region. We can show proud successes. I also mention this because our head of state Dr. Josef Pühringer is now in office for ten years and we were able to see and learn yesterday that this Upper Austria under the management of the ÖVP is really good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] A survey has shown that three quarters of the Upper Austrians are optimistic for the future, that we have the lowest unemployment, that this economic concept has arisen, that the location Upper Austria works together with and in the border regions and across the border. That's the way to the future. This agreement, which invites young people to come to us on time, to learn with us this development, on the other hand, that we make our businesses and our workers available to our neighbors – I think we should not prevent this European step. This common Europe is also found in the bilateral treaties, in particular with our neighbours.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17026	The next speaker was Mr Leutner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17053	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have this agreement between Austria and the Czech Republic on employment in border regions. What is the core of this agreement? . The agreement, taking into account the situation in the labour market, should allow a very limited number of frontier workers to take up employment in listed border regions. The SPÖ – and this has already been stressed by my previous speakers – has agreed to this agreement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but at the same time I would like to stress one particular point, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to repeat this again here in plenary today. First: The agreement requires additional measures by the Federal Government against illegally organised black companies. Secondly, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government needs measures to combat unemployment, particularly in these border regions of the Czech Republic, where the labour market situation, as I have learned, has not improved, but has worsened, even in recent months. This is a situation similar to that in Lower Austria. Thirdly, when implementing the agreement – and it will be very crucial in the coming months – we must not arrive at a point at the end of the day where we have to say that the agreement is a single circumvention of the transitional periods for European enlargement, and it applies only to the exchange of particularly cheap workers. In this context, let me also say: If you ask someone today, What are your chances in the new Europe? and you might get the answer: For me personally good!, then you can only say: Be glad because, of course, this is not true, ladies and gentlemen, because the government has so far done little to ensure that the workers in that country, as part of the enlargement process, are in a new, larger market. There has, I believe, not been protected, Mr Walch, there has been too much time, Mrs Minister. Austria and, above all, the labour market must be prepared for the challenges related to enlargement. This requires our employees, I would like to say almost, Austria package with targeted measures to safeguard their chances in the future. This includes, as I believe, an ambitious educational package with which workers can start something, especially in border regions, a forced rail expansion to enlargement countries, and, finally, I believe, more efforts by the Federal Government in the EU, so that Austria's interests in enlargement do not fall short. Only in this way will workers in this country benefit from their opportunities. We agree with today's proposals, but, ladies and gentlemen, in a critical way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17099	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17120	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! It has just been 11 years since the “heroes of Brus-sel” came back after the accession negotiations, and none of us could have imagined that this development, which we have now experienced, will happen so quickly. We have opened the labour market with a great deal of attention. We have experienced enlargement, and we see today that we also want to make further openings of the labour market in the neighbouring regions to Slovakia, to the Czech Republic. This is because economic development needs protection and care on the one hand, but on the other hand the challenge, opening up, competition and, on the other hand, growing together. And this togetherness may have to go faster than we can imagine today. We therefore now have this agreement with the Czech Republic, we have a well-functioning agreement with Hungary, and we will certainly also need to talk about an agreement with Slovakia, although this is not urgently necessary from the immediate situation in the border region, but it is necessary to test the transition to full opening in time in five or seven years. We have moved from a shielded labour market to an open economic area, and we must allow the pains that the economy is suffering so well that at the same time the joy of success is greater and people are encouraged to prepare and look forward to this open economic future. I would also like to thank the Offices of the Labour Market Service which, particularly in the border regions, in the districts adjacent to the Czech Republic and Slovakia, have to face special challenges and do so with great commitment. In cooperation with highly skilled companies and businesses and the corresponding funding by the federal government and the country, many things are also successful. I would just like to remind Mr Bauer that the Laa spa is perhaps interesting and worth visiting, that Retz too has a lot to offer, and that Poysdorf has taken a good turn in recent years, just as the entire border region will soon be doing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17157	The next speaker was Mrs Felzmann. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17178	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with the decision of the Empowerment Act, we have brought the great vision of the future of Europe to our attention. The European Constitution is undoubtedly of historical importance for European integration, and we hope and we also expect it to enter into force in 2007. The two present agreements between the Czech Republic and Austria on the frontier workers on the one hand and on the exchange of workers on the other hand also focus our attention on European integration in small and medium-sized enterprises. The Europe often experienced as a faraway is concrete here on site in the border region. Here the barriers fall, there are borders being overcome, people meet. This Cross-border Agreement supports: the regions, the workers and, of course, the economy, as we have heard many times today. Austria – which is certainly not often stressed enough – has been very, very beneficial by enlargement. You only need to look at the purchase power inflow studies of the city of Vienna. Now new lives can be created in these regions because of the economic, social and also cultural exchange that is taking place, and also because of the various educational projects already initiated. In the past, we have already had very good experience with these agreements, for example with Hungary. This agreement is also based on this current agreement. I think that today's decision deepens these good relations with our neighbours and also contributes to the Europeanisation of our two labour markets.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17218	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Brader. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17239	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Madam President. High house! When it comes to the conclusion today of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Czech Republic on the exchange of workers for the expansion of vocational and linguistic knowledge, I would also like to remind you that Austria had similar agreements with neighbouring countries before entering the European Union and that this is also proof that a very neighbourhood-oriented foreign policy has always been made in Austria. And I am even more pleased that this has always been done unanimously. It is simply good and important to invest in bilateral relations with the eastern neighbouring countries and to seek ways of close cooperation. This has also happened in this case. Talks have already taken place in 1997, but they have become a reality because the Czech neighbours had too great a desire. I believe that we are now taking a very, very important step towards this agreement, which can be used for exchange and temporary employment of quotas each year. The duration of employment depends on professional activity, but is limited to one year and may be extended exceptionally for up to 18 months. This too is an important step, and I think that the Commission, which has been formed here, is also taking the necessary measures. Finally, I would like to join my previous speaker, Bauer, who said that this can only be a transitional solution to prepare the right steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17269	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. None of the rapporteurs would like a final word, as I see it. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement with the Director-General The Czech Republic's approval of employment in border zones in 688 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Government of the Czech Republic on the exchange of workers – female workers – to extend professional and linguistic knowledge in 689 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements with the Republic of Malta on the representation of the Republic of Malta by Austrian representative authorities concerning the granting of visas for transit and short-term stay, whose Article 1 is constitutional, to be approved in 628 of the Supplements. With regard to the aforementioned constitutional provision, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I therefore also expressly define the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement on the Statute of the European Schools and the Annex to which Articles 1, 2, 3, 10 and 11 are to be amended shall be approved in 705 of the Supplements. With due regard to the aforementioned constitutional provisions, I put first in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the Danish, the English, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish language versions, with the exception of the annex, must be made known in so far as they are responsible for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Convention on the Conservation of wild-living species, together with attachments in 609 of the supplements, to be authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:08:42]] 13. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 515/A by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Herbert Scheibner, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Data Protection Act 2000 – DSG 2000 (821 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17389	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17419	Dobar vecer! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the National Council, we are dealing with the first legal impact of the tsunami disaster. If one hears that politics reacts to the tsunami disaster, and if one knows what in crisis management in Austria only worked right and bad or not at all or only partially, then everyone would assume: Aha, now at last a bundled competence will be created, a crisis center will be set up, it will not happen in the future that in case of desperate relatives try to get information about the fate of their loved ones, they will have to sit on the phone. This would have been assumed to be on the agenda. [[Abg. Murauer: The present servants have made this excellent!]] They did well, Mr Murauer, but they were not prepared for this situation, let alone trained for it, nor have they, of course, the competence to respond to it when such a disaster occurs. [[Abg. Murauer: Of course they got a training!]] That's the problem! It is not for the ministers present to make the accusation that they were sitting there and were partly helpless, but it is to make the accusation that they put there completely without preparation and then, as it were, to some extent, delivered them to the desperate relatives. That's what's bothering me here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a little too little when you hear someone taking the word “presence minister” into the mouth to reflect something in the direction of the colleague at the speaker’s desk. [[Abg. Murauer: I just wanted to say...!]] That was an absolute emergency and crisis situation for those involved. Neither the one side, namely the relatives, was logically prepared for such a thing, but unfortunately also the other side at the end of the line was not. That was the problem. It is precisely for this purpose that precautions should be taken. Not that we wish here that this should be necessary soon, but it will come! And as natural disasters and other disasters come, they do not ask us whether they occur before, but they happen. Precaution is therefore a question that the legislator and policy have to deal with. But the reaction we are dealing with today, namely the amendment of the Data Protection Act, is one – now I try to express it quite mildly – in which it is questionable whether this change is at all necessary. I remember the criticism that was practiced two months ago. It has always been about the same thing, or were it identical things addressed by the family members: that travel agencies and tour operators have not provided the questioning relatives with passenger lists, hotel lists and the like. You'd have been able to, just: The terms and conditions of travel forbid them. What would the end of it be? – to change these in order to be prepared for an event that can occur – not in the dimension of the tsunami disaster, but also much less –. - No! The Austrian legislator is once again – what does “one more time” mean?; I take that back – the Austrian legislator believes that I am acting here preferable student – now I say it with the impression I have of it – so to speak, tsunami-populist, and is changing it carefully – in the sense: from handling, but not in practice; for there was no long review of this law, but it has been written, it has been sent out a little bit and – Zack! – it has been decided in the Constitutional Committee. This is simple and simply not necessary. I am simply afraid that, if such a case occurs again, what no one of us hopes is that a disaster of a similar dimension will occur, just the weaknesses that we faced at the end of December/beginning of January, will not be eliminated because there is still no bundled crisis competence. At least I know nothing about it, perhaps the Secretary of State will tell us something today. That would be a surprise, but in the Committee we have not yet heard of it in this direction. In my opinion, changing the data protection law quickly is a little bit. Even though I do not believe that this change of law will cause too much harm, the way in which the process and, above all, the always the same point of dealing with sensitive, personal data and the negligence with which policy is taking place are a reason to reject this amendment to the Data Protection Act. It is not only I who reject it, but also the Green Group's colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17491	Mrs Fekter's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17513	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear Teresa! Of course, you're right that the terms and conditions of the travel industry are internationally agreed... – Okay, that's what Jacky Maier will tell us. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: No, that's not true!]] – But according to Austrian practices, as published in the catalogues, the travel agencies have not gone out with these data. If they did not have these terms and conditions, they would have been legally on the road if they were to extract the data under the Data Protection Act, I say. It is therefore likely that both will have to be changed: first, the Data Protection Act and then the General Terms and Conditions for the case of disasters. Today we are dealing with the Data Protection Act. It is true that, so far, the implementation of the principle of data protection was only possible if vital interests were affected. Let's extend that a little. That means: In the future, an intervention into the fundamental right to data protection will take place either with the consent of the data subject or in the vital interest of the data subject or in the greatest interest of a third party. In the event of disaster, they may be aid organizations. We have defined precisely: the close relatives, the aid organisations and the situation when data may be passed on to abroad. I think that was necessary. Terezija, you know it as much as most here in the hall: It was a real displeasure among family members that they were not informed that the lists had not been published – nor will they continue to be published. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Also not to be published!]] I really think this is necessary for the cause of piety. Unless the missing are really identified as dead, there should not be death lists. I think this procedure is justified and I believe that a balanced compromise has been reached here, which was, by the way, agreed with the Data Protection Council. I think we have reviewed briefly, but the institutions concerned have given their opinions. They have also been involved in the novels. That is why we have decided on a comprehensive amendment in committee. This is a legal consideration, on the one hand, of dealing with the disaster with assistance, on the other hand with regard to data protection. This balance of law, I believe, has been a good success. And if there is any abuse, we have provided for sanctions for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17568	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17605	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think you have to correct a legend. Personally, I believe – that was also the opinion of the Austrian Data Protection Council – that basically a change to the Data Protection Act would not have been necessary. But – and I emphasize this – to exclude interpretation problems for the future from whether sensitive, personal data may be passed on or not, we agree with this amendment to the Data Protection Act. Mr Fekter, I can also correct you in several points. We discussed an initiative proposal, there was no review procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But integrated...!]] – No one was involved, colleague Fekter! We, the Socialist Group, called for the Council of Data Protection to be convened and clarified our objections in a long discussion. As a result, the opinion of the Data Protection Council on this amendment has been adopted. I would like to see the opportunity – I think that has not yet been done – and I would like to thank the staff of the Data Protection Office in the Federal Chancellor's Office, especially Mrs Souhrada, who is here today, for the excellent work on behalf of my group – and I hope, also on behalf of all Members of this House. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] The novelle of the data protection law is a story. The other story – and I say that very clearly – is general terms and conditions in which it is regulated that personal data or sensitive data, i.e. data on persons who are injured, data on persons treated abroad in a hospital, should not be passed on. I conducted an analysis of all travel catalogues for the summer season 2005. [[The speaker keeps a catalogue up to date.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In all these catalogues of Austrian travel agencies, a data transfer is also excluded in the event of a crisis. I therefore call on the economy, including Mr Mitterlehner, to influence in the Chamber of Commerce in the relevant bodies that these conditions are corrected and, at least for this season, to: Accompanying text is provided so that Austrian holidaymakers are actually informed about the legal framework. In conclusion, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: We agree with this regulation in order to avoid interpretation problems. We therefore agree because we no longer want to experience people standing at an airport with a transparency on which to read: Data protection instead of human life. - That's what happened in Schwechat. Data transfer would have already been possible in accordance with the legal provisions. We are now expecting clarification. The data protection, Hohes Haus, should never serve as an excuse for state failure in a ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17670	Next, Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer will speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17691	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that in principle there is no consensus here. This consensus can be summarized in such a way that we all say: Even now, the legal basis would have been sufficient to use the sensitive data to help the missing ones and the victims of this flood disaster, but it was not quite clear. We have certain principles in data protection, which is above all the safeguarding of the important interests of those concerned in the use of the data, in particular the guarantee of confidentiality – sometimes making it difficult for legalistic design – and the fact that always the least possible intervention must be applied. If you, Mr Mag. Maier, I really have to give you the right to talk about disasters. We had the following situation in the case of Kaprun: After this terrible fire disaster, many relatives, acquaintances, and friends were very concerned about whether they, their own relatives, or those in these two cable cars were familiar. It was only possible to explain this by asking mobile operators to determine whether the name of the can be this place or are they quite elsewhere. A mobile phone operator, despite the request of the Chief Procuratorate Linz, with which we have cooperated, has not declared itself ready to do so, the others already. This shows that the legal situation in this respect is very unclear that it belongs to a regulated body. Mrs Stoisits, who has formulated the position of the Greens, I do not fully understand. On the one hand, you call for a bundled crisis expertise, on the other hand you refuse to agree to clarify this difficult legal situation. This is not quite logical as to what you are doing here, because it is data that is sensitive, but in the end there is even more sensitive. Although what I announce to the travel agency is known to the hotel and so on, it is certainly intimate – not a question – but when it comes to everything, that is to save life, the higher interest in life saving must be something more valuable. In this sense, we welcome the clarification of the legal basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17734	Next, Deputies will come in. Winkler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17755	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Of course, in disaster situations there is always the same chaos. This is particularly evident in case of any missing person or identification of seriously injured or even dead persons. Austria has therefore rapidly affected, not least from the tsunami disaster. The current amendment to the Data Protection Act 2000 is intended to help better deal with important and, above all, sensitive data from data subjects and family members in the event of a disaster. A number of changes are therefore foreseen in the new legislation. I can nevertheless list them here, although most of them are known fully in terms of content, on a tax basis. In the supplement to § 48a, § 48a is to be added as follows: the transmission of sensitive or insensitive data on the assistance, detection, identification or information of relatives; the acquisition and use of data from aid organisations; the use of data in a network of information and networking of knowledge and the better coordination of data; the increased exchange of data between Austria and the countries affected by the disaster, if abroad. And the transfer of data may only take place in countries with a corresponding level of data protection. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can also use my speech to thank all the aid organizations, associations and helpers involved in this tsunami flood disaster, the Red Cross, the Caritas, all the ecclesial organizations, “Pharmacies Without Borders”, the Austrian Federal Army, all doctors, medicaments and volunteers for their great and selfless help, as was thanked by my predecessor for dealing with the difficulties related to data protection. Despite difficult legal conditions, many lives were saved by their great commitment. In the same way, a great deal has already been done for the reconstruction of the destroyed region. The aid organizations have done overhuman things. They also deserve a warm thank you for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the future, only close relatives such as parents, children, spouses and partners may be provided with information in order to meet the obligation to use data or to share these data. This will only happen in the future if the person concerned communicates data from himself and his family property to the data subject as well as data about the person actually or probably affected by the disaster. This precise disclosure of personal data, as well as the data of the missing person, is intended to prevent any abuse in this context. That is to say, information should really only be passed on to affected members. It is hoped that these clear identifications will also lead to the fact that human dramas, as in extreme cases, will not or will not take place, or will not take place, the rapid death declaration of those who are still alive. In order to prevent data abuse, the legislative amendment also provides for the deletion of the data if they are no longer needed. In addition, all data uses must be logged. In this context, I would like to point out once again that the Constitutional Committee has, by a majority vote, made a finding that the travel agencies, their general terms and conditions, are changing the transmission of data within the meaning of this legislative innovation. In the sense of a correspondingly positive design and amendment of this law for the people affected by a disaster, I seek the approval of this new law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17825	The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17847	Madam President. High house! 9. January 2005: ‘Tsunami: Khol for tsunami law’. The National Council President was present at the “press hour”. ‘National Council President Andreas Khol (V) wants its own ‘Tsunami Act’ as a result of the flood disaster in the Indian Ocean. This should address the legal implications for the Austrian stakeholders ad hocly, he stated on Sunday in the ORF ‘press hour’. These are both matters such as transfer costs and wage advance payments, as well as death and loss declarations. These were ‘heavy things’ for the survivors, Khol said. Therefore, one will walk from words to deeds very quickly.” Ladies and gentlemen! This was probably not so serious in the actions, and one can see again the difference between the announcement of ÖVP politicians and reality. What worlds are claping apart! Legally, that's no fame at all. Finally, a committee stand remains – that is the little mouse that the mountain has crawled around. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the quality of crisis management over long distances was very modest. In Styria it was a little better, there were people who were competent and sensitive about things. And then, of course, Mrs. Klasnic just jumped through the area and has said: I'm responsible for the disasters! – And as life plays that way – a few days have passed and the worst shock has passed – the Styrian population connects when Mrs. Klasnic says she is responsible for the disasters, so for a long time quite different things, and you all know that: Semmering Base Tunnel, EStAG, Spielberg and much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17886	The next item is the speech by Mr Praßl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17907	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The internal Austrian experience in flood disaster has made clear the need to adapt the data protection law in relation to the transfer of personal, in particular sensitive data from persons. According to § 1 para. In any event, the use of data in the applicable data protection law is permitted only if one or the other person agrees to it. However, this procedure is not always possible in the event of a disaster. In the event of a disaster, a situation can often not be identified with clarity, so that it is difficult to interpret. In order to be able to provide rapid assistance, however, it is necessary to ensure that the authorities and the aid organisations can fulfil their tasks without disability. In concrete terms, therefore, it should be standardised that the use of non-sensitive as well as sensitive data should not be infringed. With regard to the use of sensitive data, the new § 48a, which constitutes a legal authorisation of the authorities, provides for a strict restriction of purpose. The use of these data should be permitted only in so far as the purpose and content of the use of data are covered by the legal responsibilities of the authorities. This also includes the determination of data. The authorities may also, if necessary, transmit data to each other in the form of a network of information, which is imaginable, for example, in the management of lists of missing, injured or deceased persons. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In view of the large number of victims of disasters, this data should also be kept accessible to aid organisations. This data flow must also be ensured between domestic and foreign authorities as well as aid organisations. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, information should only be passed on to close relatives. These include parents, children as well as spouses, partner or partner. Other close relatives must demonstrate a certain intensity of the bond. In order to prevent abuse, the identity of the persons requested must be verified. In any case, the data must be deleted if the purpose has been fulfilled. I would also like to thank all the aid organizations that have served in the tsunami disaster.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17954	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17975	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The tsunami disaster was certainly the biggest disaster we have ever faced, even though it was happening at the other end of this world. It has brought to our attention in a very drastic way the limits of the performance and also the strength of the crisis of our systems, the aid systems, the social services systems, the diplomatic services systems and also the legal system. Although data protection is only a very small aspect of it, especially in this highly sensitive matter you seem to have had it particularly fast to re-adjust the existing right. All other system failures have so far remained without any consequence, although National Council President Khol, Chancellor's bowl and other ÖVP personalities have looked forward to a comprehensive tsunami law in the light of media attention. This claim does not in any case satisfy the present rule. That's just too little what you're offering. We have deliberately held back, ladies and gentlemen, in the criticism of the foreign minister's crisis management, because we do not want to create a political capital out of this great disaster. But we expect a little more consequences. And if you don't put it, then we'll put it in the next legislative period, you can rely on it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, the proposed EU Directive on patenting of computer-implemented inventions, which, if actually decided, would have a massive impact on small software providers, is in need of action. This directive would also create American conditions in Europe by allowing large suppliers to patent software across the EU and would, of course, have little businessmen virtually no longer a margin and would disappear from the market. And that can't be in our sense. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think I will run open doors with you anyway, because all Austrian Members of the European Union have spoken against this draft directive. I think we owe this position to the small businessmen in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18044	Mrs Mag. Grossmann's motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore in consultation. The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18069	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The present template is part of the announced tsunami consequence, is part of a tsunami law. Today, we decide on the new regulation of data protection so that we can have more opportunities and more legal certainty in the event of such a disaster. With the first speaker, Mrs Stoisits, I really felt that you are making Austria and the government the accusation that we have not been prepared for such a disaster. It was the biggest disaster that hit this world. It happened on a holiday, another ten hours flight time away from us. We couldn't have pulled all the records. I have to confess, not everything was successful, but a lot. The government has joined forces, diplomacy has set everything in motion and has tried to live up to the original reports that have by far not spoken out the way it then turned out. Hundreds, thousands, hundreds of thousands of people had to leave their lives, there were missing and injured people who could only be found more in hospitals, and more. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that this disaster has been dealt with so exemplaryly. And because today the travel agencies are talking about, I have to say that I don't know if anyone wants their data to be reported on the question of where they are going. I also do not know whether every travel agency has all the data available from every traveler and knows where it is and where it is going. Many book only one flight and then travel on, book the next flight and more. So it is not easy to achieve that, I just want to say that in the middle of the order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The German army and the basic defense servants were also addressed. The basic defense servants were available and did the best. They stand for immediate action, for immediate use in the sum and make their contribution. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's still going on!]] Some time later, corresponding staff, psychologists et cetera, were employed. [[Abg. Scheibner: At six months it becomes more difficult!]] We have heard, ladies and gentlemen, the timing. [[Abg. Scheibner: Still!]] – We are still in a position to do so, and I think that the basic defence servants will do so with a six-month training. The ministers of defence of past times will certainly be able to respect and confirm this. [[Abg. Scheibner: This will show the practice first!]] What I would like to say to you is that I would like to thank the people of our country who were willing once again to donate in exemplary succession, to make money available to all who were affected by this disaster. Of course, I could say now that I am pleased that the Austrian People's Party of Upper Austria was able to provide €3,000 twice – twice as much as €3,000 was available. Now ask why. – Because the SPÖ Oberösterreichs was condemned for their dirty dome campaign in the country election campaign, we were able to transfer €3,000 twice. This money is certainly well arranged, but it wouldn't have been necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why I think you should keep a little bit in check on this. Today's law is a first step towards tsunami law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18157	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. This means that we can vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 821 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Matznetter, colleagues on the EU directive on the patenting of computer-implemented inventions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[19:45:19]] 14. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Twenty-Seventh Report (III-79 d.a.) ==References====External links== Years until 31. (822 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18228	We now reach the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Dr. Sonnberger has been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18258	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank the lawyers – Dr. Kostelka and Ms. Bauer – and start with their employees. They all did excellent work. The report drawn up for 2003 The public prosecutorship is in turn clear, very well divided, legible and informative. [[General condolences.]] The number of attachments in turn increased by 6 percent to 15,787, with 6 561 under examination. In about two thirds of these, the Federal Government was concerned with the state and municipal administration. The audience ratio of well over 400,000 people shows that the ORF broadcast “Volksanwalt – Same Right for All” is very well accepted by the population. It is also positive to highlight the holding of spokesmen, especially in the federal states. A total of 270 spokesmen in 2003. An online complaint form via the Internet and a telephonic provision for advice and assistance seekers round off the possibilities to apply. ==References== The report contains a number of legislative suggestions resulting from the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. A separate chapter deals with fundamental rights issues to the public prosecutorship, and primarily the long procedural periods are in the foreground, not only in the field of justice and federal administration, but also in the area of municipal and regional administration. I studied with interest the proposals for the further development of the People's Prosecution, which were also sent to the Convention. This is a Ferrari solution, but there are certainly some well implemented ideas among them. I would like to thank all those involved once again for the work that I think is very much appreciated by all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18306	Next, Mr Marizzi. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18328	Madam President. My treasured folk lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start by thanking my group to the lawyers and their employees for the work done. I believe that the Members of this House appreciate the work of the Volksanwälte also in that they are also supported by the work of the Volksanwälte in their district, whether in the case of speech, whether in the case of interlocutors, or in the case of information service. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there is a lot of work behind these reports which we last discussed in the Constitutional Committee. It can be said with pride that the work of the Volksanwälte here in Parliament every year has been given a special award. As has been said, not only is there a lot of work and solution of the lawyers behind it, but there are also many individual fates behind it. My colleague has already mentioned the figures. There were 15 787 applications, 6 561 of which were subject to an examination procedure. – You can be proud of that. More staff has been provided to the public prosecutors, but we do not yet have the international level that the lawyers want. But we're on the right track. The increases are huge every year. There is also a reduction in the duration of the proceedings. If you've been watching the last broadcast on TV last Saturday, you can only say: small causes – great effect. It was sensational, like the example with the Salzburg advertising area It has been solved. I also believe that the TV broadcast “Volksanwaltschaft” helps to highlight the work of our lawyers in particular. It's a good current account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18373	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Chief. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, I now have both eyes closed.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18410	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The report of the Public Prosecutor's Office today is like all of its reports, one that should give us all here in Parliament, but also very many in the Austrian administration to reflect. In contrast to my previous speaker, Peter Marizzimöche, I said: From my point of view, it would be helpful not only to have the Saturday broadcast of the Volksanstalts, but also perhaps a direct transmission of the debate on the People's Prosecution's Report at a non-nightly time, because I simply believe that many individual cases and citizens, which are included in this report, deserved to be discussed even before a wider public than in my 20-year-old parliamentary experience is usually happening in my case. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Please, Mr. Haupt! Not at 8:00!]] [[Abg. Mandak: When are you going to sleep, colleague?]] I believe that the television broadcast for the public prosecutor's office and for the concerns expressed there, even if one sees the frequency of the cases, was quite positive and fertilizing, because many citizens who had doubts about the rule of law of our state and about the proper handling and discharge of their concerns here received an incentive and were told that there are still instances in this state to which it is worth turning. I would also like to express my express thanks to Mr Kostelka for the good cooperation with the People's Union during the time when I was at the head of a ministry in the administration. I think I can say, at least from my point of view, that we have been able to achieve very good results in the area of people with disabilities, but also in the case of victims' care cases, which have often remained for decades, and here we have been able to make a lot easier for citizens for their future lives, which the administrations in the past have seen differently here, not to say more small than the letter of the law actually provided for in the interpretation, taking into account the interests of the citizens. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to turn to a special chapter, where I myself am a person concerned and which is also the subject of this report, namely the chapter on the fund for hepatitis C diseases. Mr. Volksanwalt! I believe that the promotion of the People's Procuratorate, the existing fund for the victims, who today come to the benefit of this fund as a blood donor or as a plasma donor, clearly goes beyond the target. If, for example, there are 128 000 known diseases in Austria today, with the existing funds of the Fund, which are partially fed by the economy, the whole group is to be thought of, then it can be calculated that the funds would clearly be insufficient, and this would be contrary to the interests of the increasing group of those who have been harmed as blood or plasma donors themselves. I believe that we will have to find a way here in the context of social legislation as a whole to better deal with chronically ill people. I agree with your concern to extend the group of persons, but I do not agree to be limited only to the fund with its current resources, but I believe that there should be a new way of dealing with special health insurance schemes for chronically ill people. In this context, I also have a special request to our representatives of Vienna here in the House: Finally, please also work to ensure that the Vienna road traffic regulations for public transport finally remove that section, according to which patients subject to the Epidemiology Act may not use public transport! If it is empty artis, then in Vienna, as a hepatitis C disease, you should not go by metro, not by tram and not by bus. I believe that this is a system that is simply obsolete, and it should not be difficult for the municipality of Vienna to bring this point out of its transport regulations for the Vienna public.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18468	Next is Mrs Mag. Stoistis. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18490	Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. I did not pay close attention to all the previous speakers, but I assume that everyone at the public prosecutor's office thanked you – with you as representatives of the public prosecutor's office, and that is, with all their employees – for the work done between the one and the next report. And as we have heard several times now, the work will not be less, but it will become more – although the public prosecutorship actually has less jurisdiction from year to year. But – and I would like to thank you very much for that – even if politics does not treat the public prosecutor's office as it would like it to do with its competences, its possibilities, the public prosecutor's office has expanded its own field of work in recent years, and I would particularly like to point out the fundamental legal part of the report, which is, so to speak, the youngest child in the report. For us, this is a very essential support for work, especially in view of the fact that it is for those colleagues who are involved and active in human rights issues when it comes to fundamental rights and human rights awareness in the Austrian administration – but not only in the administration, but also in the judicial system, which is, so to speak, not just in the administration. Their task is – goes, often necessary, to point out that this is, unfortunately, sometimes extremely inadequate. That is why these reports, which the People's Procuratorate submits, are, so to speak, with the view of the objective, but not impartial – because you are taking a party, namely, for those who turn to you and also point to shortcomings here – I believe that it is a very valuable aid, even in the effort to bring fundamental rights awareness not only to the administration and to the judiciary, but also to the politics. The fundamental right part of the report is, I would say, the most exemplary thing we have to do here in the National Council, because there is no such thing as a human rights report or fundamental rights report from other departments. In some resorts, of course, problems are referred to, but there is no classification. That is why I am particularly grateful for this part of the report and I have already considered, as chairman of the Human Rights Committee, how this committee could be closely linked to the public prosecutor's office and its activities. I will make the proposal for next year to see if we can discuss this part of the report separately, as the colleagues who may be interested in the Human Rights Committee or in their position of interest in this issue may also want to deal with it here. I would like to draw up today a point that you have prepared in the report, and that is the question of the obligation to pay in administrative proceedings in the granting of procedural assistance. I already know that I do not make myself popular with this at the Administrative Court, because I already hear: completely overburdened!, and: does not get along with the work so to speak!, but please, what is unfair remains unfair, even though the Administrative Court still has so much work. And this cost risk that the complainants have to bear – always in contrast to the Constitutional Court – is simply a barrier and is out – what should I call that? – equality issues are not acceptable. And – for you to know this – we in the Green Group have also considered making a legal excuse here in order to point out to Parliament that lack of information, for it is obvious that it is too little that the People's Procuratorate does so, for a doctrine has not been drawn – as with so many other legitimate suggestions. Now my last observation – it concerns the legitimate suggestions. I did not share the documentation from the committee at that time – but Mrs Volksanwälter was present – because, as it were, I quoted legitimate suggestions. These are like a hiking pot. Sometimes I have the feeling, since there is the public prosecutor's office, that suggestions are made there, and they are persistently ignored. I think it is admirable that you continue to stay there when there are complaints, and it also shows somehow that the relationship between the National Council and the People's Procuratorate – which is an institution of the Parliament, the National Council – is not “burdened”, but that we are simply making too little out of the experience that you give us on the road. I have complained annually since I was in Parliament, and it changes too little. Now I think you have to start with yourself, pick up on the – although not existing – scratches and try, so to speak, to lift the self-confidence of the parliamentarians and also the political groups by a new initiative, because I am so pleased that the show on Saturday in the early evening is a real quota hit – and that is really what you can say, a quota hit not only for the public prosecutors, but also for the ORF; there are therefore several beneficiaries of it – and so little does the National Council take the suggestions and the work of the People's Procuratorate – that is my assessment – also true. [[Abg. Großruck: “Communitative vessels ” are called such a thing!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am proud of the People's Procuratorate, the three Volksanwälte, their work and also the work of the staff, and I would like to conclude that I now have to say almost those ideas that are in the context of the Austrian Convention: God blessed him! – since the discussion was thrown into the debate, how to change structures and install only a popular lawyer, nothing can win off. I would also like to say, Mr Volksanwalt Stadler, that I am pleased with this and hope that some of the legitimate suggestions will be taken up and many of the problems raised to you will be solved in a sovereign way as before. [[Abg. Oils: I don't!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18545	The next speaker was Mrs Grander. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18563	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen, With the annual report of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Parliament, the Public Prosecutor's Office not only provides impressive proof of performance, but provides important information to the National Council and the Federal Council. Contact with the National Council is not only limited to annual reporting, but also cooperates with the National Council's Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. For almost 28 years now, the Public Prosecutor's Office has been offering a sought-after point of contact for citizens. It not only supports those concerned but also plays a significant role in the role of intermediaries between the authorities and citizens. The citizens are always at the centre of the public prosecutors and the employees of the People's Procuratorate. If you read these reports, it simply communicates to the reader. It facilitates citizens' access to often very complex law. The public prosecutor's area of responsibility ranges from simple advisory activities to concrete examinations of the complaints made to them. ==References====External links== Report of the People's Procuratorate a series of legal suggestions resulting from the activity. In some areas, the People's Procuratorate has already been successful with its suggestions – as in the past. I only mention the examples of animal welfare law, child care allowance for multiple births and federal home contract law et cetera. Due to direct contact, law failures can be detected very quickly and subsequently remedied. In the weekly ORF broadcast of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which has already been addressed several times, reports are reported on particularly significant cases of their audit activity. This show is God's thanks since 2002, and we've already heard: The admission rate for the ORF is very high; the citizens are very interested in this programme. I am also grateful for the tireless work for the citizens of our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18600	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18622	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Dear Mr. Volsk lawyer! As a member of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, it is my particular concern and almost an honor to thank you, the People's Procuratorate, for presenting this excellent report. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Especially noteworthy is the excellent formal breakdown and the associated easy legibility of the report. For laymen too, this report is well understood and also often so exciting that I would like to give it to the citizens as evening readings. In part, this report is exciting, one can also smile occasionally if the mold of the office is as good as it is, and from time to time the laughter is stuck in your neck. Now I am also on a point for which I would like to thank you once again and which is particularly important to me, and that is the part of the fundamental rights that you are dealing with. This fundamental right part is important. I looked at this very carefully, and there was a really incredible, almost hairthrowing case in my mind. I'd like to tell you this briefly. Arson in a place: A gendarmerie officer apparently suspects a volunteer fireman. The volunteer fireman is so to speak perlustrated, in so far as an arrow transmitter is attached to his vehicle, i.e. to his car. The fireman notices that his car is something like it was before, goes with this arrow station – he didn't know it was an arrow transmitter, he thought it was an explosion set – to the Gendarmerie and wants to have it checked. The Gendarmerie provides the following information: We are sorry, have nothing to do with us, and refer him to the legal path, namely to civil law. Good. The arsonist has since been transferred, has been arrested. The People's Procuratorate has already taken part. The authority, and then the Federal Ministry of the Interior, but despite several requests for information from the public prosecutor's office, has more than reacted, and one had to have the impression that this approach, which is not provided with any information, is more or less accepted by the ministry. If you look closely at this absurd case, which really is fundamental rights, namely Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, you can see that this report speaks – and this is certainly not done easily – of “official lies”. That should not happen, and that this is shown, I believe, is important in a rule of law. And that this is stopped is even more important, ladies and gentlemen! Next, I noticed that many cases have affected the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, namely in the field of driving licences, driver's rights. We had the driver's license law on the agenda today, and in this report we can find that very many driver's license holders are being denied driver's rights and that there is also a lot in the arsenal. It has already been reported by Volksanwalt Kostelka to us in the committee. There is also a need for action, and I hope that the suggestions of Federal Minister Gorbach will be recorded as soon as possible so that something happens, because the car is a very important mobile base for many people. [[Abg. Scheibner: Sure! Sure!]] For example, it depends on whether they get to work in good time – we do not have public transport everywhere as we would wish – and it means a lot of freedom for many. The withdrawal of the steering authority is therefore quite restrictive in today's life. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again for your chapter – this includes more than 20 pages – “further development of the People’s Procuratorate”. I can tell you for myself and for my group: In most points we will support you. We wish you every success! Our support is yours! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18666	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18688	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwalt! My colleague, Mr President, has already expressed my express thanks and recognition for your work on behalf of my group. I believe that just the record figures of complaints each year show that one has confidence in the public prosecutor's institution. I don't think that the administration is getting worse, but trust in the public prosecutorship is getting more and more on the rise. This means that the citizen has the feeling that when he turns to the public prosecutor's office with a complaint that is useful and that something is also done in the matter. In my opinion, we in the National Council would have the obligation to discuss the reports of the public prosecutors more quickly than before and also to ensure that the ministries and administrative bodies concerned react more quickly and consistently to the recommendations of the public prosecutors than has been the case in the past. A word about the future of the People's Procuratorate: From my point of view, it is nice that all the political groups in this House would like to thank the public prosecutors and offer their support. I think it would be necessary, however, to do the same with the outcome of the Convention, which will soon be here in the House, so to speak, and I also assume that all the political groups in this House are voting for the People's Prosecution to be maintained in its current stock, with the three national lawyers, because I think a reduction to a popular attorney, as some have suggested, would not be in the interests of the citizens. [[General condolences.]] The complainants want to come into contact with the Volksanwalt/Volksanwaltin – and not with, of course, also deserving, officials or office leaders. You want the direct contact. In the case of the large number of complaints in the speeches, it is necessary to leave the prosecutors in their number. From my point of view, this is indispensable! We should see what needs there are on the part of the Volksanwälte in order to make their work even more efficient. We should talk about this in the relevant committee on the outcome of the Convention, but not about whether to make a reduction in the public prosecutor's office, on the basis of forward-looking spasm arguments, as I think.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18734	If Mr Scheuch stopped calling now, Mr Oellinger could go to the speaker's desk. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18786	Mr President. I almost agree, but I do not want to make it dependent on Mr Scheuch's phone calls. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the People's Procuratorate, ladies and gentlemen, and thus a word of "criticism" to my predecessor and party colleague Teresa Stoisits: She thanked everyone. I would also do so, yes, in principle, but on this occasion, although this is not a point in this report, I would like to stress – and I am really sorry that Mr Volksanwalt Stadler is not here today – that something is in an unpleasant memory to me, a reminder that is so strong, because Mr Stadler, in the report of the Public Prosecutor for the year 2001 concerning his visit to the Stein penitentiary – and we have discussed today about the point of the belt bed – has delivered a report – please, Mr Scheibner, I am not doing it polemically. – which in no way corresponded to the realities related to the belt bed in stone. [[Abg. Scheibner: I prefer the speech of Mrs. Stoisits!]] Today, thanks to the Minister of Justice Miklauch, your party colleague – and I am also talking about the lips – we have a report from a committee of experts that opposes 100 percent of what Mr Stadler then held. [[Abg. Scheibner: I hope so! It can't be that hard!]] That was a clean-washing report, and I am very glad that at that time – I remembered it as a unique one – in the report of the People's Procuratorate Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka has exercised its right to different opinions. Otherwise, this would have been something – with the opinion of Mr Stadler at the time – which the public prosecutor's office as an institution would not have done well. But by the way, I assume that Mr Stadler – just like the two other lawyers – is making efforts and commitment to his work. I am still full of praise and gratitude for the reports of the People's Procuratorate and now I only briefly take four points out. Point one: As regards the public work of the Federal Government, it is stated in the report and its members there is a need for regulation. - Yes! Thank you, fellow lawyers, we believe so. The fact that two, three, four days before the election, members of the government are soon discovering that they want to communicate their public work in an accountable report to voters is unacceptable! . The fact that the People's Procuratorate has given its opinion on this in a very good opinion from an occasion – this is what Mrs Foreign Minister said – because there was a complaint I think is good. Point two: Pension insurance – I find out what the public prosecutor has worked out in a very detailed and also laborious search –: If the time limits for invalidity pensions until they are completed are eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve months to the positive completion, this is unacceptable! If the People's Procuratorate takes a step forward and says: Yeah, wait, just think about it. How has the merger of pension insurance institutions been presented to us? – More efficiency, shorter procedures! If this is the exact opposite as an intermediate result, then there is something wrong with it. If it continues to be – the year 2003 that refers to this year is over! – there are overlong procedures at the pension insurance institution, something can't be right! It's your job as a government party – not only because the public prosecutor has found it, but because tens of thousands of people depend on it! – to change something about it. Third point: Unemployment insurance. – I think it’s great that the People’s Procuratorate finds out – again in a very detailed search –: On the one hand, people don't get the courses they want and need – that's where the public prosecutor says very differentiated: Yes, that won't always go, the resources are limited! – but if someone makes a course on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, for example, on social management at the university, the AMS says: Hold, you're doing the course yourself, we didn't order you, we don't have a course that suits you, but you can't do one yourself! This is a reason to remove unemployment benefit. – With this statement, the People’s Procuratorate puts its finger on a completely wounded point, because that is really unacceptable. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that then, when people become themselves initiative and strive for qualification, because for monetary reasons the AMS does not actually manage, partly but also because it does not do it because it prefers to be people in any senseless job coaching that does nothing to most people – but be it! – so if people work hard on themselves and do something for their qualification, the answer is that they are being removed from the unemployment allowance, although the law is in force, then I must say: Thank you, dear lawyers, it is good that there is the People's Procuratorate who also draws attention to it because it is a really unsustainable state!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18847	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18869	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The work of the People's Procuratorate cannot be honoured high enough. The People’s Procuratorate is also a resting pole or even a “blitz diver” between politics and those responsible for the execution. Let me conclude by saying that in addition to the many cases the public prosecutor has to deal with in judicial and administrative proceedings, many cases, namely 3,336 cases examined, have not given rise to any objection. I would also like to make the reverse close to the fact that the employees in the public service also do quite an excellent job. In any case, there is legitimate concern behind that – that goes quite deeply into the depth, into the interpersonal, that is not a question – but I believe that the employees have also done excellent work. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1979, as far as I know, Salzburg was the first country to make use of its law, to also leave control in the state and local administration to the public prosecutor's office. I'm very proud of it. Among other things, a black head of state has also responded to the delays in the proceedings, which have long been the subject of proceedings. In Salzburg, an investment was made. Accelerating law has decided to take very strong account of the project, especially the concentration of procedures, and thus procedures can be handled more quickly. I would like to see the People's Procuratorate coming back and forth – but unfortunately this is not possible – also expressing on political issues, for example, if, after a year of red government in Salzburg, a targeted recoloration in the government structures is taking place, that there has been a long hesitation and sage in connection with the Olympic application, that a missing transport policy is being made, that cuts in youth work and in skigymnasia are taking place, that a lack of commitment is also evident in the maintenance of our barracks sites and that no health plan is on the table. All these things have to be determined after a year of red leadership! There is no leadership, ladies and gentlemen. Just being nice is too little. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I also say quite openly: All the more interesting is this public prosecutor's report. My compliment for this great work!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18917	The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18938	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwalt! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have read today's newspaper report that Mr Scheuch reviewed and commented on the SPÖ's celebration of the 1970 commemoration, when the Social Democrats reached the relative majority. However, I would like to thank Mr Scheibner, who generally praised the People's Procuratorate, without any fractional difference. This shows that there is still a need to recapture Mr Scheuch with regard to the history of the recent past. It was Kreisky who helped to install the People's Procuratorate. Parliament then, of course, decided together, no question. But an absolute majority was necessary to initiate this law enforcement and to install Volksanwälte. [[Abg. Neudeck: He took up a liberal idea! Social democracy was still involved at that time!]] I too am one of those, ladies and gentlemen, who have deep respect for the work of the lawyers. 15,000 cases have to be dealt with first! It is therefore important to know what extension of competence would be necessary from the point of view of lawyers in order to ensure the effectiveness of their daily work and what instruments other comparable institutions in Europe have which we do not yet have and whose creation we should consider. Ladies and gentlemen! 15,000 cases in different forms must be dealt with first, and if you read this report you will find examples of where to ask yourself: You need a popular lawyer to do that? An example: An authority, a district headquarters, sees a company with 15 employees, an authorised company in the process of towing and craneing, so to speak, pressed to the wall by the volunteer fire brigade. It has not seen any reason for that authority to intervene. The People's Procuratorate then directed it. So you believed the district fire brigade commander more than the entrepreneur who made sure it was possible to pay 15 salaries on time. That is why I believe that the public prosecutor's institution is more necessary than ever. I don't think any of any reductions to a popular lawyer and a deputy either. The proposal: The President determines Parliament, the plenary here in the National Council, the representative of the Federal Council!, I can't afford anything. I even think about how to handle it in the future if you have three national lawyers, but two strong and two weaker parties. In my opinion, then, one should treat this parity, because a popular lawyer is better for this country than one less. What seems to me particularly difficult with these proposals is the following: If a government decides a chairman with the help of its majority in Parliament, I believe that almost 50 per cent of the population wishing to turn to a confidant of their vote are excluded. These would then have problems making complaints. I thank the People's Procuratorate. Finally, I ask colleagues to think about Scheuch before he makes fun of celebrations, remembering what those people whom he criticises have done in the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18997	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19019	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Every year, the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office clearly shows what misunderstandings there are in Austria, and these abuses are not new every year, but they are the abuses that have existed for decades and where there is no willingness to finally create legal foundations so that these abuses can no longer occur. The steady increase in the number of cases in the public prosecutorry has shown in recent years that there has been a substantial reduction in the number of cases when it comes to the rights of citizens in Austria. I would like to give some very specific examples. If you look at the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office from 1995 to 2000, you can see that the spectrum of civil service has never been found in reports from the public prosecutor's office, because it has worked half way. But since the year 2000, the number of young men reporting to the People's Procuratorate and requesting support has increased so much in the past four years because the situation for civil service leaders has become so massively worse that they usually have little more chance of getting out with their incomes. This is also evident in this report. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I believe that you must finally understand that we in Austria need a civil service scheme that ensures that all civil servants – regardless of the institution they work at and from which federal they come – are treated as military servants: in particular, in terms of food. Basic defenses, which cannot be held in the barracks today, receive a corresponding food allowance under the Army Fees Act, which is currently € 13.60 per day. Civil service providers, on the other hand, are usually fed down with 4 to 6 € per day, and this is an blatant inequality that finally belongs to eliminate! [[Abg. Scheibner: That is not true, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] I expect that after the reform of the Civil Service Act, there will finally be a need for civilian service providers to get at least € 13.60 a day in food money, so as to ensure the financing of food. If you don't believe what problems there are in the civil service sector, you only need to look at the decisions of the Constitutional Court and he only needs to read the People's Procuratorate's report, there he will be able to find it. I am glad that the People's Procuratorate has taken up this area, as well as the area of people with disabilities, where it is still – unfortunately! – very, very big misunderstandings exist and where those affected have to fight for months, yes, for years for their rights. I also take an example of this now so that you can see how bad the situation is. If today a care worker/care benefit worker has to live in a special institution – in an old-age home, in a disabled home or anywhere – and in the hospital, then the care allowance will not be paid to the institution for this time. – This is correct because the institution does not take care of it in this case. But – and now it comes! – during this time, the pocket money will also be deleted from the prisoner/inmate of this institution! That is, if today someone has to spend two months – or even only four weeks – in the hospital all the time, then at that time, if he is not entitled to his own pension at the same time, he has zero cents to eat! He can't buy soap, a toothbrush, or anything else! This should finally be regulated so that people who have to live in special facilities will receive at least so much money that they can have a decent existence. And that doesn't just refer to bed, night castle and maybe once a day a warm meal. – This is about fundamental rights, and these must also be granted to people who are inmates and inmates of special institutions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19075	Mr Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19096	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The People's Procuratorate has received thanks from all the political groups in this House. This allows for a short time – and, I would say, I would even be obliged to do so. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I I too can thank you very much for your work as a Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Generations and for the always constructive cooperation with the People's Procuratorate. If I think on my own that it was possible to create a pension claim for those who had already entered the profession with significant diseases and were later unable to engage in a professional activity, it was a milestone on which we had moved for a number of years. But I can also add with all the clarity: It is the public prosecutor's job not to be satisfied. In this context, for example, I should like to remind you of the necessary reform of the crime victim law which we are discussing. That's what I'm talking about. But also a harmonisation of the social assistance laws, which are extremely heterogeneous, should be started, as the current situation is not really satisfactory. Mr Ex-Bundesminister! We have proposed that the compensation should be extended in relation to hepatitis C. If you cut things this way, I can add from my point of view that both the entire area of hepatitis and other such diseases as well as the entire vaccine damage law are re-thinked. We are willing to enter into discussions in this context. It is clear to me that Austria needs to adapt and threatens to fail to follow international development. Mrs Stoisits! Thank you many times for the kind remarks on the fundamental right part of our report. There was also a comment in Mrs Wurm's speech. They wished for a separate discussion. This is a legitimate desire, and the public prosecutorship will not object to it in any way. On the contrary: It was a decision of this House that the People's Procuratorate may submit only one activity report per year. We must therefore summarise our results and proposals. If it were to be agreed that the People's Procuratorate could also present special reports to the National Council, it would be useful, for example, to draw up a separate human rights report and discuss it in the Human Rights Committee. One of the weaknesses of our current discussion is that we have to deal with the entire range of public prosecutors' examination activities in a single report. I also give the honourable Member Stoisits with regard to the problem of reimbursement of costs in the event of a negative outcome of an administrative court procedure in the event of the loss of a process law: Ladies and gentlemen, you have to imagine the following: There someone has made a final instance and wants to - because without income - call the administrative court. An examination shall be carried out of the expediency of the award of a procedural aid lawyer in this procedure. The sensuality of the conduct of the trial is explicitly confirmed by judges, and then the procedure whatever happens here and there is unfortunately also - lost, and someone who is really one of the poorest of the poor must in this case replace the costs of the proceedings by the obsessive authority. This is inconceivable, not with regard to the proceedings carried out by means of procedural assistance at the Constitutional Court, but very likely before the Administrative Court. We should remain in this context. It is also obvious that what Mrs Wurm has been talking about, namely the fact that there is no uniform assessment by experts in the field of driving licences, in particular those in the Federal Republic of Germany, is also a problem. We therefore urge this to be so clear, because the procedure is extremely heterogeneous. In some districts of this Republic, the official is what the law gives him, namely, a medical professional. In some other districts, however, it is the case that the professional doctor acts as if he were the authority himself and could enforce a law as this House did not decide, namely, that there are time limits which are not covered by the driving licence law and the regulations adopted for this purpose. Mr Scheibner! It is true that the public prosecutor's acquaintance is relatively high – with about 75 percent international even extraordinarily high. This is one of the positive effects of TV broadcasting. I can also say quite openly in this circle: The second important impact of positive nature is that the administration also takes our criticism more seriously. There is a level playing field between public prosecutors and administration in this context. Mr Oellinger! Let me say it in all silence and with all reluctance, but in all clarity: The Public Prosecutor's Office has not submitted any Stone Special Report. However, what you see in connection with the delays in the procedure at the pension insurance institution is correct. We have to report regretfully that in the meantime – in 2004 and also at the beginning of 2005 – the duration of completion has only slightly improved, but we have not yet reached the average duration of proceedings given before the merger of the two pension insurance institutions. It has been done to use synergies to reduce procedural duration. – Unfortunately, this has not been possible so far. Mrs Haidlmayr! You have the right to delete the allowance in the event of a stay in hospitals in the care allowance – and only in the care allowance – because, in the case of an injunction to a hospital, the entire care allowance rests and food and care services are provided by the hospital. But it is not true that this is the case with the pension: Of course, the pocket money remains. Should it not have been so in the case mentioned by you, I would ask you, with all the emphasis, to inform the public prosecutor that the public prosecutorship is available for the initiation of an examination procedure. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19178	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Before I come to the vote, I shall grant Mr Scheuch to call Mrs Mag. Trunk, in which he called it a “needer, ” a call for order. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But he said it several times! Maybe you could make two of them!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of this report III-79 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this adoption to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. [[20:39:55]] 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-77, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors on sub-areas of the conduct of the Federal Government (818 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19226	We're now on the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19258	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Around €90 million this blue-black government has been squandering for advertising and consulting in recent years, and it is threatening to add €60 million in 2005 and 2006. [[Abg. Neudeck: The head needs that in a month!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] The motto, colleague Neudeck, seems to be: Despite millions of policy advice, politics is bad, but that doesn't matter to you: That's where you just increase advertising expenditure, because paying does it anyway to taxpayers. – This is your motto, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP! And you're gonna fail! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. You don't believe that!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: In Vienna he has the Absolute!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] The Court of Auditors already recommended guidelines for advertising in 2003 – you are about to laugh from the FPÖ – as far as advertising is concerned. I just call the seven points two: One thing is of course: that advertising should be economical, economic and useful when it comes to financing public work – and, in fact, information – and that the impression must be avoided that an influence is in favour of a party. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the advisory agreements are concerned, ex-President Fiedler was already very clear, who said that half could be saved. – That was a noble calculation. President of the Court of Auditors Josef Moser also says: What about the officials in the ministries? Why is the financial procuratorship not used? What about the Constitutional Service? And why – for God's sake! – does not one even set up a cost-benefit bill in the case of consulting contracts? The demands of the Court of Auditors are therefore clear: It needs guidelines, and it needs principles. What do the parties say, ladies and gentlemen? – ==References====External links== In June 2003, the liberals, too, now advocate a clear policy advertising regime, as proposed by the President of the Court of Auditors Franz Fierce. So, the memory, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, has been with you for years. It can't be like that! Mr. State Secretary Morak – he will hopefully confirm this today, if he is man enough to stand up to his word – did so on 19 March. January 2005 said that, of course, there is a need for directives on advertising and advisory contracts. That is to say, the FPÖ is in favour of it, the ÖVP is for it, and the Greens, together with the SPÖ, are bringing in a resolution on it. I cannot imagine anything but that, if all the parties are in favour, there will be the majority here, yes the unanimity. This motion for a resolution clearly deals with rules and principles as regards advertising and advisory contracts, as the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Josef Moser, has also suggested, in some way. He just asked the National Council to do something. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Again: This request is about meeting a demand which is presented by top representatives of FPÖ, ÖVP, the Greens and SPÖs. You can then take the proof in the vote whether you are even interested in economy, whether you take your own statements seriously, which you make in the public and in committees, and – I believe that this is the most important thing! – whether you still have respect and respect for the Court of Auditors in any form. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for the work it is doing, and I am trying to support it with motions for resolutions, as well as the Greens. I fear that you will only be grateful by the ÖVP and the FPÖ and say that consequences – “putz light”, that is done then, essentially we say thanks for the work. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Fear is a bad path guide!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19375	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Kräber, who has been read by the honourable Member, Dr Kräuser, Mag. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are negotiating. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19452	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19473	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In comparison with his contributions in the committees, Mr Herzegovina is continuing to give bad light to the advertising campaigns of the Federal Government, but does not deal with the content of the Court of Auditors reports. I believe that at this point we should discuss the Court of Auditors' reports and not continue to deal with the same issue. It is about consulting services in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology and about the introduction of the truck toll system in Austria. Advice services have been used. There was pressure at the system launch. In retrospect it could be said that these advisory services have paid off, the toll system works. Nevertheless, we don't make it that easy. At the time, a working group was installed with the Federal Minister other than Service Forstinger under the chairmanship of a lawyer and external adviser and representatives of the Federal Ministries. The Court of Auditors clearly pointed out that, from its point of view, competent officials in the section should have been involved. There were errors in the awarding and documenting of orders, and the Court of Auditors also recommended that internal presidencies should be installed. There were, therefore, certain shortcomings which were clearly identified, and the Court of Auditors also noted at the outset that it was necessary to comply with the budgetary rules and not to award orders orally. The Court of Auditors therefore complained and pointed out once again that internal resources should be used. There has been advice in the past – including among other government constellations – and there will continue to be advisory services in the future when it comes to bringing in special knowledge and special competence. However, it also needs a clear definition and description of the tasks. It needs contractual foundations, and of course that must comply with the Federal Procurement Act. The Court of Auditors report in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology also includes some positive aspects. Thus, the cost framework, which was set at €350, was clearly observed. Only € 206 330 were consumed – 59 percent of the estimated budget. State Secretary Mainoni has also said that legal procurement guidelines were regulated internally in the ministry by internal restructuring and by an additional internal audit body. In total, it can be said that errors and shortcomings have been identified, that the Ministry has responded internally and that, of course, it is necessary to deal with the award of consulting contracts in the future very targeted and even very carefully. It will probably be useful where it needs special knowledge and expertise. It will be useful where there are job tips and larger projects, and I believe it will also be useful where objectivity, transparency and a certain degree of independence are required. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz:... Information person!]] It's working on it. We accept this report, Mr Pilz, and do not see concealment or similar, but the Court of Auditors is putting things objectively on the table, and the ministries are required to implement these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19510	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19531	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! You always wonder why the objectivity is stressed, but does not find it in the club door of the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would also be helpful, otherwise you would not give this rejection to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Herz. But actually, I wanted to start with something else. I quote from the budget speech of 2. "Tax evasion is not a cavalier offence. It is theft at the general public.” [[Abg. Oellinger: He didn't say!]] The attention has now been paid to the fact that this is a quote from the written contribution, which is available to you all who have been distributed but who have been left out in the oral remarks. Now you're wondering: Was that a good advisor or was that a bad advisor who wrote it in? This question can really be asked. But one thing is clear: The Minister of Finance is in a way resistant to advice that it is not at all acceptable for him to throw out one million of the other for consulting contracts to the window, if he cannot even pronounce this clear, simple, but possibly only correct sentence of this budget speech! What does this Minister of Finance need such an advisor, what do we need such a Minister of Finance? – Harm for money! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And that's why you should go inside and stop these practices. I am serious about the matter – although it was already serious enough – and I am allowed to reflect the Court of Auditors' report on the subject of the Ministry of Finance in matters of advisory contracts. All ministries are not particularly praised in this report, but it has been reserved for the Ministry of Finance – we are saving ourselves!, it was said – to buy all the sum according to the highest advisory services. Counseling hours fees for both project managers and employees: always above average. Mr Finz, you have once again taken over the noble task of defending all of this. I don't know if They speak, perhaps the tradition of July of the previous year continues. We remember: All are taxable – only the Minister of Finance is not. Leave S’ prefer to stay, you won’t make friends with that! So: The Ministry of Finance is highly expensive, according to this report. But that's not a miracle at all. Why is that? Let us take a look at the awarding practice for consulting contracts and take back the Ministry of Finance. Price question: How much percent was the price criterion in the Ministry of Finance regularly weighted? Among the criteria for selecting: 50 percent, 70 percent, 30 percent? [[Abg. Big truck: 200 percent!]] It's all wrong, stop it with the shames, it's all wrong! – 10 percent! There is no need to wonder why the most expensive is invited to offer as high a price as possible. Whether the quality criteria found here are actually applicable, let's look at them. Do we, for example, have such quality criteria that those who receive the advisory order will immediately run to the next university professor and award a super job? – A wonderful practice! Why is this not more transparent and implemented under one, and why is it not first – and that is now – determined: What's the expertise in the house? Is still too little party political change, or what? – And this in a Ministry of Finance, which is constantly talking about saving and brightening the citizens with their stupid-duscious propaganda battles! Let us take a short look at the point. That's the problem: Saving, saving, saving, saving, and then most of the money – I'm sorry, Mr. State Secretary – will be pulverised at the window of your house. I think this is irresponsible! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] What do you mean, that's not true? The fact that the Chamber of Commerce is becoming a defender of such obscenities is not understandable to me either, but you make it up with yourself. I only advise you to listen to the President of the Court of Auditors, and then I invite him to comment on it, as I did in the Committee; an excellent committee meeting, by the way; if you want to, you will bring together the comparative figures of the ministries. You'll see: World Champion Summit – as we always get ahead of it here – so World Champion Summit in the money outpouring for mostly pointless consulting contracts for the operation of friends groups! - And that's what you cover?- Oh, my God! Congratulations! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That can't be true!]] And that, although the Ministry of Finance would actually have a competent, so-called downstream department in the house: the financial procuratorship. What do we have these for? There is the possibility in the house to carry out calls for tenders and to submit the technical advice itself. – Everything doesn’t make sense, everything is not possible, that’s the line in your house, the main thing, the money will be thrown out. There must be no wonder that then – and now I come to the second point of this motion for a resolution – always needs to be taken up in high-gloss brochures, in television advertising on campaigns such as “relief for all” that are released to the population. [[Abg. Bucher: Information! No campaign!]] You know what? We have already identified between € 1 million and € 2 million, which has achieved this pointless campaign for the population only annoyed. To date, it has not been possible to get through what holiday destinations have been negotiated, where the television viewers can then go if they are given a daily chance in the evening TV programme that they can now go on holiday after the blessings of the tax reform somewhere, perhaps to Italy. Do you know what the obscene is about history? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: And why are so many driving?]] - Screams You don't have anything to do with social competence, we know! - I'm just telling you: 2.2 million people in Austria do not receive any euro from this tax reform! And you go here and talk about “Relief for All ”! This is not only stupid propaganda, but misuse of tax resources to trick taxpayers! That's not tolerable, and that's right here! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm about to do, not because you're beginning to interpret, but because otherwise more is going to break on you. [[towards ÖVP]] We don't want to. Go inside and we'll start the debate again tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19669	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19691	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to begin by thanking the Court of Auditors for the very professional and detailed report on the years 2000 and 2001. I would like to remind you of the opposition that it was two years that were crucial for the Austrian financial and economic situation. If you are looking at the government programme, you will see that it was necessary to send a whole series of changes and in-course setting measures on the journey, which mainly changed the financial policy in Austria. It has proved to be a positive change – as we see today – even in the years that followed. Today, we are in the happy situation that Austria is among the top three economic and labour locations compared to the other European Member States. This is an outflow of these services, to which one should actually have a positive relationship in the consideration. Of course, the Court of Auditors has criticized some shortcomings that we have also commented on. We also say that the amount of one or other advisory service may not have been justified, but I say to the accusations made by my colleague from the Green Group that, if one throws the money out of the window, it often comes back to the door – as in this particular case – through very sensible and significant divestments of federal assets. [[Abg. Oils: Really?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Try this once!]] Therefore, we are convinced that the understanding of the Minister of Finance and his cabinet, which is due to the shortcomings, is reassuring for us that such mistakes will no longer be made in the future and that there will also be accompanying support for all the consultation processes that will take place in the future. We shall therefore take note of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19754	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19775	Mr President! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This report by the Court of Auditors once again shows how generously the government is dealing with taxpayers' money. Two billion schillings will be spent on consulting and advertising in 2006, not with the result that the government believes that savings will be achieved – that is not possible in the overall view – but possibly with the result that employees will be released. This is certainly not an intelligent policy. Part of this report is the reorganisation of the federal procurement, which I would like to devote shortly. Five pages of paper, 19 paragraphs, cost point € 3.6 million – a master's achievement for waste, but it also causes great damage because today's procurement is largely more expensive than the time before the federal procurement, the centralist procurement, because the regional economy is pushed to the abyss, because regional employment is prevented and thus rural areas are destroyed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finz, the Secretary of State for Finance, informed us in the committee about what the consultant had to do with it. In concrete terms, it was necessary to determine how the resorts can be involved, what potential is possible and which product groups are possible; Product groups which, as confirmed by many experts, contradict antitrust law, favour large companies and push out small groups that hide prices and do not allow fair competition. And it is already significant how tax money to be paid by small companies and their employees is used precisely against them. I would like to comment on two comments from the procurement company, which, on the one hand, believes that its core business is to save on prices. Our research, which we have been carrying out for a long time now, has shown that most of the procurement products are now becoming more expensive than before. If the management of the company on the other hand says that the economy is not our business, then it may be that for the managing directors there is no The matter is. However, the fact is that the procurement company is at best private on the surface, but behind it stands for 100 percent of the state. I think the state has other tasks than reaching the best price. In any event, he also has the task of ensuring that small businesses can be kept alive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be interesting to hear from the representatives of the government, especially the Minister of Finance, how they see the matter, because this dual policing, on the one hand, on every occasion to conjure up rural areas and on the other hand to do everything to destroy them, is gradually becoming unbearable. I am glad that the management of the procurement company allows for mistakes and, as I have recently confirmed, that it is also interested in helping small companies. I am therefore looking forward to the agreed summit with the affected companies and would like the talks to be conducted honestly. I also wish that the common objective – at least it seems to be a common one at present – will be achieved that small businesses will be able to participate successfully in fair competition in the future. Requests from SPÖ are available in the Financial Committee, which will be discussed shortly. I invite you to consult them together, without consulting party glasses and, if you wish, make joint requests from them. It can also be requests from the government groups – if the result fits, we will be with them. I should like to invite you once again to discuss requests with us seriously, and I should like to thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19846	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19867	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This report by the Court of Auditors is characterised by the review of the award of contracts by six ministries, with the Ministry of Finance being in the foreground on the basis of the volume, but also by other ministries. The key points of criticism are moving in an area I believe is quite true for a quiet, static operation. I'll tell you what I mean. Failure to obtain or not to obtain comparative offers in due time is one of these points, the lack or insufficient documentation of the reasons for external procurement is another; also the process because some of the experts have already been brought into the homes dealing with materials before written and binding orders were issued, partly also the inadequate definition of performance, which is expected to be the target, the profile and, in principle, the use of external know-how and the purchase of services. – Points that may then apply when it comes to slightly adapting or adjusting a structure that has already been introduced. Ladies and gentlemen! What has been the task of the ministry in recent years as part of the revision of our administration, the administration processes, the organisational structures, especially the rethinking of services to citizens, has simply required spontaneity. The following measures have, in a way, come to be differentiated by the Ministries, such as those incriminated and highlighted by the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Lap: Come on the topic!]] – Mrs Colleague, I am there! Maybe not that easy for you to track it, but I'd like to help you. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is no doubt that the point is to work out the reform stage in the course of the really great need for re-examination. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I take only one example, namely the Social Ministry, where there have been decades of social-democratic ministers on the row, for example, to reform and rework many things. [[Abg. Reheis: What?]] There, for example, it was necessary to buy external thinking, a know-how, ladies and gentlemen, which makes the processes re-structured, possible to re-think. In considering the cost-benefit relationships, it is quite useful to bring in external know-how, know-how that is not available in the ministry, because one simply has not motivated the quite competent civil service for decades to approach an innovative, creative and progressive problem-solving solution. [[Abg. Oils: Do you believe what you're saying? Incredible!]] I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary to continue this work in the Ministries, that, in the international comparison, it is quite clear that the economic location has gained, that Austria has gained that the economy benefits from this reform of the stable and thus the people in our country: in the interests of jobs, prosperity and progress. [[Abg. You're a repeater!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19969	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20011	Mr President of the Court of Auditors, thank you for the report. – If Mr Kogler begins to spread his experience with the Ministry of Finance – and indeed there would be a lot to say about that – he could almost pass away from the heart, in view of the ignorance that exists not only on the side of the Ministry, but also on the side of Members, such as Mr Ledolter, Members who make themselves there and say: Thank you for the report, Mr President of the Court of Auditors; this report is good, but by the way, we believe that all that our people in the ministries have done was actually great! So go – that would be the conclusion! – back home, Mr President! – Mr Ledolter did not explicitly say that, but that was so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] It will slowly become really critical, Mr Ledolter. And if you, as proof of why this is so positive what has been done, are also mentioning the Ministry of Social Affairs, I can only say in Latin: Si tacuisses philosophus menisses! - Keep your mouth shut. [[Abg. Neudeck: But this has been a free translation!]] This has nothing to do with the Court of Auditors' report, which you also thank, Mr Ledolter, if you say that it is great that it has been outsourced! . I can now tell you what happened; this is, in a few pages summarized, also in the report. Do you know what that reminded me of after I read this, just this one passage? – The fact that there has been a contract that the Federal Minister Sickl has still given to any company. Task: Systematisation of promotion; standard order amount 11 300 €! To this end, the Court of Auditors – I quote: “The contractor put up with a delay of several months and after several origins” – now be careful, Mr Ledolter! – ‘only seven pages of written report which did not contain a contractually agreed systematisation.’ – Quotes. That means: Order not fulfilled, seven pages presented! Excuse me: And then you'll make yourself up there and say, It's good that this happens!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you really believe that?- Oh, my God! Do you know that, because of similar projects, we have carried out a committee of inquiry, in the same period when this type of contract was awarded, here in Parliament, the then colleague Kukacka, with his search for prostitutes, has made no sense in the ground and the ground?- Oh, my God! This Committee of Inquiry could not even provide a final report because Mr Kukacka as an ÖVP member was interested in more detailed research into the particular situation of prostitutes, because there was also contracts by the Ministry of Social Affairs! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] That was an immeasurable interest of colleagues in Kukacka at the time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Instead of investigating the essential things that have already been wrong at this time, but also – as I give you the right – years before, to systematize, to draw conclusions from them, any senseless things have been done! And in the meantime such commissions took place! [[Abg. Neudeck: This was part of the Euroteam thing!]] A second point, including procurement. – In 2001, the highest level was decided: The overcoloring of the main association is announced! Orders for this were awarded by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Court of Auditors noted that the relevant Section II had not even been informed! But this is the law in the ministry that could have done that too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Mr Mitterlehner, you know this anyway: The civil service there could do this ten times better! However, you are not commissioned to do so because you mistrust the civil service. You don't trust her to be able to carry something forward, so you'll be awarded orders to outsiders. Then some consulting companies work wonderfully on such contracts! And what's going on? – A “reform” of the main association, which the Constitutional Court “puts”! It's great! €200 000 to €300 000 were thus placed in the sand – and the so-called reform of the main association, which could have made the legislative section of the ministry ten times better; and probably also with the desired effect for the client, namely a recoloration of the main association! At least that would have fit legally. So you gave this assignment out of the house – and it didn't even fit legally! It's a disaster, what's happening! That's where the money's going to be thrown out! Finally, I come to the “greatest” ministry in this field at all – as I said – the heart is overcrowded: privatization of the Federal Republic of Germany; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 4 per cent of the proceeds of sale! Everyone says: Too much! But no, Minister of State Grasser, his State Secretary and all those who make themselves from ÖVP and FPÖ say: That's all right; it can't be enough! The liberal colleague Bucher meant – Woodoo-Economics pure!This is clearly the principle under which the Federal Government is working, especially the Minister for Finance: If you throw the money out the window, it's good, because it comes back in at the door! This is the “economics” of this federal government! You have to imagine that! This is what is said today by representatives of this coalition government: Hau'n ma of money outside the window, because it'll be back at the door! – Your principle is that! You said that! And it's actually like that. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's what we're going to come back to. I have brought an example here, Mr Mitterlehner: the privatisation of the Federal Republic of Germany. It would be very interesting, Mr President Moser, not only to look at what happened at the time of the sale or privatisation, but what is going on with the Federal publisher in a longitudinal analysis! I know you're no longer in charge; you can't even look in there. We all know very well: The acquirer of the Bundesverlag... – Mr. State Secretary Finz looks very interested in it; at that time he also awarded an advisory agreement in connection with the Federal Republic of Germany, namely parallel to the Ministry of Finance. The Federal publisher has now changed the owner three times – in sub-areas! The lucrative part has remained with the German acquirer, all other parts have already been sold two or three times! – To do this, you can only say: “Super-privatization”, thank you! Second example: Telekom Privateization. It's gonna be hot, and you know what I mean. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] How did that go? - Well, that's wonderful! In the course of Telekom privatisation, even with consulting contracts – it was properly invested in the stock exchange – one has seen in the last days before the stock exchange that this is not so real; this stock is too little drawn. So at the very last minute – and against the conditions indicated in the stock exchange prospectus – you have animated large investors with super discounts, but you can access them quickly. So it was, Mr. State Secretary! But: It's not just about your money, it's about the money of all taxpayers. One has animated large investors to access quickly, special discounts have been agreed, of which the New York Stock Exchange of course does not know anything, for if they had learned of it, it would have “played Granada” in Vienna. Large-scale investors have been given large Super Discounts, and they have accepted the shares of the new Telekom, the own company they wanted to market as a “people’s share”. And what did these large investors do on the first day after the issue course, I think, was 9 € and they themselves had to pay only 7 € for it? What are they doing? – You know, Mr Mitterlehner: You're selling, of course! On the first day, the big investors sell this wonderful “people’s share” they have acquired on the most favourable conditions – and they deserve it again! Thus, tax money is handled by the Austrian Federal Government or the Ministry of Finance! [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: ÖIAG!]] ÖIAG, yes, I know, but the Ministry of Finance had something to talk about at that time too! This is the bitter reality where you have to ask yourself: Maybe you're right about your Woodoo economy: Get out of the window, get in at some door! – Yes, but at the wrong door, I would mean.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20118	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20140	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! The present report of the Court of Auditors on the award of contracts to external consultants consistently presents a positive witness to the Ministry of Finance. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The review focused mainly on the reorganisation of procurement, financial management and budget restructuring, involving external consultants from the resort. There are simply different approaches, and you can get around, like Mr Öllinger, or you can see it sober and like the Court of Auditors. As a result of the synergies generated by the pooling of procurement structures, some €29 million could be saved in figures alone in 2002 and €38 million in 2003 and 2004. The funds saved are thus available for other purposes, and the Court of Auditors has also confirmed that the procedure is largely correct. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the text from the grass!]] As regards the award of contracts for the reform of the financial management, it must be said that it has also complied with the procurement rules. The need for external advice came from the lack of in-house know-how. Perhaps the allocation of orders was a little too little documented, but the result of the reform can be seen: leaner and more powerful decentralised structures with a more cost-effective and efficient organisation that optimally fulfils the tasks of the tax administration and that the changing requirements have grown accordingly in the future. In the third part of the budget structure, tax money was not wasted, but quite the contrary: The use of external consultants has made it possible to achieve enormous savings and recovery potential. Costs of around € 4.3 million are compared with savings potential of € 220 million. In summary, it may be noted that: The competition procedures, and the Court of Auditors also noted, were in line with the procurement rules and were sufficiently transparent. As far as the costs are concerned, the Ministry has already promised to comply with the Court of Auditors' suggestions in the event of future awards. I believe that this is also an important effect for the Ministry of Finance to comply with the Court of Auditors' suggestions and integrate them into its work.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20180	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20202	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Expensive members of the Federal Government! So: Get out of here and filter out something positive from the reports, that's really a work of art. Mr. Prince! I now take an example of the so-called savings you mentioned here, namely the sale of the Austrian Federal Republic. In fact, this can only be referred to as a deceiving example. For the sale of the Austrian Federal Republic, Consulting firm commissioned KPMG to support the federal government in this divestment, to say honors and write 788 000 € – no cracks, a nice amount. A savings potential of €24 million was mentioned by Minister of Finance Grasser. That would be a great sum if it were really that way, but the fact was that the savings potential of €24 million was actually about the purchase price. So let's say: Saving zero, cost burden € 788 000. So that this is supposed to be a saving, I dare to doubt it. We are discussing the Court of Auditors' report, so we are observing it. Colleagues of herbs have already said it: € 91 million has been spent on advertising and external advice since this black and blue government's start, for advertising to the government parties at the expense of taxpayers, actually a hidden party financing; that's what you have to say. This is advertising at the expense of taxpayers; today we have talked about it again with the full-page advertisements. This is advertising at the expense of taxpayers! There has been nothing left out of the advisory services but millions of costs, and no success has been achieved, except perhaps perhaps with the friends of the Minister of Finance. You will have to justify that before the taxpayers. Mr Kaipel has already spoken about the federal procurement company. Who are you meeting, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties? – The micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of the advanced period, I can only add a few words and quote Mrs Sonja Zwazl, President of the Economic Chamber in Lower Austria, who is openly speaking of violations of the law here. I quote them here from the “district leaf”, which was published with a circulation of 1 million copies in Austria. Zwazl: “I think it would be a violation of the law when food supplies are issued in item sizes of four million euros. There shall be no regional small or medium-sized enterprises.’ Ladies and gentlemen! “Legal violation” – accused by Mrs. Sonja Zwazl, certainly not social democrat – says everything. You do not need to bring out anything positive from the reports that are being debated here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20244	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20265	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to refer to a part of the Court of Auditors' report on the Federal Chancellor's Office, and to the website 'help.gv.at', because this was a bit criticised in connection with further contracts. Today, however, we can say that “help.gv.at” is probably one of the most successful sites in relation to citizens’ service. It has been shown that external advice and committed internal management, if it works well, can actually be very successful. I think that's also a way of the future if it's well in balance. “Help.gv.at” has also been awarded a European prize and, as has been said, is probably one of the most successful eGovernment projects in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore say this because, in many debates, including in the committees, I felt that external advisers against internal resources always have a bit of a problem. They were played out. I believe it is important that both are well in balance, because this offers opportunities for further development. But of course there are also examples of this, especially in the Internet area and in the area of homepages, how you don't do it. A few colleagues are obviously on the Internet, and I would ask that they perhaps click on the “www.kontroversialspracher.at” page. This is a page presented four or five years ago in a large staging in Styria. This page belongs to Günther Herbs – you see, we keep Steirer together – and the last entry on this page is from July 2004. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] You can see, of course, that it can't go that way. This is exactly an example of how homepages should not be conducted. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I may, dear Günther, recommend you hire an external consultant, and I would highly recommend that you use that of “help.gv.at”. Perhaps this will also reduce the reservation for external consultants a little.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20326	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20347	Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr President of the National Council! Mr. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Over there is still a State Secretary!]] It is every time one reads a Court of Auditors report again an experience where one really raises the outrage, the satisfaction that the quality of the Court of Auditors report is excellent, but at the same time the outrage at what is possible and not suspected in this Republic. Before this opinion, I have once again looked at the chapter: The Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. Mr President. We have already discussed this consultative agreement in the Committee on the matter of monitoring driving performance-dependent truck toll systems in the ministry. I read it again, and I really do, I have to say, once again the bile came up. There is really a minister with her acquaintances in a position to just give a sum of over €350 000 to a well - known lawyer. I trust to put it this way now, because I have still personally followed it. It has not only remained with the € 350 000, which is a charge for a performance, which means: Head of a ministerial civil servant working group. If you tell a lawyer in Linz or Vienna, everyone says: Maria!, that would have been the ideal income. Then I could have said goodbye for three weeks and made the biggest luxury vacation. – And that for something that an official can normally simply do as well: Management of a working group to accompany a system to be introduced. But no, Mrs. Minister, on the advice of her friend, I can also say that Miko has repeatedly commissioned a friend, since he is now taking the lead, and for that he is spending a long time wide, and it is not suspected! The only apprehension is that it can be read black and white in the Court of Auditors report. And whatever is not suspected: There is not even a written document on why this lawyer received additional €9 287. It's not enough for the 350 000 to be given to him, no, it's still got to be a challenge. These are taxpayers, and all these are money that we are going to do when it comes to school financing when it comes to pension insurance, when it comes to renewing an infrastructure when it comes to putting a federal government reform on a proper basis. And you allow this to happen, there are no consequences so far, because Mrs. Forstinger – and I would like to close it – has not even been approved by you as a witness. She doesn't even have to justify herself! Not only did she throw the money out the window, she could do it without justification. And that's outrageous to me. Fortunately, I do not need to read the report a third time, otherwise I would have to speak for a third time. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for this good report. Please, Mr State Secretary, take consequences! It is not possible that someone also used your tax money in such a form.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20397	Mr Herzegovina has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20421	Mr Missethon has claimed that since October last year there would be no registration in the popular website “www.konschendungshofpracher.at”. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – That does not correspond to the facts! It is true that, depending on the temperament, people who are angry to angered are reporting on this website weekly and complain about the money waste policy of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20458	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20479	Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that the greatest attention in this report is given to external advisory contracts. In particular, the Ministry of Finance, which has spent more than all the other approved ministries, was taken out. However, a consistent criticism is also that the existing qualified officials have not been used, but that external consultants have been bought over and over again for a lot of money. This does not matter in this matter. The taxpayers' money is good enough to get it out of the window. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Which window was it?]] – You heard it came back at the wrong door. This window is meant. Mr Oellinger has explained this quite precisely. But I have the impression at all that the attention is very bad, because if you have listened to my colleague, you have to assume that we have to lead our meetings much deeper, because nothing has been understood at all what has been discussed at the meetings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It seems particularly interesting to me that Minister of Finance Grasser paid a fee of €2 900 a day to McKinsey's project manager for consulting on the reorganisation of the financial management. Now I've been on the side of the Chamber of Commerce, on the homepage, looking at the amount of consultant fees of a business advisor. The daily rate is between 1 103 € and 1 428 €. This actually means that the project manager charged McKinsey twice as high a day rate. This says a lot about the government when the ministries are so easily given orders to external consultants and, if we are now quoting Mr Ledolter, spontaneously dealing with taxpayers' money. It speaks volumes when orders are orally awarded in ministries – the former Ministry of Infrastructure was also mentioned by Mr Moser – and it speaks volumes when the Court of Auditors writes that the reasons for commissioning an external advisor are not clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20522	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20543	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary, who is sitting around today with long faces on the government bank! I think that is no wonder in this Court of Auditors report. With colleagues from the ÖVP, I think I would like to have these speakers, because these are the right poets you have been working on. This would certainly be interesting for a poetic career. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors has found in this report shortcomings in the award of external... – I am jealous not because of the quality, but because of the distance from the truth. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Don't be jealous!]] There's no envy coming up. – The Court of Auditors has identified shortcomings in the award of external consultants. The documentation was flawed. The mandates have been preceded by the ministerial offices. The plans were inadequate. There were no clear rules, and some contracting authorities had previous knowledge through previous orders. In the economy, it would be said that this is an advantage that has led to a personal advantage for these external consultants. I have now looked at an area, namely the reorganisation of financial management. Two consultants were awarded to the €800 000. They have provided the same services. There was nothing out there, as Minister Grasser assumed a savings potential of €250 million. But this has never been implemented. On the contrary, it is true that the savings have been zero, but the costs for these external consultants have been € 800 000. And this is the money of taxpayers. As you then thought here that you would like to throw the money out the window and that it would then come in at the door of consultants, advertising companies, personal acquaintances or so, I think that shows a very wicked moral image of your government: In my opinion, this is not necessary to deal with the money of taxpayers so sluggishly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In today’s issue of the “Wiener Zeitung” a very prominent lawyer, namely Fries, is quoted, who sheds another light on these processes in the government, because he says that when the family silver is hidden, it is like this: “What the covenant sells he sells extremely unreasonablely.” That lawyer Fries has received numerous apartments from the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft at a bargain price. And who pays for this? – The taxpayers! And that's not true!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20593	Mr Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20614	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. My colleague, Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition today tries to give the impression that we would have invented advisory contracts or introduced consulting orders for the first time. I quote a few examples of our predecessor Edlinger. [[Call the SPÖ.]] For the sale of the federal share of the airport: 2 million € consultants. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] For the sale of the famous CA-BA, which we still suffer today: 7,5 million € consulting costs. And because there was talk of concealment of valuable federal property: There was a real waste of the most valuable federal property. For the annual preparation of a framework contract for the Federal Finance Agency: € 300 000. [[Wow-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Did the Moser get it?]] For DDSG privatisation: € 144 000. Timmelsicht-Privatisation: again 443 000 €. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Do you confuse Euro with Schilling?]] The only difference to the consulting costs of today: At that time we talked about administrative reform, but nothing happened. This time we have brought forward truly sustainable administrative reforms. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Since 2000, we have had fewer than 14 000 officials in the public service and have nevertheless improved with the benefits. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Lapp! Because you have criticized the reorganisation of the financial management: I'd invite you, look at this! Previously, there have been 80 financial offices, now there are 41 economic space finance offices. Today, the progress is much faster. You've been waiting weeks for a notice, today you'll get a notice within 48 hours. The advice costs € 344,000, and the savings potential is not nothing, as you have said, but corresponds to € 471 million, € 72 million in personnel and 22 million in property expenditure. There are more results in the fight against fraud of 200 million and additional results in the audit of 177 million. When it comes to budget restructuring, which I said last time in committee, it is not possible to charge us the total cost of 4.2 million, because we have taken over the total cost for all federal departments. That was 2 150 days of consulting, of which we ourselves took 90 days of consulting. On the basis of this consultation, the Ministries, the heads, the central offices have been slendered, about 10 sections have been dissolved, a number of departments, groups have been dissolved. New Public Management has been introduced. The procedures have been accelerated. So even here, success is far greater than costs, so it was an effective consultation. As today is always the talk of the Federal Procurement Agency – MP Kaipel has said this again –: Today, the Federal Procurement Agency buys around 40 million dollars a year cheaper than before. So how can you claim the opposite? And, of course, we have taken into account small businesses, and I would like to point this out to you on the basis of a specific order. [[Abg. Well, where is it? In Hawaii?]] In the autumn of the previous year, we announced an annual demand for meat and sausages: Order volume 5 million. In order to really bring micro-enterprises to the train, we have divided this task regionally into 91 sub-contracts. There are all the documents on it, you can see them. A total of 30 suppliers have come to train. Nearly 80 percent of the volume was allocated to suppliers who made less than 10 million annual sales, i.e. to real small businesses. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: This is a story of success that you tell us! Unfortunately, just a story!]] That is, nearly 80 percent of the volume went to best bidders with annual sales of €400 000 to 10 million. No company with more than 40 million annual turnover has received a surcharge. So we take the law that is contained there very seriously, and that proves... [[Abg. Ing. Kaipel: That's not true!]] What does “voice” mean? Then we have to get a witness. These are the information I have received from the managing director of the BundesbewerfsGesmbH and which can also be proved. The order can be filed. But we have also renewed the supervision of the financial market with the advisory mandate. How was the condition before? – There was nothing left to be occupied, the bank supervision was toothless. Almost all orders have only been passed on to the National Bank, and there have, of course, been problems with the banking audit. We have completely redesigned the supervision of the financial market, set up an all-financial supervision. All types of financial supervision – insurance supervision, banking supervision, securities supervision – are in one hand today and are also observed accordingly. This is just the right preparation also with regard to Basel II. The award of advisory contracts was justified, the great wave is over, because we have brought the administrative reform to the feet, and, as has been said, in all companies, it is common when extraordinary projects are being developed to serve consultants if their own professionals are not present. We do not have the opportunity to go abroad in a sudden manner and to ask foreign financial authorities how the process is like. That is why we need such companies, which can also carry out this, and international companies have their price. The successes have justified the effective implementation of an administrative reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20737	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20758	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary Dr. Finz, you have now mentioned the administrative reforms and the great successes you have achieved. What did you do? They reduced staff and sent people in early retirement in the financial sector. Tell us what it costs, and then you can talk about the successes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Tell us, Mr State Secretary, why you did not use the financial procuratorship in budget restructuring, which cost 4 million in the deliberations! It offered itself, and you rejected it. Are your own officials unable to carry out such projects? Or what did it say today? They still suffer from having to work for so long among red finance ministers!Unknown term type: "%s".? This has been a “good” explanation. Exciting, Mr State Secretary, were your statements regarding the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are served by this federal procurement company. You mentioned to us some numbers of meat and sausage suppliers and that the little ones were allowed to offer with them. The same question, which is how many small and medium-sized enterprises are allowed to participate, has already been put to you by Mr Reheis in committee and you are asked to reply in writing. We have received the written answer today, and see that we do not get detailed information from you on which small companies from which sectors may be in which regions, but we only get figures: 280 enterprises are SMEs, 73 per cent in 2004, 63 per cent in 2003, and so on. And since I ask you to be very careful now, because in the final sentence of this answer it is said: ‘An additional breakdown by individual procurement groups or by geographical characteristics would at present be associated with disproportionate administrative burden, according to the BBG Communication, especially since there is (yet) no electronic recording of procurement operations.’ Mr. State Secretary, is there still being grounded? Are there books? – Does the BBG not have an electronic way to record the business and give us a proper answer?- Oh, my God! This federal procurement company was founded in 2001 – and in 2005 it has no electronic support, so it can tell us how small and medium-sized enterprises are operated?- Oh, my God! – They are not served; they are going down! In the Committee, Mr Finz, you said very aptly – with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises – that: We lead the horses to drink, they have to drink themselves! - I guess you mean the small entrepreneurs. You know what? – With your policy he squeaks them!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20812	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20834	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that this report has led the Court of Auditors, following urgent investigations, to make recommendations which I would like to present briefly, and I would also like to point out that we have examined a total of 36 awards with a total order volume of € 12.3 million. In fact, the Court of Auditors has found – Mr Prinz has pointed out – that there are also awards that have been properly handled, but that in the case of a large proportion of the awards included in this report, it is noted that in many cases awards have been carried out without sufficient justification, awards without cost-benefit analysis, that the procurement rules have not been partially observed and exceptions have been announced that they have been denied any plausibility as such. Furthermore, only a lack of communication between external consultants and at the same time between the individual departments has taken place, a communication which would, of course, be necessary in order to be able to implement sufficiently. In one case, the budgetary rules were not observed. In addition, there is a lack of documentation on the decisions taken. Services, but also the billing, lack of planning of projects – and in some cases the performance content was not sufficiently determined. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] – These are facts that are present, and these have been presented in detail. I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for having done so within the framework of Their statements refer to this and have been derived from the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, which were also reflected in the statements made by the Court of Auditors Committee, or from a certain need for implementation. It is also known to all – Mr Finz has already pointed out – that this is not a fact that would be available only in 2000 or 2001 – that was the time period for which we conducted the investigation – but that, even before this period, awards have been made, which have very probably also shown shortcomings in this form. It is about, and this is why the Court of Auditors has made recommendations, to point out the conditions under which, in the future, external advisers should be recruited or whether this is at all necessary. I would like to stress that the Court of Auditors does not generally reject the withdrawal of external consultants, since in some cases this makes sense, is necessary and actually leads to positive effects, especially when – again the restriction comes – certain criteria exist or are met. These criteria are precisely the criteria that should first be taken into account that the resources in your own home are used, that this is one of the core tasks – and are therefore covered with your own staff. This also serves the motivation of the employees. And only when you don't have this in your own place should you consider: Is there any facilities available for advisory activities within the framework of the Federal Government? – In this context, I would like to emphasise, for example, the Financial Procuratorship or the Constitutional Service. The following consideration shall also be given to: Do we need external consultants or do we have our own facilities for this? Do we have a need? How does the cost-benefit ratio look? The Court of Auditors has calculated that on average an advisor costs €1 220 per day, a project leader €1 760. – This means that there is certainly a significant amount to be spent on external consultants, and it should already be borne in mind that on the other hand, very cheaper own staff – and that with the same quality – are available in the home. It is therefore a question of teaching external experts primarily where there is a clear knowledge of experts, where special knowledge is needed, where special techniques are needed, and where external consideration also leads to an increase in quality or a reduction in risk potential. Furthermore, when selecting consultants to comply with contract law or internal service instructions, and therefore – this is an important aspect; this is also evident in other areas, not only in those which we have specifically included in this report – but in having clear ideas about what to do before commissioning an external consultant. You can only make a mistake once; once you can make it, that is forgivable, but not a second time at all! In particular, from the point of view of the Court of Auditors and with regard to the consideration, Mr Finz, the State Secretary, here too, It would be appropriate to draw up directives on this, or to give these recommendations a certain amount of liability, which would certainly lead to the future action in the sense of a economical and economic performance or award of contracts. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, I am sure I will do everything in the direction that none of the audited bodies can claim that one does not know these recommendations, does not know what they are and what recommendations one should actually act on. I will write to each department, to each department head, or to any relevant body, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, so that everyone really knows that, when the Court of Auditors return to him/her, an audit will be carried out exactly in accordance with these recommendations, in accordance with these principles and that it will also be included in a Court of Auditors report. This is also one of the points that the Court of Auditors takes: not only does this carry out ex post audits and the results of these audits are discussed here in plenary or committee, but the Court of Auditors also fulfils its advisory function, which it has to do with the Constitution. This consultative function will continue to be one of the most important tasks of the Court of Auditors in the future, since, if the Court of Auditors provides services, it will raise them to a certain general level in order to enable those concerned to adapt to them and thus to achieve a more economical and economic performance or performance of the relevant agendas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20922	The next speaker was Mr Faul. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20943	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Secretary of State! Mr Finz, if you have been listening to your Minister of Finance today in the early days – and if you sometimes listen to your Chancellor – all that should be done to keep the people of Austria in employment, and how the budget is directed to guarantee full employment, and if you, Mr. State Secretary, have now listened to you, how proud you have presented the balance of your policy, a policy that leads to people being pushed out of their employment and into unemployment, this already shows the clear picture of your party as you speak on the one hand and think and act on the other hand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Finz, if you have tried to show us today the sausages that did not appear to you to be transportable in the form of perishable goods, and this as an example of how you are serving small and medium-sized enterprises so to speak, this is another indication that you have not told us the truth here. Look Once again, take the big positions, positions that are indispensable for small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria! A third, Mr State Secretary, since today you have kept us the advisory costs in our time of government: I would also like to draw your attention to the proportionality between advisory costs, the benefits of this advisory activity and the scope of this advisory activity. If we take these three factors together, we can conclude that Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Auditors, Mr Moser, has said that your advisory costs are far too high and, like the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, we are asking ourselves why these advisory activities are not simply done by officials in the Ministries themselves. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] In order to return to Mr Moser's comments and remove the case of Chief of Cabinet Miko again: There is already a question of what qualifications these senior officials had in the ministries. [[Abg. Neudeck: This has not been an official!]] Should they have qualifications that they have qualified for a particular job and task – or did they only have to have a close relationship with certain parties or persons? [[Intercession with the liberals.]] There is already a suspicion that Mr Bucher is really right: You only need to throw the money out of the window so that it comes back to the right party door. – That is obviously the result!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21017	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21039	High house! Every time we have to discuss a Court of Auditors report, it turns out that this government is not too expensive when it comes to consulting and advertising. Why x-million € has been wasted to consultants since the year 2000, can be seen from some passages of the Court of Auditors report. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you know the head of state Häupl?]] One reason is that the government as a whole and the head of the department in particular do not seem to trust their officials. They do not want the know-how and the expertise that are in the ministries, but they only need to be called out. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you also read the spelling errors, Mrs. Colleague?]] – I believe, Mr Neudeck, that you do not. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But obviously the government means to get out of its own house without knowledge. Is it afraid of the officials’ s s scepticism against cost-intensive government projects? An institution seems to be particularly suspicious and incompetent to the Government and the Minister of Finance: the Financial Procuratorship. In accordance with the law, the latter is appointed to assist the Ministries as a lawyer and adviser to the Republic. I would like to remind you of the discussion in the Court of Auditors of the 16th anniversary. February, where Mr Finz said that the Financial Procuratorship did not have sufficient expertise in international procurement. Ladies and gentlemen! It is thus put in the room that the lawyers of the financial procuratorship do not know the Austrian federal award law. Another but not less bizarre reason for the failure to consult the financial procuratorship was provided by the former Minister of Social Affairs, at the meeting of the 19th century. year(s) He had not resorted to the financial procuratorship in the restructuring of the main association because there were different views between his and the financial sector. – With the well-known consequence: Sünd-genean consultants shall work out the main organisation reform, which will then be abolished by the Constitutional Court. That's tough and unprofessional! Ladies and gentlemen! This government is wasting tax resources on external consultants and advertising, while the employees and pensioners have cuts and increases on the agenda. The SPÖ does not take note of this Court of Auditors report, which confirms the easy use of means of taxation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21098	The last speaker was Mr Christ. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21119	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am now also out: I am a repeater, a repeater in the indictment of incredible waste, of responsible handling of taxpayers' money, as he is regular with you, ladies and gentlemen and State Secretary of this blue-black Federal Government. And it is evidenced by the Court of Auditors – it cannot be clearer: More than €90 million for unscrupulous and absurd money spending for consultants, for consultants, for experts, for other specialists with investigative close relationships, with best-dominated orders. No, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you certainly don't throw the money out the windows with both hands, you don't even use an chord shell for it, especially in the sky pfortgasse. €3.6 million Counselling costs for a single law, for a law with 20 paragraphs! I have already said this in the Court of Auditors' Committee: Each cemetery order has more paragraphs. And even if you, Mr Finz, cannot accept it, do not want to hear it, and do not want to believe at all, I will tell you again, and perhaps get it You will finally feel more about the municipalities in the federal states: Upper Austria has 445 municipalities. 384 of them have a budget of €3.6 million or below. Explain to the mayors in these communities how easy one can powder 3.6 million for a single dubious consultation! With your financial policy, you turn the communities into bitters, you prevent the budget from being balanced, and so it comes to runaway communities. Tell me openly if you want to turn the communities into bitters or perhaps even plan to reintroduce the toe! You can charge the advice of a single section €180 000. You have to let that break on your tongue! This is not only immeasurable, it is also irresponsible to cry out for consequences and in any case to reject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I am not fooled by everything, Mr. Grasser, Minister of Finance, has today indirectly announced a sustainable personal consequence in his cuddly budget speech. [[Intervocations between the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Incredible!]] – I am pleased to have your undivided attention, colleague Neudeck. – He said there would be no tax and tax increases and no new savings package with him. [[Demonstratative condolences with representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I have the quiet hope that after his today's nebulous speech and the presented numbering work announce exactly the opposite of it, his resignation is imminent, because then he no longer has to answer all of this. – And this, ladies and gentlemen, would delight me, the SPÖ and also Zig thousands of Austrians, across all parties, immeasurably.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21174	Mr Neudeck has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21195	Mr President! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you can ignore the reports and criticisms of the Court of Auditors, you can speak them in a beautiful way, or you can take them seriously. I assume that our ministers take the criticism seriously, and where we are hounded, just there and there, there are chips. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Mr Pusswald, don't, otherwise I'll say something to your tie! Please don’t call me, or I’ll look into the “NEWS ” and say something to your tie. So we can take the criticism seriously, and this will be done by our ministers, because where the plan is being made, there are chips, and I admit that there and there in the advisory agreements sometime it has been overturned. No one will want to ignore that which takes the Court of Auditors and the President of the Court of Auditors seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, only: You particularly welcome the Social Democracy and the Greens, whom you have met with this President of the Court of Auditors with the greatest distrust! They have changed from Saul to Paul, faster than at the time of the vine. I'm glad for President Moser! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, on the basis of my statement, one might have to consider supporting the motion for a resolution by the Socialists and the Greens today, because mistakes have happened; I admit it. Only: My confidence in our ministers is greater than confidence in the Social Democrats. – The Greens have not yet ruled, so I cannot criticize them either. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! They have spent over 100 million S on consulting contracts for CA privatisation – State Secretary Finz has said it. [[Abg. Scheibner: To servus!]] You have not only squandered state resources, but you have added billions to the sand by the head of state Häupl in Vienna, too, because at that time, when you said: Get out of these shares!,... – Mr. Gaßner, don't be nervous! [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] Put it down if you don't hear it up there, you might get it better! So you put billions in the sand there – and you needed consultants with a cost of 100 million?- Oh, my God! They wanted to sell housing companies – not even by 1 €, because there was still the Schilling at that time – by 1 s. Wearing state resources – no thanks! You have needed EUR 615 000 consulting contracts for DDSG privatisation. Amadeus, Vrannitzky – you don't know everything anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! My trust in our ministers is greater. You can apply for... - I'm not saying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21254	Mr Herzegovina has now spoken with one minute's speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21275	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There's something else to say. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: “The buffet is open!” – Otherwise you can say nothing more!]] The former President of Fierce has spoken of a step for the rule of law in your ÖIAG powers. And the former President, Dr Franz Fierce, spoke about the Court of Auditors being able to immediately abolish the counter-judgment of the Minister of Finance. But today, ladies and gentlemen, you reject a motion for a resolution, and the President of the Court of Auditors, Moser, is forced to make such a request in writing to the various bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! As you do with the institution of the National Council, with the Court of Auditors, is a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21316	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-77 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kräber, Mag. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of internal directives on the conditions for the award of service contracts for external advice and public relations. If you want to join this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request does not receive the necessary majority. He is therefore rejected. [[22:11:53]] 16. Point Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on “Architecture and Building Culture in Austria” (824 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21377	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Wolfmayr came to the speaker's desk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21404	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The report by the Committee on Architecture and Building Culture on the subject of “Architecture Policy and Building Culture in Austria” to Parliament today gives a comprehensive witness that we all feel it is important to create improved framework conditions for contemporary building culture and a cross-border architectural policy to ensure the quality of life in Austria. It will not be possible to satisfy all the wishes and needs of the interests of the countries, communities that can meet different bodies, but it is important for the dedicated approach and the expanded possibility of comprehensive public information that we now have. Thanks to the initiators of the platform for their commitment. Her goal has been achieved. Cross-border, we are making a political commitment to the creation of a viable environment for future generations. I would also like to see Josef Riegler’s brilliant term “ecosocial” applied here. An eco-social architecture is what I wish for. This word seems to me to include all the essential endeavors very well, and in this sense, too, Mrs. Landeshauptmann Waltraud Klasnic has an extensive year programme, I call just a few points: Architecture Laboratory, International Exhibition, Local Information, Building Directors, Design Advisory Board, Digital Architecture Mediator, Geramb-Rosen Award, Yearbook of Architecture with the State Architecture Prize. This is all to be seen in connection with the strong focus that we have all given to each other, with the Committee on Inquiry in the previous year, with the report now before us. I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that all of us have taken this courageous step across the political groups – the Committee of Inquiry, the report that concludes the first step of a process and that we have already opened a dialogue between policy-makers – we are all living and living in our environment. I am convinced that this joint commitment will take a new and important direction within the creative economy of Austria and I am looking forward to further steps! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21447	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21468	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we can debate architecture and building culture here today in the Hohe Haus. After intensive preparatory work almost a year ago, the discussion of architectural policy issues began with the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, in which numerous national and international experts participated. Differently, the individual evaluations of the state were different, the approaches were different. However, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion was that this Committee of Inquiry can only be a first step, which should be followed by many more towards a dedicated architectural policy. This expectation is also reflected in the present four-party resolution request, which, among other things, provides for a wide-ranging construction culture dialogue and the creation of a building culture report by mid-2006. Ladies and gentlemen! I still have some statements from the government parties. There was the talk of how important the legislator takes architectural policy, but also that the importance of architecture and building culture increases, or that architecture is identity-building. But I also remember the findings of experts in the Enquete Commission who have found that there are no data and facts, because politics has not been interested in the lack of framework conditions, strategy concepts and structures in Austria, and also that the architects only have a marginal planning influence on construction in Austria. These findings should not be new to those responsible in the government parties. I recall the promises made by ÖVP and FPÖ in the government agreement. In 2002, I quote that it provides for “the preparation of an overall programme for the exercise of the federal responsibility for building culture”. – That was 2002, now we have 2005! Ladies and gentlemen! In many countries, the understanding of architecture is deeply rooted not only in the political but also in the collective consciousness of people. The Commission on Architecture has strengthened my impression that we still have a long way ahead of us in Austria. The SPÖ's demands for a dedicated architectural policy therefore go far beyond the resolution. We do not want to release the federal government from its role as a model for its own construction projects. We call for a cross-sectoral policy of architecture. Quality-oriented long-term strategies will be developed and an architectural guide for the contracting authority will be drawn up. Parliament should have the opportunity to discuss the building culture report publicly here in plenary. In general, there should be increased public relations for contemporary architecture, as well as promotion of the culture of competition. And one last thought from the Architecture Survey Commission to anchor the importance of architecture in the population. It could contribute substantially to such an anchoring, if one started the discussion of architecture in the context of cultural education already in school, because, ladies and gentlemen: The understanding of architecture and building culture is not only a matter of concern, but also of education! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21516	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. He also has a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21538	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to participate in this parliamentary committee of inquiry, which I very much regret afterwards. However, I know that the result was a very, very positive one, and I am right for my previous speaker to say that this can only be a first step. This four-party resolution proposal concerning measures to promote the construction culture, a dedicated architectural policy contains some essential points for me, namely an appreciation of the quality of the plan, which, however, I also say, not only concerns architecture and construction and the construction culture as such, but this claim is generally to be raised throughout the planning area. It is also about caring for the cultural heritage and using resources in the building stock. One point also raised by my previous speaker is the design of competitions: The aim is to create better framework conditions, especially for younger architects, to develop more incentives for a wider participation of young architects. I personally believe that this can only go hand in hand with a change in the competitive system, and see only the possibility that ultimately the public hand, the federal government says, “takes more money” to implement it. My colleague, the current Secretary of State Mainoni, was present at this Committee of Inquiry, who spoke about the development in the 1970s and 1980s when design councils were introduced in many cities. These design councils were and are certainly positive. However – and I know this from my own experience, because it was understandable or visible in my hometown – there were sometimes false developments. That is to say, one has sometimes occupied these advisory boards too internationally, so that there has been a development that has been made from snapshots of assessments – and I think it has not always been everything in the sense of a positive development. [[Abg. Neudeck: Max, you know it's half eleven?]] Finally, I would also like to take a brief look at the protection of monuments and the preservation of monuments, which, as I believe, is also very, very important. Our monuments are part of our national being, that is no question! It is a cultural heritage, and it is an unmistakable part of our Austrian identity. As has already been said, I see this Committee on Inquiry as something very positive – thanks to the initiators – and above all as a first step, knowing that there has to be a networking, something transcending to be able to implement something positive here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21574	The next speaker was Dr Zinggl, Member of Parliament. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21596	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's been a year now. A year ago, this survey commission was on construction culture. One year, Parliament needs to take account of the voices that were then voiced that there must be such a dialogue and a report, and to take this decision at all. It's been a long time. That actually says a lot about what Parliament is trying to achieve on the subject of architecture. But after all, Now we have this dialogue, there will be this dialogue between the federal government, cities and communities soon. I think this is very necessary because there are still the reflective reactions when it comes to more radical changes in construction. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's stupid!]] Some mayors prefer to move on the comfortable path and represent what there is no criticism of. In my opinion, this leads last but not least to these prefabricated clothes and this hegemony of boredom and average, as we observe in Austria – and unfortunately not only in Austria, but everywhere. So, I believe, the legal framework is missing and there is also a lack of information on public awareness. But I hope that this report is coming soon. I am not going to make any secret of the fact that, in this motion for a resolution, as far as the wording is concerned, we would not have liked to have some phrases, but would have integrated them in the sense of consensus, for example, “Architecture as part of the creative economy”. – Always this creative economy, Mr State Secretary! Phrases don't get any better, even if you're dredging them for so long. We have always considered whether there is no more than the operation of the construction industry. The question is always whether culture is part of the economy or the economy is part of the culture. We may eventually have the opportunity for a private body to clarify this. But the other one – the previous speaker has mentioned it – is that the “careing of the cultural heritage” belongs rather to the lip confessions. They can prove from the government every day, even at any moment, that they want to maintain this heritage. I do not want to go into the Hasen debate – we will still have the opportunity to discuss it – but you have almost every day some scandal about the cultural heritage and its care. There are laws, you just need to keep them. You do not need to try any vocabulary and make demands, but you only need to comply with the laws – then the cultural heritage is maintained and preserved. And please be careful that what is now in this motion for a resolution is really being observed, namely that by the middle of next year this building culture report is actually on the table. Then Austria has the EU Presidency, and during this EU Presidency there is also an international architectural survey committee, a summit. In my opinion, Austria would be very well advised to present something in order to be a pioneer in Europe. The Greens will certainly not want to secure any support. [[Abg. Felzmann: Super!]] This is one thing that goes far beyond the parties and their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21648	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21670	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I was fascinated now: Mr Muttonen is just beginning to take the first step in the discussion; Mr Zinggl is starting a dialogue and talking about the government's phrase-threshing. Ladies and gentlemen! May I inform you that we have already presented the “First Austrian Creative Economic Report” in 2003. [[The speaker shall keep this report up-to-date.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: They slept!]] Both the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Education, the Secretariat of Art and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce have commissioned this work to collect data, facts and figures on how much creative areas contribute to the creation of domestic value. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These figures were more than impressive: In architecture, there are over 3,000 companies – and this, please, already in 2000 – with more than 11 500 employees. If you take the current edition of the “profile” – certainly not an ÖVP paper – then you will learn that there are 2 733 architectural offices in Vienna alone – so much to the non-existent data material! [[Call the SPÖ:Well...!]] You just need to research, you just have to move in the scene and see what's really going on. The ARGE Creative Economy, founded in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, has set itself the goal of supporting and establishing Austria as a creative location, both nationally and internationally. This is not an invention of us now, the creatives have always been there in Austria, in architecture, in painting, in music! And they're here today. You can read the corresponding figures here in this report. Therefore: We have, of course, been dealing with this issue for a long time. In the spring of last year, for example, we held a survey commission on architecture, multimedia, design in the club, so that we MEPs can have international examples presented and very intensively deal with this matter. Of course, as a result of this, we have very much supported the Committee on Inquiry here in plenary because, for us, the dialogue does not begin, but rather we are already in the middle of it. And if you look at the international exhibitions organized by State Secretary Morak, then this is just another proof of a very, very dedicated policy in this broad field. That is why, of course, we say yes to this motion for a resolution, which supports and supports this building culture dialogue, which proposes concrete measures to promote the construction culture for the federal, state and local authorities in terms of legal frameworks, fiscal conditions et cetera. That's what we're saying, "A hundred percent!" However, we say no to an approach, as I have just observed on the SPÖ side, in which it is about immediately pressing various activities into a Spanish boot of bureaucracy. [[Abg. May. Muttons: What is a “Spanish boot of bureaucracy ”?]] That's not our way. Politics cannot embrace the creative – and this is what architecture counts! That wouldn't be fair to the scene. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Puswald and Mag. Muttons.]] We are ready to conduct this dialogue here, including with you, for our country and for the entire industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21748	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21769	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to thank you once in principle for the initiative you have taken, here for the architecture of the hill. Mrs. Muttonen! You don't necessarily improve the situation if you say: The blacks were it! or: It was them! or: It was those! – I don’t read to you what Roland Rainer, former city planner of Vienna, tells you about the architecture of Vienna, because it doesn’t make any sense if we just push one another. Let us be glad that we are basically launching an initiative that is good for the country, which is good for us, which is good for the architects, who are good for the creative that is good for the artists, and that we have reached agreement here. We'll try to make the most of it. They know how difficult it is to put the cities and the countries under a hat. If you look at how the BIG works, I can tell you: All right, she's working well! But that's not all, because the private are still building – and so on, and so on. We have fine examples – we have bad examples – of architecture in Austria. Whether in Vorarlberg, Styria, Vienna, Burgenland and Lower Austria, there are beautiful initiatives in architecture. I think we should take this as an example and ask: What's the common thing about all of this? Ladies and gentlemen! You know, I am not in principle responsible for architecture and construction, but I am responsible for the presentation of architecture. And what we do with it, for example, is that we increased the architectural budget by 40 percent – I think that can be seen! – that we work consistently and very initiatively with the architectural houses, with the lan- that we make round table meetings that we are in conversation with the architects. I think there's something going on here. Together with the Austrian cultural documentation, we have for the first time produced a comparative study in the field of architecture. This publication has been received from you, I assume you will all have studied. I repeat: All of this didn't exist before! I think that's a nice start. I congratulate the National Council on this initiative – and I say quite clearly: I'll sit on it as much as I can. Together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, we will issue a report on building culture. The costs for this report will be shared between the BKA and the BMWA. When we all spit our hands and say: Let's see that we bring together something good!, then we can all benefit from it, the architects, but also the whole country. In this sense, I would like to thank you for the initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21825	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21846	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr State Secretary, I am very grateful to you for thanking you as the first speaker of the government groups, as the first member of the government, for those who have actually initiated this architectural survey commission, namely the architects. We have heard many words about the creative economic report, including the previous speaker. To do this, you have to say: There is a report, but unfortunately no data and no further steps since then. [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary-General Morak.]] That means: In architecture, when it comes to creativity and implementation, a report will unfortunately not be able to start much. That is why, as has been so often done in this government, it is only empty words with which all those who really love it cannot begin much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] So I'm going to join this one: A warm thanks to the architects who have initiated that we have held an architectural survey commission here, which was really very interesting, in which we have had a discussion with this subject, which, I believe, was very deep and where one has felt that it is about defining the further steps, and also that the creative people of your reports, Mrs Deputies, have enough, because they want to see actions, and rightly so! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Felzmann.]] I think we also have the task of doing so. That is why I am very happy if we actually have this building culture report here in Parliament, so to speak, and the government is also willing to do so because I want to address a very specific point: You know, I am the chairman of the Building Committee, and of course this is a lot about architectural issues – yes, that may be yours, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Neudeck: If you hadn't said this right now, I wouldn't have known it, because you're so rare!]] In any case, there is something like public means to intervene in the State as well as in the architectural field. And I therefore believe that we must ensure that housing promotion is not only functional areas of support, but that there is such a quality of life that there is something like ecology. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I would like to win for this because I believe that many people feel it the same way I do. It's about quality of life and ecology – and I don't know why you obviously don't have anything to do with it, and that's why you're so excited. [[Abg. Neudeck: Have you talked to Faymann?]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, architecture has so much to do with life that we experience architecture every day – here in the house; yes, all people experience architecture. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you now distance yourself from colleague Faymann?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] But unlike you, what people feel is important to us. That is why this is an important issue for us and refers not only to the report, but to the actual acts – and that distinguishes us!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21955	Mr Grossruck is now speaking. [[Abg. Dr. One: (in the direction of Abg. Großruck) And please no more poems, yes?- Oh, my God!]] 4 minutes speaking time – including the time for the four-liners.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22005	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I will address the comments made by Mrs Bures at the end of my speech, but now on the report of the Committee on Architecture, Architecture and Building Culture in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We know not all surveys, not all workshops are successful. But this architectural survey commission, which took place a year ago in this hall, was, I think, very successful. Today we see the beginning – I hope to have a new discussion, a new development, namely awareness-building, awareness-raising regarding the need and importance of architecture: architecture as an economic factor, as cultural and art creation, as export goods in the literal and in the transferred sense. I quote a very well-known Austrian architect, Hans Hollein, who became his 70. Last year's birthday expressed his opinion that architecture has been the only worldwide cultural export of Austria for decades. – With this, I believe, he is not wrong when he sees the innovation when he sees the new architects when he sees the architectural achievements. We know we are a country of musicians and poets, but we draw from what happened 100 years ago, 200 years ago, at least a few decades ago. But architecture is happening here and today, and I believe that it is also the task of the public to promote accordingly, to enable appropriate opinion formation, to help this art and culture gap, but also to develop a strong form of economy. I am therefore in favour of promoting architecture on construction regulations, on spatial planning, on various housing promotions, on competitions. I suggest that young architects should be given the opportunity to take a foothold by perhaps inviting them to architectural competitions. Perhaps this can be brought to the attention – but I would be against a legitimate determination – that there should be no competition without the charge of young architects. There are a number of excellent young architects – for example, when you look at Vorarlberg – who, with their achievements, are taking delight in the world. I'm interested in it myself. I am now breaking a lance for the communities, ladies and gentlemen, because it is said again and again that the mayors have no understanding of this. That's just wrong! Each mayor is interested in the fact that architecture is also available and possible in his community and that architects are promoted. This is often also a question of the necessary means, and I would like to say that commissioning architects does not have to be more expensive. This can also be much cheaper if projects are created functionally but also architecturally neatly. It is therefore a large number of measures which, I believe, are necessary and to which the start-up is taking place today. I would particularly like to thank Mr Morak, who is a champion of architecture, who gives his heart's blood for architecture, and so he has behaved when he was sitting here in the last row as a Member. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At that time we often talked about modern architecture. Now he has the opportunity to be very helpful. To you, Mrs Bures: As it was not to be expected, you have released your Kassandra Ruff, which you bring again and again. You know: Kassandra was the Trojan visionary, who always cried out and who didn't believe because she said the truth. [[Abg. May. Worm: Exactly!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But now I do Kassandra wrong when I compare you to her. That's why I finally dedicate a four-liner to you: What Kassandra in Ilias is Bures in Löwelstraß’, with the big difference that nothing happens what Bures sees.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22060	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22081	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Grossruck, I think that this four-liner was really very unnecessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In fact, I am very sorry that we are discussing architecture policy and the construction culture in Austria at so later hours, because behind these very bulky terms is actually something that concerns us all, every single person, every day. After all, it doesn't matter what environment you live in. It doesn't matter what environment you work in or even spend your leisure time. Nor does it matter how cities and villages develop, nor does it matter how the traffic flows flow in rural areas. In my opinion, all these daily needs have been achieved with architectural policy and with Building culture to do. They stand for the quality of life that Mr Bures has also mentioned. However, the Architecture Survey Commission has shown very well the dilemma of the architects and architectural policy in Austria, and the creative economic report mentioned by you, Mrs Felzmann, cannot change anything. This architectural survey commission has clearly shown that the architects expect the policy to be promoted. We do not want to include the architects, but we want to support them, and we want to promote the architecture in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] It is still such that the creative potential of many internationally recognized architects who want to provide their know-how will not be used in Austria. 87 percent of the total turnover of the construction industry is still achieved without any corresponding architectural or engineering plans. Dietmar Steiner from the Architekturzentrum in Vienna expressed this very well in his contribution. He said: “But the world of architecture, the critics, the publishers, the historians – all those around the world who are professionally involved in the development of architecture know Austria and know the people and achievements of a variety of Austrian architects.” But I got the impression at the Architecture Survey Commission that we seem to have it according to the motto: The Prophet is very little in his own land!, don't see. I think we should all take seriously the just quoted inventory of an expert in the scene and the situation and use the potential for our urban development to bring more quality of life to our cities and villages. I also believe – and this has already been mentioned today – that there is an enormous need for re-examination in the education of consciousness regarding the value of the building culture in urban planning, especially among the people in our country, that this matter is a very important matter that can be fed into many areas of life, as I have already mentioned. It is therefore also part of the fact that the Federal Government provides funds for institutions, architects and events aimed at an innovative architectural policy and thus for a higher quality of life. Unfortunately, however, in the art section the means for architecture were shortened. I also believe that this motion for a resolution, which we will adopt today as a four-party proposal, can only be a first step on a very long path. I believe that we must now take further steps so that we do not stop again, also in the sense of the quality of life of all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22155	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Sonnberger. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22176	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear colleague Grossruck, your four-liner was not superfluous, but he was even pretty good, respectfully excellent. I have to protect you there! Mrs Bures, actions are important, but actions alone are too few, and there is also a need for thoughtful ideas, concepts and strategies. Architecture is part of the creative economy and an important economic and location factor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] We need to be careful that when building the life cycles, such as this university professor Dr. Achleitner at the Enquete Commission here in the Hohe Haus, are not radically shortened. Or, in other words, Whoever builds cheaply builds, builds expensive and actually not for the future. Contemporary quality architecture ensures the cultural heritage of tomorrow. Austria's architecture is of high international importance. The architectural productivity is ready and can become even more export hits. We can refer to excellent architectural training. Another goal is to raise the understanding of architecture policy. The mayors as the building authorities, the municipal council and the countries as regulators and regional and building regulators are in high responsibility. Two concrete, positive examples: A consulting check was introduced by the Land Oberösterreich with the Chamber of Architects, which enables you to obtain five-fold architectural services. And in Linz there is the positive example of the Design Advisory Council since 1988, with which the quality in architecture has been significantly increased. In addition to forcing modern architecture, the preservation of the building heritage, i.e. the protection of monuments, is also an important priority. Finally, I should like to mention a few other points which have been discussed in the Committee of Inquiry – with which I would like to thank the participants for their contributions – and which are to be further developed in the future: Promotion of young architects, architectural competitions, more quantitative architectural services, barrier-free building, social building – this is about the possibility of building property as a means of social blending in social housing, i.e. social housing design – and economic construction, with the aim of reducing prices above all optimal house and housing land plans. The Committee of Inquiry and today's resolution are examples and positive contributions to the development of a modern architectural policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22233	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22255	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Architecture is normally discussed in public only if it is disputed when projects stir up when citizens protest. - That's been the case for centuries. I think of Franz Josef and the Loos-Haus or the Haas-Haus-Haus in Vienna. But it is clear: In two, three hundred years we are primarily measured not only by how well we have received existing cultural goods, but how we have implemented the new knowledge and the current technology in architecture at this time. Modern can and should harmonize with old. Architecture is the most important means of expressing the spirit of time and the way of life for all people. Architecture is more than just artistic design. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Definitions as to how Low and zero energy are no longer just topics for eco-freaks. Architecture and planning can also be a measure to ensure the regional medium-sized economy and can also be a visible signal and a sign of rural life. But there is also a demand for the public hand as the largest client. The involvement of local SMEs also in large-scale projects must be possible in a modern procurement right. Yes, it must be promoted! All of them benefit from such an architecture: agriculture as a producer of natural building materials, the local economy and the craft companies as exporting companies, the builder, because it does not have to wait for services for days, and the environment, because long transport routes are not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Many projects in social housing prove that modern architecture does not have to be expensive, even save money. In Tyrol there are projects of low-energy houses in lightweight construction, which move within the housing promotion. There is a need for massive awareness-building, and politics is needed here. Positive examples belong to the curtain. Architecture should become part of modern housing development. Architecture is one of the business cards in history. This will be measured by future generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22303	The last speaker was Mrs. Dr. Brinek. Their speaking time is also welcome 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22324	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! To join the poet's truck: Mrs Bures wouldn't have to be a seer, but at least a hearer. If she had listened to the Secretary of State, she would have heard the correct figures: Since 2000 an increase in cultural promotion/architecture funding by around 40 percent! [[Abg. Grandruck: That's it!]] I should like to say that once again for the minutes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also with the previous speaker Königsberger-Ludwig: It must be used in the immediate living environment. Therefore, as a Vienna MP, I address Rieder, President of the State Council of Faymann, Planning City Council of Schicker: What happens to the ground floor zones in the city center? What architectural proposals are there for this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] How many sales space expansions have been made without considering what this means for the center of the city? How many of these areas have been expanded? Vienna was not only the federal state with the last law of art in public space – Lower Austria was a wonderful pioneer – Vienna is not only the final light in the preparation of this problem. I know that from Innsbruck, there the architects have long gathered together with politics, with urban policy to investigate this: What do we do against the evil word or the phenomenon of city center slumming, city center ghettoization? There is absolute need for action, Steiner is right. Vienna is not for the best, there are architectural, interdisciplinary, economic, residential needs, because apparently the Wiener SPÖ intends to rest on their laurels and makes a mistake after another. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos]] The Committee on Architecture and Tourism has also shown that we should have a long way to go about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22380	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on the request by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to take note of this report and its annexes in 824. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 824 of the Supplements. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. . The sign is given unanimously, the resolution has been adopted. (E 91.) [[22:54:20]] 17. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Consumer Protection Act (497/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22441	We reach the 17th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate which has been held by the honourable Member. Johann Maier is open with a voluntary speaking time limited to 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22481	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the moment, there is a draft law on the right to change. The Ministry of Justice is concerned with the draft law to eliminate the absolute effect of bans. At the same time, however, it is clear that, in discussions in the Federal Ministry of Justice, the social partners provisionally consider that wage and salary claims against their employers should be excluded from the scope of the new scheme, in view of the specificities of employment. I'll bet you do that. This, and I am also quoting, is not to prevent workers from taking up their job easily by unsavory contractors. Reimbursement entitlements could be seduced and employers would terminate the employment relationship if they were used by the transferor. These concerns are taken into account by the draft. The present application deals with the Consumer Protection Act, which provides in § 12 for a ban on the assignment of wage and salary claims for the protection and satisfaction of not yet due entrepreneurship claims. However, the imposition of wage and salary claims is not covered by this prohibition. This is also in line with the case law of the Supreme Court. The problem itself, the Hohes Haus, is very critical in science, and this is already being rejected by many experts. I also see the discussion on the question of the ban on the assignment and the ban on pledges in connection with the increasing number of debts. I see it in the context of the fact that employees lose their job when such obligations are used. Now I'm telling you what's already happening in the banking sector. Banks have gone here and have had conditional pay-as-you-go. That is to say, one bypasses the ban in § 12 Consumer Protection Act. This is also the case at the Supreme Court, which sees a conditional assignment of a non-due salary claim, i.e. a secondment due to effect from maturity, not covered by the prohibition in § 12 Consumer Protection Act. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I see here as a consumer protectionist, but also as someone who is constantly confronted with such problems in the consultation, a very serious problem on the right. We know that there should be a change to the Consumer Protection Act, there is a corresponding working group in the ministry. I would ask the government parties to respond positively to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22532	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Main 4 minutes with us. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22554	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier referred to a subject which is certainly controversial in science, but in practice is not as simple as that presentation was. It should also be noted that, in the absence of the path opened by today's Judicatur to the § 12 Consumer Protection Act, it is to be feared that credit suspensions can significantly increase and become more expensive for workers. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: That's why it's getting worse!]] In this field of tension, I believe that the reflections are also needed for legal change. I already see that considerable concerns have also been raised by the employer in the review process, because the bureaucratic effort for the management of such sessions on both sides is not loved at all. On the other hand, there are also many legal barriers here. It should be added that at the time of the legislation in Parliament, the path which the OGH opened was not foreseen, because the extrajudicial sessions were not taken into account and were also explained in the parliamentary debate and in the rest of the legal channels. I therefore believe that the problem should be discussed in the substance and in depth in such a way that, on the one hand, the favourable loans for workers remain and, on the other hand, the over-indebtedness of the Austrian population is finally addressed efficiently. This is a small facet, but the over-indebtedness of large sections of the population as such is a huge problem in this republic. This should be addressed seriously and not only in this detail.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22594	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. 4 minutes welcome. [[Abg.: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 1 minute!]] They'll be reduced to 1 minute. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22632	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Extrajudicial sessions, Mr. Haupt, may be a product of your imagination. There's no real thing. Therefore, on the matter of the request: This is because, in total, the question of the total amount of redundancies is currently reduced to wage and salary aspects. We want the commitments to be included in the Consumer Protection Act and in this matter. That is why we support the request and also call for it to be negotiated promptly, because the debt problem is enormous.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22659	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion 497/A to the Committee on Justice. [[23:01:36]] 18. Point Selecting a folder
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22695	We're going to the 18th. Agenda item. On the basis of the withdrawal of Sigisbert Dolinschekaus from the National Council, the choice of a folder must be made. The proposal of the Free Parliament Club for the folder to be elected is on Detlev Neudeck. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We'll get to the choice. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the election proposal of the Liberal parliamentary club to give a sign of approval. – The vote will be taken unanimously. Thus, Detlev Neudeck is selected to the folder. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The elected one enters the meeting room. [[Abg. Neudeck goes to his seat.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[23:02:48]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22766	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Pilz, colleagues, to set up an investigation committee on information on the accusations made in connection with the award procedure for the construction of the European Championship stadium Klagenfurt. The request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22841	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes and the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for the reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. I give the floor to the founder, Mr Dr Pilz, to the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e22868	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We've been convinced: For 14 days, the Free Internal and Outside of the National Council have been demanding an investigation committee on the stadium affair, which you call “a hearing affair”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Not at all!]] We've been discussing this for a long time. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Where did we request an investigation committee for the stadium affair?]] Mr Scheuch, you asked for an investigation committee to be set up for the hearing. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Last resort!]] We are making the political nail test with you today or, if we look at what you have left in this debate, we are testing the political nails. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Too early!]] [[Abg. Mandak: He always falls down!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It's too early for the investigation committee!]] Let us briefly talk about the occasion, the so-called hearing affair. [[Abg. Neudeck: Had you discussed the request with us before! It's too early for that now!]] Mr Scheuch! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Yes!]] Who's been heard? – Please call us because we still have to wait and investigate this, at least half of the 32 Carinthian personalities who have been heard! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Are you a doctor, or what?]] We know the name Jörg Haider; okay, there may be a police officer in Carinthia, who is personally willing to listen to all telephone calls from Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Neudeck: That counts for 30?]] [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We know the name Peter Ambrozy; an undisputed personality of Carinthian politics. A third name has not yet been mentioned. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. (Muhammad), (O dear Prophet Mohammed – peace and blessings be upon him) What's his name?]] Where are the remaining 30 prominent personalities who have fallen victim to the “securitate” in Vienna? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Rolf Holub!]] Where are the innocent Carinthian personalities in whose telephone lines have Vienna's strizzis shrouded? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Where are the two Carinthian gendarmen who have been listened to and monitored around the clock? Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Jörg Haider could not answer, Mr. Scheuch could not answer. Only the parliamentary committee of inquiry can find the answer. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The Justice!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you doubt justice?]] Only this committee can find the answer. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Not yet!]] Second – and that will They are happy because it also brings a lot of clarification to the affair –: In the Ministry of the Interior, and not in the Office for Internal Affairs, there are just advertisements against top officials of the Freedom Party. It will be examined whether the Vienna Procuratorate should not be authorised to bring criminal proceedings against Jörg Haider, Mr Strutz and others, with the authorization of the Ministry of the Interior, and to ask the prosecutor, in particular to prosecute Jörg Haider. Yes, if that doesn't have to be checked! The next attempt of the Ministry of the Interior to take an advertisement against the head of the Carinthian Freedom Party! If the abuse becomes so obvious when the larger government partner no longer takes the slightest consideration of the smaller and smaller, then it must be examined, for self-interest and for survival! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: My God, this is a consideration!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: However, this is not reflected in the request you have made!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, you will certainly agree. Thirdly, You won't mind that we're going to check the processes around the stadium. You have raised your accusations, others have raised their accusations. Their accusations do not cover themselves with the accusations such as the chairman of the award commission or the head of the section in the Federal Chancellery, the direct subordinate of your State Secretary, the Graz architect and many more. These are allegations that say: Everything indicates that Jörg Haider has gotten money and two construction companies are obliged. All this indicates that Jörg Haider and his representatives in the Commission have taken every legal opportunity to intervene in the procurement procedure. This indicates that, after the failure of all legal strategies, illegal means have been used. Even though the honourable Member is now acting like a Carinthian libertiesman in the ranks, this does not change any of the facts at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't listen to anyone anymore!]] If a certain beer tent mood in the Freedom Party is now spreading in the face of the debate on the stadium affair, then this kind of political beer is probably the last thing that is left of a party that is both financially and politically close to the pleite. Nevertheless, the facts do not come from the table, and it will continue to be documented. We will soon see, according to the reference by Jörg Haider to the “Wiener Strizzis”, who, according to him, have urged that fifty-fifty be divided between STRABAG and Porr – and that was the accusation of Jörg Haider in December of the previous year – which happened that the proposal of the “Wiener Strizzis” is now the proposal of the head of the state of Carinthia. These are no longer “Wiener Strizzis”, but the leading Carinthian politicians who say that it is to be divided between Porr and STRABAG; or – and this is the second possibility – from the Carinthian head of state has become a “Wiener Strizzi” within a few months. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, you can't!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A Hernal...!]] Yes, if a “Wiener Strizzi” has become the head of the Carinthian state, then we must examine that too. There is so much to investigate. There's so much to ask. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Look at the Black Forest Clinic! There are so many consequences!]] All of this is life and core questions for the Freedom Party, because only when you know how to get money in the construction industry, even outside of Carinthia, can you think about whether there are any prospects for recovery for the free party finances as long as you still have a giant flow in the government. The last and last point: the Federal Ministry of Justice. The Office for Internal Affairs has delivered a comprehensive report to the judiciary. This advertisement consists of four detailed and well documented consents and a whole series of documents, of file notes and of further references. [[Abg. Scheibner: If that's all!]] The references and the evidence refer to the suspicion of the unlawful disclosure of documents from the award procedure, to the suspicion of the breach of official secrecy, to the suspicion of abuse of office and to the suspicion of party financing. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Van der Bellen would better have done so!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But not at midnight!]] And the suspicion of party funding, for which there are still no sections in the Criminal Code today in Austria, this suspicion of party financing can currently be investigated exclusively in parliamentary terms, if it is not the offence of bribery. [[Abg. Scheibner: The victim is just football!]] There is currently no possibility of courts taking action if “only” – under quotations – is party funding. This can only be examined here by the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Federal Ministry of Justice, it is also a question of examining whether prosecutors have attempted to bring down proceedings contrary to their legal mandate within the meaning of a minister and a minister. It is a question of whether influence has been taken, whether a rule of law has been prevented. And I'll tell you right now, there's another point. It is also a question of whether Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, who was informed at the beginning of January about the details of the accusations in the cabinet, then took some steps. And it is also a question of who has passed on the internal information to the public for the benefit or for the detriment of the freedom of movement of officials. Not only Mr. Widrich, the emissary of Jörg Haider in the Commission, is suspect here also members of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Kogler! That's the Kogler!]] This too must be examined, not only by criminal courts but also by a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen! You have announced that you want the committee. The Socialist Group and we have said that we are happy to come close to this wish. They were not able to complete this request in time because of government overload and overburdenment. We took your job off. The request you are going to put to the vote today. The question is whether in addition to the three parties which have clearly declared themselves, a fourth party also agrees. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can't agree to this anymore!]] The question we are asking is whether there is a large majority or a unanimous decision on this important request. I'm looking for unanimity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23283	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Mr Lopatka came to the speaker's desk. But he only wants to talk for 4 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23310	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is once again a request from Mr Pilz to set up a committee of inquiry. Does that excite anyone? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Calls of the Abg. Bures.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Go, Bures!]] No, because it's the 16th. Proposal for a Committee of Inquiry to be submitted by Mr Pilz. [[Abg. Neudeck: Not enough for him!]] He has remained in this legislative period for a very long time anyway. He needed more than half of the legislative period to request an investigation committee here. During the previous legislative periods, he was a little younger, more aggressive, since at that time he was already applying for half a dozen research committees. [[Abg. Mandak: You'd be glad if you were still as agil as he was!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This form of politics has tradition with Peter Pilz. In the protection of parliamentary immunity, allegations are simply made into space. It is spoken of as “political corruption”; so read in the APA OTS144. Or if you take the request to hand: In connection with the Federal Chancellery, this is about ‘payment or acceptance of bribery payments’. At the Federal Ministry of the Interior, “illegal hearings ” are spoken of as “illegal incarnations. ” [[Abg. May. Worm: That's what the Haider said!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: The Haider says that!]] The competent minister can say ten times, a hundred times that there have been no illegal hearings, Peter Pilz has it very easily: In the protection of parliamentary immunity, pre-condemnifications can be made here. But here, I tell you, we like to leave you alone in this policy of prejudgment. [[Abg. Reheis: Who made the accusations?]] We like to leave the SPÖ with Peter Pilz alone. [[Abg. Reheis: Who made the accusations?]] We are both about legal and political responsibility, and we are here for strict standards. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You can't make the accusation anymore! There's a problem! You can see that!]] However, we also call on Members who cry out for committee of inquiry, who speak of conspicuousness that they are also aware of their responsibilities, because you have not mentioned with any word what it is all about: whether Austria is ultimately blaming internationally or, at this European football championship, can correspond to what Europe expects of us. [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Or whether you're blaming!]] You should also think about it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who's blaming?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There was here in Parliament a three-party application in which we asked the government to support the application of the Austrian Football League and the Swiss Football Association for the 2008 European Football Championship and to contribute to this application with appropriate national and international possibilities. [[Abg. Broukal: But who requested this?]] Ladies and gentlemen, a huge opportunity for our country, and you have nothing better to do here than criminalise the whole thing. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Shouldn't we have supported the request because we should have known how you operate?]] If you have something, ladies and gentlemen – and I am getting it to the point – then bring If you do, then these legal questions are to be resolved, then it is a case of the court. First step: If you have anything, bring it to justice. We trust justice, ladies and gentlemen, and you too should show the necessary respect for justice. [[Abg. Broukal: We trust in Jörg Haider!]] If you have nothing in hand, ladies and gentlemen, then leave such actions. [[Abg. Oils: Well, please! Talk about it in the coalition!]] We have a good tradition here in the house: After the legal assessment, of course, there should also be political assessment, ladies and gentlemen, but no pre-conceptions. It is also not a question of calling for political responsibility here before the court comes to its decision. Mr Pilz, we are happy to leave you alone with the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23556	The next speaker is Mr Puswald. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23584	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the applause. He's entitled. [[Lively calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner draws the speaker's attention to a picture in a magazine on which Jörg Haider can be seen with a red tie.]] I had, until Mr Lopatka spoke about other things, but Mr Lopatka has spoken about the honour and reputation of the Republic of Austria, and I tell you, Mr Lopatka, that you have rightly spoken about this, because you, together with the FPÖ, are in the process of bringing this honor to ruin, and I also tell you why. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is a scandal which is to be clarified, a scandal in an order which we are probably not yet able to estimate, and a scandal which Jörg Haider apparently knows to its extent and now with the flight forward seeks the way out by calling for the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Neudeck: If he doesn't, it's not right!]] But his own party friends let him down again, falling down. That's something that doesn't surprise me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (pointing to the speaker who wears a margenta-colored tie) By the tie!]] What surprises me, however, Mr Lopatka, is that the ÖVP has now fallen so far in its concept of democracy that you now want to continue in a tradition of ministerial direction – and otherwise it is not clear that all political proceedings have recently been crushed by the public prosecutor’s office – and now you also want to make the Bock a gardener by demanding that the judiciary act, although you know that the public prosecutorship is the body that is supposed to initiate these proceedings and cannot, at all, because she has apparently been prevented from doing so by the Minister of Justice lately. [[Abg. Neudeck: But it is still higher than the SPÖ!]] [[No-run at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Scheibner: At the tie you should not argue that way!]] That was the case with Koloini, that was the case with Grasser so, and it's at the stadium now. [[Abg. Neudeck: There's no such thing as grass!]] This is an incredible scandal at the stadium, colleague Neudeck. It is a scandal when investigations are stopped without even starting when evidence is appreciated without looking at them. [[Abg. Neudeck: I believed you were a lawyer!]] This is a scandal that seeks its extent first. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why the FPÖ falls around why the ÖVP covers this scandal is getting clearer and clearer. This is a scandal of the ÖVP because Scheucher, as mayor of the ÖVP in Klagenfurt, has completely failed. As a builder, he has skinned everything, in good German, which can only be moaned, he has put this European Championship at risk, and he has thus, Mr Lopata, greatly damaged not only the country of Carinthia, but the Republic. And what you are trying to do now with your group is to cover up all of this, but not just to cover up, but you are also going to go through a change of law and explain a black day for the environment in Austria, as the “Kronen Zeitung” is titled right tomorrow, by now trying to re-establish this pusser by an unfit law in the field of environmental impact assessment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: And the Voves welcomes it! He's already failed!]] It is also a scandal of the FPÖ. The FPÖ, which is known to argue, appears again and again with strange stories about money. Here in stadium construction, FPÖ is said to have collected illegal party financing. [[Abg. Scheibner: Wait! Be careful! Think about your tie and look at this tie!]] [[Abg. Scheibner again points to the previously mentioned image.]] And now I'm telling you, this isn't about a presumption, but this is about a very dense indication. The FPÖ is advocating. The FPÖ has committed its party financing until 2014, the FPÖ has pledged its party financing until 2014, therefore theoretically no longer has any money that it can have, and is therefore forced to get money elsewhere urgently. [[Vivid calls at the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Call:What do you mean by the SPÖ?]] And if, in this context, the suspicion that this money was obtained is that Haselsteiner, possibly also Porr AG, may also have brought Dutchmen into the boat and, for example, had to be financed by the Carinthia Foundation on the way – by the way, the money from the Carinthian Foundation, which Landesführer Haider used to try to clean up the sea stage by paying Zanella – then one asks whether there is not only a suspicion here, but even another conclusion can no longer be drawn. [[Abg. Where's Pöchacker? It's yours, isn't it?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a claim!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You don't think how long are five minutes!]] It is obvious that party funding has taken place in some form here, whether through the Carinthian Foundation on detours or directly through the intervention of the head of state Haider, who, as we have heard today, would not be entitled to do so because he is not the builder. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now he's only not authorized?]] However, it is also a scandal of this federal government which has been hiding here, which has tried to reorganise this scandal with this inconsistency test law, and thus to put it in some form, which, at the same time as this poll in the field of environmental impact assessment, is also trying to save Klasnic, which will no longer succeed, and which at the same time is also trying to keep the government partner FPÖ somehow at heart, so that he does not break away from her. [[Abg. Neudeck: What is an intolerance test?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Your speech is an intolerant test!]] So much scandal on one side requires clarification. We therefore support the Greens' request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23898	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Shame. His welcome time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e23920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puswald, whom you meant with the intolerant test, I don't know, I don't know whether it was an actual joyous promiseor or just the hour before it was due, just: On one thing I am already excited, and of course we will also follow closely, as well as the SPÖ follow exactly all the steps we are taking. I am excited how Mr Ambrozy will behave, how to deal with the EIA procedure at government level, in order to perhaps realize a stadium or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] I'm very excited, Mrs Mag. Trunk, as you seem to be so hated by the LandesPartei Obmann – because he has brought you around a nice place in the state government – is then adamantly behaved here. If he is going to allow a stadium in Carinthia or if he will listen to the left arms here in Parliament, Mr Magistrate. [[Cheerfulness with the Free and the ÖVP]] He's not here today, but Mr. Mag. Puswald and Mrs Mag. Trunk will throw himself very much into the stuff here. It is also interesting to see, Mr Mag. Puswald, if you're here... – Whether doctor or magister, that's, I think, not really the decisive detail. [[Call the SPÖ: Doctor!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: These are all academics!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Fabulous! That's fabulous!]] Your voice doesn't get better by the volume. – The question of sea stage and the question of Mr. Zanella, Mr. Dr. Puswald, is, if I have the right ear, the Carinthian SPÖ has behaved quite differently. She agreed to all these things. [[Abg. May. Trunk: No! They say the untruth!]] There's a body that decides on the sea stage, and, I don't know, somehow I don't hear that bad against wind that you're spreading here in Carinthia. [[Abg. Fauland: Not at all!]] I would just like to say one thing: It seems to be much easier to sit here on the opposition bank perhaps flattering and slandering, taking over as government responsibility. This may sometimes be problematic, and that may not always be easy – I have experienced that too. Government responsibility also means compromise, which is a non-necessary detail. They both have to go back, because unfortunately there is no way to justify what is being said here. Unfortunately, it is. You shouldn't have shot your whole powder. In reality, the discussion shows nothing but that an investigation committee called for by Dr. Pilz here... [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Haider asked him!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: The Haider was that!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, he asked him anyway!]] You seem to have not read the request, Mr Mag. Dr. Herbs or whatever. If you have a request to the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Dr. - Haider's demanding? That would be contrary to parliamentarianism. Show me that! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: It’s in the “Kurier”!]] In the “Kurier” do you have your applications? Well, well, if you read your requests in the “Kurier”, Mr. Dr. Herbs, that is of course your problem. We are dealing here with only those applications that are submitted in accordance with business regulations that can or cannot be supported. Your “Kurier” applications can be supported in your bodies, we will only vote here on such applications, which also correspond to the form following an application. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Since this request has not been made in consultation with Dr. Haider and also not in consultation with the FPÖ and we as a democratic party would at least expect that there might be a discussion here in advance about the content of this request, about the consequences of this request, I invite you, Dr. Pilz, to these talks. To do this, you have to come to us once. We'd like to invite you. Let's talk about the possibilities! We're going to check that out in peace. Until then, with your request, it is as in many situations of life: Whoever comes too early remains!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24103	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24124	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The speeches by the Members of the Government groups, as in most cases in these debates, but now in particular, raise more questions than they believe to give answers. Mr Scheuch, there should be more serious backgrounds, because if you are first interested in beer in the bank in this way – well! – and then a show that collapses in itself, even though it's about raucous accusations, I have to say, there will be more to it than you admit or you've tried to admit here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go!]] That was really a special class owner. What has made me stout – in order to face a fundamental problem – is the appearance of Mr Lopatka. You could almost have thought of it when he spoke. I really have to attest to you – I'm sorry – you're the Grand Master of hypocrisy. We only had 2 days to think. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Put yourself here and ask to put all the documents on the table first to know if a committee of inquiry needs it or not, where it is about that procurement of evidence can take place, among other things, there is nothing to stop! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In this way, we do not even need the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law, since we delete it from the Rules of Procedure! [[Abg. Neudeck: The Investigation Committee is a parliamentary law!]] By the way, that would be better in line with your entire monarchist-parliamentary understanding. It just can't go on like this! I find that unheard of. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Grand Master of Holiness – certainly! Never – never! – it's as good as here. Since you have told Member of the Pilz that he is repeatedly submitting applications here – they were usually very legitimate, actually always – then I tell you to remember back to “Lucona”, to “Noricum”! [[Abg. Neudeck: First we make an investigation committee and then we see if we need it!]] Everything started like this: “The soup was too thin.” – And now you demand evidence? There are some that would even have to be accessible to you. I just need to quote the "curry." I'm not saying that's a proof, I'm just saying what you could read yourself. This is because, because you mentioned this, a consent protocol from the Ministry of the Interior is quoted here. [[Abg. Neudeck: Even the newspaper is out of our club!]] – No, that’s today’s, it’s not from your club, we’ve picked up ourselves from below, that’s not tomorrow. In this context, the conversation mentioned above can be seen. It is in memory – quotation mark; this now says an employee of the STRABAG; an employee of the STRABAG says this to the concurrency –: “An insanity! We pay 400 000 € to Carinthia and then we don’t get the project.” Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if you don’t mind, then you either won’t help, or you don’t want to understand. I suppose it's second. If you find yourself on such a thin ice, then add your finger to the applicants, so I really don't think that's funny anymore. The beer tent atmosphere is no longer suitable for this. I tell you, this is really the decline of political culture, if it is no longer possible to exchange a few things at all. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] By the way, Mr Grand Master, you may have missed the fact that the Ministry of the Interior of the Scoretors was at the public prosecutor's office and not Mr Pilz, the Ministry of the Interior and the Office for Internal Affairs, which is now supposedly responsible for the so-called hearings. So what do we have to investigate? – In your section: That's what the Ministry of the Interior really worked out. And don't tell me that doesn't have a substrate! [[Abg. Großruck: Substral means that!]] But it is – thirdly – because we obviously have a prosecutor's office, which says that this is not a substrate, even that – and so far it has come – not an excuse, but, in fact, a call to this investigation committee, which would be more urgent than ever necessary to finally examine the conduct of the prosecutor's office. Because that's not how it can be... [[Abg. Neudeck: Let's make a general parliamentary investigation committee right now!]] Of course! Parliament is in favour of this. It's the supreme sovereign. It may also look at the prosecutor's office, especially if there is no more charges, and especially if it is always government members affected by these unclaimed charges. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They've been under a witness protection programme from this prosecutor's office for a long time. [[Abg. Neudeck: Don't you want to have a Health Investigation Committee too?]] All of this would be an issue for this committee of inquiry. In the end he was required by the head of state, Haider. Exceptionally, he's right. You should take an annual subscription to the Wörther See and stay there before you fall over and stay there.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24286	Mr Kogler! The accusation “Grandmaster of hypocrisy” is on the verge of an order call. Order calls have already been issued for “hypocrity ” and“ hypocrisy. ” I don't give one today. [[Abg. Neudeck: This has been the case, Mr President.]] – Please don’t comment! No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Pilz's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – The request does not find the majority. He is therefore rejected. [[23:34:39]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-02-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00096_d7e24334	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed applications 528/A to 544/A have been tabled. Questions 2701/J to 2717/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 3rd. March 2005, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The meeting will start at a current hour. This meeting is closed.
