ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2894	I'll open the 119. The meeting of the National Council and the ladies and gentlemen in the House are very welcome. [[11:00:06]] Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2919	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with resolution of 9. According to Article 28(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXII, on 28 August 2005. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The official protocols of 116. Meeting of 7. ==References== Meeting of 8. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website Parliament's management session remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented are reported today the Deputies Felzmann, Head, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Dr. Grünewald, Mag. Weinzinger, Mag. Grossmann, Dr. Jarolim and Dr. Herbs. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2948	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following communication: Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllwird by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein, Federal Minister for Justice Mag. Karin Gastinger is represented by the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection Ursula Haubner. [[11:01:47]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2987	I refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room in accordance with Article 23(4) of the Rules of Procedure concerning the negotiating items and their allocations. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3134	In accordance with paragraph 74a(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the Social-Democratic Parliament has called for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 689/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues on the “disasteral labour market situation in Austria”. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2993/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3155	I would also like to say that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the questions of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Mr Grünewald, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. In view of the fact that a request for urgent procedure has been requested for today's sitting, this brief debate will take place following the examination of the urgent request. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the implementation of the urgent request will take place at least three hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 2 p.m. I am therefore interrupting the sitting until 2 p.m. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the urgent examination of application 689/A (E) will take place. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3204	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll start the interrupted session again. [[14:00:17]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on the disastrous labour market situation in Austria (689/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3241	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 689/A (E). As this request has now been received by all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3657	Before I give the floor to the applicant, I am aware that the President-in-Office's Conference for the period from 2 p.m. to the end of the urgent question, which is expected to take place by 16.45 a.m., has adopted the following Rules of Procedure: The applicant has 20 minutes to justify the urgent request. A speech by the competent member of the government follows – this is the German Chancellor – with all the members of the government available for a total of 30 minutes; then one word per group of 10 minutes, one word per group of 5 minutes, one word per group with 5 minutes, and one word per group with 5 minutes. As another member of the government, Mr Vice-Chancellor spoke, who will speak for 10 minutes in accordance with this speaking time agreement. The second, third or fourth speakers of the respective political groups benefit from the speaking time they have not used in a political group. A fifth round is not scheduled. Actual corrections, ladies and gentlemen, will be made at the end of the debate, after the end of the television period. There is no mention of word messages for business treatment. I give the floor to Mr Gusenbauer as an applicant for the urgent request. Mr Collegue, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3697	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The usual ritual would today assume that the members of the Federal Government say everything is wonderful, everything has been done to combat unemployment in Austria. On the other hand, the opposition – the Social Democracy, the Greens – will say that everything has been shit, everything has gone by. We would throw each other's precepts at the head. The problem is that the problem of unemployment in Austria is unlikely to be solved. That is why I think it makes sense for us to ask ourselves the question of how to break out of predetermined tracks and take measures that actually bring people in Austria. I think it is a good thing that Mr Bartenstein said this week that there are no patent solutions, because this is positive from the statements of the past, in which we have been told differently that the government has done everything to boost economic activity and reduce unemployment. I think that this statement, ‘there is no patent solutions’, is once the beginning of a reasonable discussion, a debate that is urgently needed when considering how unemployment has developed in Austria. If, in July of this year, about 75 000 people are more unemployed than they were in 2000 then this is not a matter of fact, because this is an increase in the number of unemployed by 43 percent. If the number of young unemployed in July of this year is more than 23 000 than in July of 2000, that is 87 percent higher. I am of the opinion that one can argue about different concepts, discuss different concepts, but in the end the result counts. And if you, Mr Bundeskanzler, look at this result, this increase in unemployment, then you can never claim from yourself or your federal government that the policy of combating unemployment was successful. No, on the contrary! Unfortunately, they have failed in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a contradiction to your introduction!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Molterer! If you read the statements – we have written them down to you today – by Mr Bartenstein and Mr. Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany from the past few years, if you read how often it has been announced that the sole of the valleys has gone through, that unemployment is being reduced – “unemployment is falling”, “the rise of unemployment is getting flatter”, “the Federal Government has put the right measures” – if you read through all those statements that you yourself have made, then you must actually face up to the shame in view of the results that are available today. The truth is: There has been no trend change in the labour market, there has been no reduction in unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's your truth!]] On the contrary: Never in the history of our country have as many people been affected by unemployment as today! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to discuss what can really be done, because the government's main argument, which would be an international phenomenon, one could do little about it, is only partly correct, because in the 15 old Member States of the European Union, unemployment has increased by 5.3 percent since 2000, in Austria by 21.6 percent. That is to say, there are obviously differences in how politics has been made in recent years. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you have meant in recent years – the Federal Chancellor said this shortly before the last election – that youth unemployment would have been a beauty mistake for your government. Well, this kind of bagatellization is now clearly replaced by the “summiting” because in response to high winter unemployment, it is the social partners’ summit on 13 November. ==References== – Does anyone know what has ever been implemented? After that it has the summit on the 1st. May be given. – Does anyone know what was implemented? [[Abg. May. Molterer: What we decided here!]] Now it has the summit on the 8th. In August, Mr Mitterlehner said that companies do not know how to get to the promotions. The fact is that unemployment has increased from summit to summit and that all the right to say that these summits are a mogel pack and not effective measures against unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I believe that, in view of this situation, a fundamental question must be asked. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have told us for years now that we have to make sure that the profits of the companies increase, so that these profits are to be taxed as little as possible, then companies will take the money into their hands and invest in jobs and unemployment will fall. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Should companies be taxed more?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You want to raise taxes?]] Well, what's the fact? – The profits are higher today than ever before, they are taxed less than ever before, at the same time we have the highest unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Do you want more taxes?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now it's out! You want more taxes!]] Shouldn't you start thinking about whether this concept is wrong, which is applied here, that the permanent reduction only from corporate profits obviously has not led to more jobs, but to more unemployment, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Molterer has just said: Now it's out there, more taxes! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] A very clear answer, Mr Molterer: They are the largest tax raiser in the history of our country. [[Abg. May. Molterer: me?]] Fact is – you personally, because with your majority you have decided this –: Since 2000, the gross salary of all employees in Austria has increased nominally by 17 percent, with earnings from the wage tax increased by 22 percent. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's why tax reform!]] This means that, taking into account the tax reform, Austrian wage-earners pay significantly more than in 2000. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't have the 2005 figures yet!]] And the comparison makes you sure: Profits rose by almost 100 percent at the same time, but revenues from the profits for the Austrian federal budget fell by 2%, ladies and gentlemen! There you no longer need to think about where the purchasing power is missing in Austria if the wage dependents have been burdened to such an extent. Their high tax policy, which does not give Austrian workers their fair share, is a contribution to increasing unemployment in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A second point on tax reform – the comparison makes you sure –: There is a tax reform which provides for the group taxation of Austrian companies abroad to be subsidized taxly. As social democrats, we have a clear attitude here: We advocate an investment-free amount for those companies that invest in Austria and create jobs in Austria, because this must be the first priority! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you ask Austrian tradesmen today what their main problem is, they will tell you: People have too little money or spend too little money. – The fact that they have less money has been demonstrated on the basis of the tax burden on wages. In some cases, however, they also spend less money. The Federal Chancellor has recently said that his goal is that the savings balances melt. Now the Austrians no longer know each other. For years they have been told that the pensions are not safe, a private provision must be made. Now the Austrians are taking private precautions, and there comes the German Chancellor and says no, that must be melted down, it needs to be consumed again now. Ladies and gentlemen! Should people now save and provide for the future, or should they consume more of the little money that remains for them? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] They will not be able to do both at the same time. And this very contradiction of your policy also leads to increasing unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They point out in your documents – and therefore you are not wrong – that, in addition to rising unemployment, we also have increasing employment. - That's right. They do not point out that rising employment is largely part-time employment. That doesn't matter, but: If we already have the problem that we have an increasing employment potential in Austria and that despite more jobs – though part-time jobs – unemployment does not decrease, then, Federal Minister Bartenstein, the question arises: Why have you increased the number of seasonals in Austria since 2000 by 15 000? If the labour force already increases anyway, why do you use government measures to add to the increase? Ladies and gentlemen! If measures are to be taken to increase the labour force potential, it must not be surprising that despite additional jobs, unemployment in Austria does not decrease. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, it would be urgently necessary to get up to the brake on the question of seasonals, as there will be little change in this situation on the labour market in the next few years. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One of the main points of the problem is the qualification and requalification. The labour market service does so well, but can you explain why Austria spends significantly less on active labour market policies compared to other Member States of the European Union, although we have such a steep increase in unemployment? Wouldn't it be useful to add €60 million to the labour market service every year, so that more skills can be taken and people could also take a foothold on the labour market? We believe that it is necessary to finally get out of the runway and to ensure that people with more skills get more employment. Therefore, the labour market service also needs more resources, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In fact, as far as the promotion of apprenticeships is concerned, you have done a lot in recent years. There has been an absolute increase in teaching expenditure in Austria. The problem is just: The number of apprenticeships has not increased since 2000, but has fallen. This means that the number of teaching conditions in Austria is lower today than in 2000. Therefore, we have the problem that the measures that have been taken have obviously cost a lot of money, but have not led to an increase in the number of apprenticeships. The question is also: Is it not useful to finally go new ways? Does it not make sense at last to bring about a balance between apprentices and non-training companies, so that there is at last a greater incentive for apprentices to take up? It is urgently necessary that you finally step down from the high Ross and not always believe that everything you propose is right – if there is no evidence of success – and are finally ready to respond to the opposition's proposals. Time for short change is announced, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have already made a number of proposals to you in March of this year by presenting you with the "Austria Agreement for Work and Growth". It contains measures at Austrian level and at European level to reduce unemployment and boost the economy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you think the SPÖ economic programme? The Matznetter paper?]] – I know you only read your own propaganda papers, Mr Molterer. With this type of reading you will unfortunately not come to the necessary rethinking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a tax increase paper!]] In this ‘Austrian Treaty’ for work and growth, we are summarizing some of the measures we are proposing at this special meeting today. First: More dedicated investment in infrastructure is needed. Secondly, Tax reform needs to be repaired towards stronger growth and employment orientation. We need additional resources for active labour market policy. There must be a better labour market integration of women. In the field of vocational training, we need to provide the opportunity to acquire equivalent qualifications – for example, the cost-free repetition of the primary school degree – and a reduction in the seasonal quota must be achieved if the labour force is already increasing, and it is urgently necessary that, in view of the current situation, we also benefit from the transitional arrangements on the labour market in terms of Easter enlargement. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the measures you have tried to sell to the public on Monday will lead to unemployment falling. I fear that despite this summit, which was one of many, unemployment will continue to rise in the next few months and we will probably be sitting back here in half a year, unemployment will have risen again, the government will not have been ready to break out of the runway, and will again explain to us that it has done everything possible to reduce unemployment. There are probably 10,000, 15 000 more people on the track in Austria who have become unemployed. Once again, thousands of young people who do not find a job remain on the track. I believe that this is not a responsible procedure for a federal government. And: The unemployment rate in Austria is relatively slow, and it is not only worrying, but it leads many people to fears of existence. Who believes that this is just a problem of social underlayers is wrong! In the meantime, unemployment has reached the Austrian middle class, and there is hardly any larger family in which there is no one who is affected by unemployment. [[Abg. Big truck:... affected by unemployment!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, people can no longer be calmed down by your summits, which usually only play sedative games, but do not represent real therapies in the meantime! People want to see measures that actually produce something! We can talk about any measure, but every measure has to prove itself in reality. The proof of a good measure lies in whether unemployment is falling or rising. Their actions, including after each summit, have led to a further increase in unemployment. I would recommend: Try it with our measures! [[Call the ÖVP:What?]] Then there is the chance that unemployment will fall.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3999	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor has notified himself. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I'm going to switch the clock to 20 minutes, but that's a target. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4029	High house! At the beginning I was very excited because of the introduction of the opposition leader Dr. Gusenbauer that it makes no sense when the opposition says every time: Austria is a bad valley, and the government celebrates everything. That is why I was really excited about what the new approach of opposition politician Alfred Gusenbauer is now in. Quite honestly: Now, after your speech, what does a unemployed person know? Where, now, is a concrete hope based on the measures and proposals you have made, that it will quickly find a job, that an entrepreneur can invest better and that the economic location will become safer and more stable? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] . I have, honestly, heard nothing else at all and seen what is repeated: a few new taxes, a training levy, a reduction in taxes – against which you have, by the way, voted. If you already demand tax reductions, why did you vote against the great package that we presented to Parliament a few months ago?- Oh, my God! So, honestly, Nothing new under the sun! That is why I must say quite openly: This does not justify a special meeting of the National Council, for which everyone has to come out of vacation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for this because we also have the opportunity to present to Parliament the results of the work we have done – Deputy Chancellors, Economic and Labour Ministers, Finance Ministers. I don't want to say now that everything is great, not at all! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to talk quite openly about the problems, the questions that we can influence – as well as the issues that we cannot influence. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Very superior!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The international economy can be a medium-sized one, a small country like Austria cannot really influence. In the euro area, this has grown by 0.2 percent in the last quarter, which, of course, is far too little than that we could get new employment impulses here. The oil price has gone up massively and has reached a record high of 64 US dollars per barrel. We can't influence that, we know! The monetary policy of the European Central Bank is no longer made in Vienna, but in Frankfurt. These are the questions that we can talk about and in which we will also set impulses at European level, but which Austria alone cannot influence. Nevertheless: What can you do? What can you influence nationally? – I believe that we have brought some things on the way, and I would like to talk about them too. First: Through profound reforms, we have made our social model sustainable and secure in Austria: whether it concerns pensions or the labour market. The fact that every unemployed person is being given 20 percent faster today than five years ago is a success of the reforms that we have set up. Equally affected are the health and education sectors. Further: We've invested. We have not only saved, but consciously set accents – and this, as no government has done before. Take, for example, the rich infrastructure: In the 15 years before the year 2000, a total of €20 billion was flown into the rail and road infrastructure. Hubert Gorbach has set the goal – and we meet it every year with our budgets – to invest €40 billion in the 15 years from 2000 to 2014; the double sum! Of these, 60 percent of the railways benefit. These are concrete results; not balloon, but concrete, hard proof, Josef Cap! Or take the area of education: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In 1999 we had an educational budget, which was around three-quarters of a billion lower than today. We set priority for training young people, and the result is: Today we have 10,000 students more in the higher education schools, we have more 13 000 higher education students – this is a doubling of the number of students – we have more 2 000 students in the field of the beginners, and we have more 4 500 university graduates. The university budget – without research and without the infrastructure investments now coming – is €450 million higher than in 1999. This is an offensive, a very concrete, hard proof! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Next point: We have invested in research. Of course, what we are using does not bring thousands of jobs in the future, but we have doubled research expenditure compared to 1999. We have actually reached the European average, and the € 1 billion that will be added by the year 2010 will help us to significantly improve the job situation in this area too. - Again, a very concrete point. The same applies to exports. I would also like to thank the economy and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Chamber and the Ministry, which, in an unprecedented export offensive, pushed the Austrian exports from €60 billion to €90 billion within five years. This is an increase of 50 percent, a very concrete, hard proof! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is undermined by the fact that we now – for the first time ever in the history of the Second Republic – had a balanced trade balance twice. That's still not perfect, I know, but it's at least a right way. If you want to change it, say it! Or you say: That's your okay, you're about to want some extra impulses in one area or another. – Absolutely all right, but at this level we should discuss each other! They mention active labour market policy – yes, I think it is very important. Here, too, the very concrete evidence: We'll fulfill what you want! Since 1999, expenditure on active labour market policies for women and for younger workers has been increased by 60 percent, for older workers even by 180 percent, and in total we have doubled the funds for active labour market policies. No balloon, no hot air, but very concrete, verifiable, hard facts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You, Mr Gusenbauer, are talking a little bit about what you call 'the summit'. I say quite frankly to you: How would you like it? Should we not talk to the social partners? Should we not try to improve the labour market situation with the nine federal states in Austria? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Should we not, together with the economic researchers, support two economic packages, a stabilisation programme, the biggest tax reform, the 1st May package for research and growth, and now, on Monday, with the nine federal states? Again a very concrete proof, and you rightly ask: What's going on under the line? Does it bring something? – The result: In 2002... – “Gar nicht”, this is a really typical, “different” answer, as I expect it from an opposition intermediate call, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Nothing! Nothing!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In 2002, we had 9 000 more jobs. In 2003, we had more 20 000 jobs. In 2004, there were 20 000 jobs again, and this year we are more than 31 500 jobs by the hour of the same month of the previous year. Again, a ambiguity: To get an unemployed person away, you first have to create a job. Therefore: The most important thing is to create jobs at all. Through all our actions – confirmed by the Economic Research Institute and the IHS – we were able to achieve between 0.6 and 0.7 percent higher economic growth per year. – A very concrete and clear proof of the accuracy of our actions! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As you all know, last Monday we negotiated the regional employment package with the nine federal states. I would like to say quite frankly: That was a very good conversation. The representatives of all nine federal states have come. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Nothing comes from speaking!]] You know: Three of them are at least led by the national leaders of your group and one by the alliance, so that can't have been a propaganda show. [[towards SPÖ]] On the contrary: It has been decided very specifically how we can optimise the opportunity to use it optimally for the remaining 18 months for which we still have EU funding. The result: We triple in these 18 months – fresh money! – the opportunities for regional support, and with the help of the EU budgets – which is also about €100 million – we will be able to bring almost half a billion euros of cash, i.e. real money to the investing companies. In addition, loans and liabilities will be added. In total, we have a total package of €1.2 billion, with guarantees, liabilities and loans increased by €100 million each, and we are trying to stimulate investment of €3 billion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Friends, if that succeeds, then that is not nothing, but then 20 000 jobs will be secured or re-created by these measures. And I say very openly: The safeguarding of existing jobs is also a special priority for all of us, not only the creation of new jobs, as important as it is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second issue at this regional summit was youth employment. Believe me, I think that is very, very essential! The boys must first and foremost get a chance to switch from education to a profession. Then they later do much easier to find a job themselves or, if they lose it, to find a new one. We have the so-called "Job for You(th)" programme for the 19 to 25-year-olds, which has enabled 10 000 young people to be employed. That was a pilot's attempt, and it proved to be first-class. Last Monday, therefore, we decided to extend this programme. We also do not want to say: If we need 1 000 more places, it will not fail. Every young person should have the opportunity to live in such an employment programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also very interesting to see that, within the last three years, the number of AMS members under 25 years of age has increased by at least 50 percent. However, we do not do this, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be beautiful about unemployment statistics, but for the purpose that young people – especially poorly qualified – will finally have the opportunity to learn something useful, to train and see how they are in the real world of work, so that we will give them the opportunity to do something easier later. The second focus is on apprentices. The federal government itself has promised to take in 800 additional apprentices. Half has already been implemented; the second part will be made by the beginning of 2006. On Monday, countries and municipalities have promised to offer 1 000 teaching places in addition to the courses they have anyway. I would particularly like to thank Sepp Rieder for his very, very positive response to this offer. I should also like to refer to the Youth Training Insurance Act, which provides for over €70 million and provides training for young people at almost 8,000 training places in the form of courses. The end of the tension is: Two out of three young people will then really find an apprenticeship and a job. We want to continue this by the end of next year – and, of course, beyond that, if this is necessary. The nursing training places are increased to 1,000. The so-called Blum model for additional apprenticeships, funded with 400 € per month, will be taken as early as September. I therefore believe that we have set a very important impetus in this area so that young people in particular have hope. I say quite frankly: Good policy is also not to constantly frighten people and not to present things worse than they are. They're not pink, but they're not as bad with God as they were painted here! We have every chance to be able to claim ourselves well internationally! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: It's bad enough, Federal Chancellor!]] Let us also say that we not only have an increased unemployment rate – as measured by our own high standard – but also the highest employment level in the history of the Second Republic with 3.33 million jobs. That's not a matter of course! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You just want to talk!]] This year there are 6 000 self-employed more than last year, 38 000 more in employment and acquisition than if we had not put in place these measures. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a part is of course also psychology. I would like to say very openly to you: Those who constantly try to give the impression that the European Union and Austria are in particular a pitiful and not one of the best countries in which it is worth living and investing, will help to increase the negative mood. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You are a pity!]] This is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, and we should turn to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you try to give the impression that entrepreneurs or investors are locusts, which you have best to fight with pesticides, instead of repurchasing them and bringing them here, it does not help to promote the economic location of Austria in sufficient form. Those who threaten rural areas, for example, to reduce at EU level by 50 percent of EU funding, and thus income, are at risk of half a million people living alone in Austria – and of millions at European level! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, Mr Gusenbauer: Do not frighten people, but give hope! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Who's doing this right now?]] Please refer to objective international criteria! I have here in my hand the country report of the 25th century. In July, the International Monetary Fund – which is usually very critical – handed over Austria. What does this internationally highly regarded institution say? – The most recent Austrian economic performance is “among the best in the Euro-era”, we are among the best in the entire euro area. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Was that the one that Argentina...?]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Was that the...?]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] This has to do with a very favourable development, with a very favourable economic policy, with far-reaching structural reforms – and with a social partnership that has helped to maintain the competitiveness of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we should build on the social partners, on these structural reforms which we have set, on the labour force, on the innovativeness of entrepreneurs. If we do, then no one can exceed us, then we don't have to fear anyone!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4360	We are now going into the debate. This is what Mr Vergebnissch has to say. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4384	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! In this es-go-we-doch-eh-so-good-world, you must not forget those who stand on the verge: on the edge of the world of work. And that's not a few, Federal Chancellor! If you allow a comparison to be illustrated, the following would mean: The current unemployment rate would result in the whole of Graz being out of work! No one in Graz would have work, we take the current unemployment statistics as a comparison: Liebenau without employment, Engelsdorf without employment, Neudorf without employment, Murfeld without employment, Rudersdorf without employment, Baierdorf without employment, Wetzelsdorf without employment – to name just a few districts! [[Call to the ÖVP: These are not districts!]] Why do I say that? – Because we cannot make the real situation clear to people with far too quickly mentioned figures! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] We must make it clear that it is a matter of concern, not only to the unemployed, but also to the families behind it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is not about making fear, but about making the challenge clear. If, according to the Central Statistical Office, a person in Austria needs €1 400 per month to be able to live, and at the same time it is found that unemployment benefit in Austria is € 750 per month for men and women – it is still lower for women – then it becomes very clear what it means to be unemployed. And this is not only a matter of the people concerned, but, in my opinion, it is also a matter for the economy, because we are essentially in relation to purchasing power in the back. Each economic research institute and every report, whether national or international, state that it is about the dubious demand. The economy is going well. Why is it not so good for the workers? – These are the questions that ask us. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you are talking about new approaches: Not the opposition was the first to write this in comments! – In concrete terms, what you carried out last Monday in a staged action has been criticized, because it is not about new money, but about the continuation of the already existing one: We are not talking about 1.2 billion new money, but, if at all, we are talking about over 200 million new money. If you mention the loans, I'll ask you: Do we have a problem with the ERP that loans cannot be allocated? – Rather, they are not picked up, because no company takes a credit if it does not have any prospects that this credit can be earned through employment! What is useful if we increase the credit framework if the existing funds are not even exploited? So let's not do something! It is really a question of having a debate on what the better policy is. If demand is actually lagging behind, we need to promote demand. If purchasing power in Austria has become weaker, we must note that between 2000 and 2005 workers were made available by 2.3 billion less money on the basis of the measures taken by this Federal Government. We must not forget that! Just think of all the loads there has been, the highway vignette, the pass fees and, and, and! [[Abg. Scheibner: Increased gas prices in Vienna!]] The employers, on the other hand, granted some 700 million to entrepreneurs. To promote demand in this context means to increase the negative tax. Stop saying: We can't afford that! 110 € Negative tax per month are just too little to increase purchasing power! We need 220 €, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Values Members of the Federal Government, the fact is that there is an argument about this: Is tax policy correct by promoting group taxation and thus promoting foreign investment, or would it not be more useful – as Mr Gusenbauer has already mentioned – to increase investment funding in the country again? I don’t hear that in the economy this provokes the cry “God be with us!” but everyone says: That would be a reasonable solution! Of course you would like both, I know. Who doesn't want that? But the fact is that the effect is to be checked! How do we create new jobs? By group taxation or by the investment exemption? – I personally claim: The investment exemption would become more effective in Austria than in the group taxation, which some may enjoy, but not small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Federal Chancellor said: We spend a lot of money on active labour market policies. - That's right! But we are not good again, because otherwise we would not be in the OECD's 15th place on active labour market policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say that you should pay attention to where we were before: Every step forward is to be welcomed, but we still have the problem of increasing unemployment. We currently have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic. You can't deny that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I already mentioned it: In the now updated question of the so-called combination wages, let us consider what effect this would have! You know the international examples. Surely that would help one or another. We cannot believe, however, that with the combination wage we find the right solution if we look only at the example Upper Austria, where now 14 percent more auxiliary workers are unemployed than a year ago! In my opinion, it is the much more intensive or better solution if one starts with qualification and in this way brings the people concerned away from the auxiliary work into a qualified activity, which secures them more income and more prosperity than at present, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] “If the economy is good, it’s good for the workers”, this is a slogan that is now on land, running down the land. But fact is – believe me, I could quote enough examples here! – that we get into a working world in which unfortunately the fear is handled and not the hope. If employees receive a contract in the hotel and hospitality sector, which reads as follows: Normal working time plus 20 hours free of charge, otherwise you won't get a job with me, then that's not the kind of working world, Austria and the Austrian companies. Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be in the interests of the economy if something like this becomes increasingly evident there and there. From this point of view, the slogan mentioned would clearly be a false report, and we should prevent that from happening. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] An example: 52 percent of the above-mentioned unemployed are women. For these, we need an intensive qualification programme, which is also in line with the living conditions of these people, not a programme that fits across it, but that is targeted at the problem group in cooperation between the social partners, the state government and the federal government and in which solutions are sought. In other words, we are simply continuing unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor said that we should also talk about what we are imagining: What does a unemployed person expect? – I would like to mention three points. First of all: Let's stop the shabby game around the classrooms! Every year we argue about this: Do we have enough or don't we have enough teaching places? If the economy is already unable to offer training places, we have enough training capacity. Mr. Federal Minister, you know that very well. There is no shortage of capacity. Let's stop the ideology fight! The economy needs young people in a few years, because this generation is getting older and older, and if we don't train them now, we have problems later. If, therefore, the economy is not in a position to train, we will create a training place together for everyone and will not do so in this context as it is now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Not only does the opposition claim that, but many business professionals keep saying that demand is lagging. I'm asking: Who will prevent us from levying €220 per month in future instead of € 110? – This promotes demand, which promotes domestic consumption, this helps the economy, and this also brings back to tax policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, there is therefore a need for concrete action! Why don't we sit down and do this immediately so that there is a demand effect that creates jobs? This is expected in the future! Let's talk to each other. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Vergestnitsch calls for a new summit!]] – We don't need a summit to do that! We can now sit back there and make a request if we want! We do not need a summit to do this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations and bravado with the SPÖ as well as congratulation with representatives of the Greens.]] One last wish: There have already been enough summits. We have made proposals at each of these summits. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you take on at least a few of our proposals? Why do you believe? You're right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4519	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4540	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! The joint education of will between the Federal Government and the federal states on Monday this week, namely to set up a total of €1.2 billion in subsidies and liabilities, is an important and necessary step because we can assume from experience that this will allow investment of €3 billion to be moved and that we achieve a growth of 0.5 to 0.8 percent. In my opinion, this is also important because this agreement is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises in the regions, in areas in which we are, so to speak, world champions, trade, crafts and services. In addition, this is a clear signal to young people. – I do not need to explain here the excellent project of Egon Blum, the Federal Government apprenticeship officer. Finally, this is also an agreement that does not entail new debts but also takes into account the Stability Pact accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, one side of the medal is that we have no doubt to complete after new EUROSTAT measurement with 5.1 percent unemployment. In the international comparison, we are still well in place. And if you, Dr. Gusenbauer, turn the medal around, you'll notice that 3.3 million are in employment. Ladies and gentlemen! As the summit or the meetings have been criticized here, I would like to say: The economic packages I, II and III and tax reforms I and II have always progressed on so-called summit talks. If this had not been done, we would not have 3.3 million employees and employees today, but according to WIFO, we would have significantly fewer employees and considerably more unemployed people, because the purchasing power would simply be in the basement. These measures, which have preceded the summit, have prevented us from having more than 200,000 unemployed people, and have caused more people to be in employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think the question of financial stability is particularly important. There are no new debts to make. I am still in the ear – it has been some time since – that a German chancellor has found in terms of combating unemployment that does not put him in a sleepless position to create a job for an unemployed person to 1 billion schilling. – The story, ladies and gentlemen, shows, however, that when money is put into it, ultimately both the tax billions and the jobs are gone, and in this economic error one should not fall again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As I am currently on the tax side, I can appeal to the Minister for Finance: I have recently again been interested in the way in which the tax residues are currently due. – So: If we get a third, we could take good care of fresh money. I therefore urge you to optimize these import procedures! This is also in the sense of the workers who actually supply taxes in this country most on time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out something that is of particular concern to me: Statistics supplied to us show that two thirds of the unemployed are not qualified for market needs. In this regard, I believe that there is much to be done in the preparatory and accompanying consultation. The need is to be explored accordingly so that we do not plan and train beyond what we need. I think that this is a very, very essential point to highlight clearly the change in consciousness, which Mr Vergestnitsch has also referred to with a very plausible example. I am very grateful for not having a summer show here today. To this day, the “Morgenjournal” was announced on and on its own. I have noted with a certain degree of contempt that high-ranking officials of the Social Democratic Party have made an attack on the house mind of the ladies and gentlemen Rieder, Burgstaller and Niessl, and have meant that they have become a “show” with the Federal Chancellor. They have worked well, but in the meantime, as I believe, we have a great deal of experience in the uniform search for lines by federal politicians and country politicians of SPÖ; I can only mention the examples of health financing and financial compensation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll bring you along with Mag. The main point is a motion for a resolution, Mr President, which I assume is that it is distributed.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4634	This has not yet been requested, but I will accept it because the request is extensive. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4650	The focus will focus on the rapid progress made by the agreement of Monday this week with the federal states within the meaning of the regional employment and growth offensive, on the consistent pursuit of the objective of a research rate of 2.5 percent and 3 percent respectively, and on the fact that the “Project 06” – I have already mentioned Egon Blum – is intended to promote additional apprenticeships to the 1. ==References== Furthermore, the tax reform in 2004/2005 aims to continue the tax rate of 2010 below 40 percent, and ultimately to ensure that the budgetary discipline we have carried out is maintained in the interests of those who need to reduce future debt. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am by no means depressing the labour market problem. But if I also look at the international and European context, I think that the opportunities that Austria can defend in its top economic position are greater than many pessimists, who are gathered here in the house too, mean. Mr Gusenbauer, you have written your application with “disasteral labour market situation”. – I mean: In view of the framework conditions in Austria to speak of a catastrophic situation, pure nonsense is - viewed coolly and objectively - pure nonsense. I can recommend that you take economic history in adult education seriously for yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4689	I welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neugebauer in his key points by Mr Neugebauer and Mr Magistrate. The main concern of the Federal Government's action on growth and employment is sufficiently explained, distributed and therefore under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4822	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Chief. His speaking time is 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4844	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Today's debate on unemployment and the situation in Austria gives me the opportunity to put a few things in the right light from the point of view of the smaller government group. Ladies and gentlemen! You have been able to convince yourself, and in my opinion, Mr Vergestnitsch has rightly received the unevenly stronger applause of his group as his party chairman, Gusenbauer. This is not an art either, because Vergestnitsch mentioned good measures taken together in his speech, while Gusenbauer presented the situation in Austria in a black and white painting, as they do not even experience the unemployed in this country. Mr Gusenbauer, perhaps you will learn from the ÖGB chairman how to really lead an opposition party with an eye-to-eye objective! I think it would be good for you not to be overtaken someday! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Cheap Polemik!]] Let us now go in media, Mr. Cot. Who could have imagined, when we joined the European Union ten years ago, that in 2005, in the case of labour market data with the increase in unemployment and in the host workers from the Federal Republic of Germany in Austria, we exceeded the growth rates to more than 100 percent, which we now regret and complain about? Who, Mr Cap, could have imagined that, while we have an increase in employment in eight federal states in Austria, with flourishing urban tourism in the capital and capital city of Vienna, we are less likely to lose 9 000 jobs in jobs and jobs, which we regret today as a result of 2004? If Vienna had kept what the other eight federal states held, we would not have a debate on high unemployment rates today, but would have a debate on how we could further strengthen positive development in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing is clear to me: The special meeting would certainly not have been saved from us after you, Mr Gusenbauer, left your first holiday destination, as you hear, and then left for the second time. That is why we experience the usual summer theatre here, which can also be said to the citizens. You can almost reconcile the dates with your calendar. It is not the situation of the Republic, but it is the date calendar of Mr Gusenbauer, who is bringing us to the High House here – and then your debate, Mr Gusenbauer, also looks forward to it. I would recommend that you study more politics and the future on holiday and less past and history, then we could also be heard about future aspects of social democracy, but not only in the type of the five pages comprehensive elaborate, but also interpreted authentically by you – then the unemployed in Austria might recognize themselves. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] However, one thing should not be promised to the unemployed in Austria: that in the course of training on care and healing professions, which Mr Bartenstein successfully supports, 17 to 24 months of training will be completed in three months or in four hours of a special session – there will be no such thing! But all of us agree that the employment programmes for more than 5,000 people who are unemployed and interested in being continued or re-educated in healthcare and care professions are the right way to eliminate the need for care on their own in Austria and not the way in which it wanted to have public assistance, namely through the integration of illegal workers in Austria. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's incredible...!]] I believe that the Austrian unemployed should first get a meaningful future job – and only then should some be done to install the illegal workers in Austria. That's my opinion. And if you believe that this is inappropriate, you should look at the press releases this year on this subject, Mrs Silhavy! These reports have not gone down in the past in Nirwana, but have to be read in APA and OTS. It is quite an exercise that should be carried out before a special meeting if you want to talk about the topics that people in this country are working on. The emergency situation in the care sector is certainly something that employs people in this country, and the training of people who are interested in care is certainly right. This brings me to the active labour market policy. – Dear ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! In 2004, we spent more time on active labour market policies in Austria than has ever been spent in history. We have increased them by more than 50 percent compared to the figures of 1999, when social democracy still dominated the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Csörgits.]] I mean, it can never be enough, but one should also not underestimate the quality of current training through the labour market service. While for the fourth time people were able to learn a self-invention course and for the third time to learn the covered Christmas table, they are actually getting skills that benefit them in their professional life. So there are not women there who learn the design of the Christmas table for their activity in the household or housemen. This should be active labour market policy, active labour market policy with skills, with additional qualification and with future option – and not “active” labour market policy, just to bring people out of statistics! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, the people are not familiar with your criticism very slowly. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Go, go, go!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Three months ago, you announced that in my colleague Bartenstein's statistics, too many people are being hidden in the continuing and continuing training of the AMS, and have always tried to dramatize the number of unemployed people who are in training systems and who are supposed to be hidden there. But today you say that all this is too little. Are there too few who have been “hidden” in further education to remain in your terminology? Whether to hide more than [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] – No, they should be better qualified, they should finally have a chance to get work and employment. I am therefore very satisfied that last year we have pursued 50 percent more active labour market policy than ever in socialist-dominated governments, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Let us also talk about the education system. 24 000 more in the vocational colleges are a good testimony to economic training. Look They address the graduates and their labour market situation in the technical professions: three to five occupations from which they can choose. One must therefore finally take this – and there the Vienna City School Council is as required as those in the other federal states – to go offensively to the schools. We carried out a project in Carinthia at the time with the speaker Kircher-Kohl, a successful entrepreneur who was not known to you at the time in Carinthia, namely women and those groups who are particularly affected by unemployment, including senior academics, in technical professions with high demand value, because there she is needed. There they are urgently needed, there is a need for it, but there are too few interested people at the universities and at the colleges. We could all work together – your city council members, as well as those of the other political groups in Austria – to bring young people into future careers and to promote their vocational training. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] It should not be overlooked that we have already achieved success with combination wages in some areas – I am thinking of the disabled billions. The combined wage should therefore not simply be labeled as a combination wage, and the German example of a foundry policy should not be used, because the combination wage with the heart and the brain can certainly also bring employment and work to Austria. I am pleased that you, Mr Gusenbauer, have now taken up the reform proposals for a further tax reform of the head of state of Carinthia, but you have also needed two and a half months to do so. Maybe you should react a little faster in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4978	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4999	Mr President. Mr. Bundeskanzler, it is far from me to describe the “Jammertal Austria” – I do not see that either. It is about identifying certain areas of problem and trying to develop appropriate solutions. For example: Recently, I met a young guy – I call him Rudi. My Rudi is 15 years old, school dropout, has no high school, is discouraged, currently has a bit of a depressive foundation, is in doubt that puberty is not finished properly, late developer – should be there –; a difficult situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Apparently, the parents could not help him properly for various reasons. What does Rudi need? – I think this is clearly obvious: First of all, he needs professional psychological help to get back to life. That's the most important thing. Secondly, he needs the possibility of uncomplicated, unbureaucratic replication of primary school. Thirdly, he needs a good apprenticeship. I mean not only that he receives good training, but also a training site that shows the likelihood that he will actually find a job after training. - All these are not small tasks. Fourthly, he can't influence that at all, he needs an economic, economic environment with sufficient economic growth, so that his labour force is then eventually asked for. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Creates the AMS...?]] If you are generalising this briefly, Mrs Collaborative – in fact, we should all know that – means: The risk of becoming unemployed is very much correlated with the state of training. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Exactly! Is that what the AMS is doing?]] Or less technically: The worse the training, the higher the risk of becoming unemployed later. We know that. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, but the AMS creates the compensation...?]] Mr Bartenstein, for example, thankfully recently, in a “NEWS” interview on the situation of poorly trained, mostly school leavers, said the following – I quote –: Here's the situation alarming. And: We – I suppose with “we” the Federal Government is meant, but I join in – agree with the social partners that a lot of money has to be spent on qualifications. Unfortunately, practitioners also know that it often depends on the motivation of the individual. - Quote. I hope that with the second sentence, you, Minister Bartenstein, did not suggest that the motivation of the individual is something that can or may be left only to him or her. It also needs professional help, and it costs money. With the first sentence you are perfectly right, only nothing has happened! Last week you said that we need more money here and that you will talk to Minister of Finance Grasser. The result of this week: There's no more money. – This is not only dramatic, but also depressing. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Second situation – no designed example –: A young woman, I call her Martha, 35, medical-technical assistant – in other words, she has an education, but she has two children, one in preschool, one in elementary school. She'd even get a job, but where about the kids? What's the answer? – First of all: Childcare in the preschool age. Secondly, a larger range of all-day schools so that it can use its labour force and not waste the human capital it has already acquired. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There we are on the right path!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And thirdly, sufficient economic growth to keep their labour force in the market. Why do I keep coming up with economic growth? – Mr Bundeskanzler! This “package”, this package, whether it’s good or bad in detail, this package from Monday will certainly not be enough to bring Austria to a higher growth path than before! Why do you have to emphasize that? – Mr Bundeskanzler! You know as well as I do – after all, you have an economic education and training – that with these Austrian growth rates, which are less than 2% per year, unemployment in Austria cannot and will not be mastered! The increase in labour productivity in Austria is usually that God is grateful, overall in the order of 2 to 3 percent per year – the human spirit is so innovative, people are constantly inventing new machines, new work processes, a better logistics than before – and this increase in labour productivity allows for increasing prosperity in Austria and elsewhere in the world. This is the sun side of modern capitalism, if you want to, but the shadow side is that this increase in labour productivity forces us to achieve economic growth at least at the same level, otherwise unemployment will inevitably rise. Mr. Federal Chancellor, even there we do not need to reinvent the world. The Institute for Economic Research, WIFO, presented strategies to increase economic growth in Austria in the June issue of the WIFO monthly reports. It is an article by Professor Aiginger, the new head of the institute. Agiger here outlines seven problem areas, seven fields of work in which we should invest our energy in particular. I'll give you a short list: first of all: Innovation and research; second: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Let's do it!]] Training; thirdly: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Let's do it!]] Training; fourthly: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Let's do it!]] Infrastructural investment; fifthly: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Let's do it!]] Labour market promotion and incentive structures; sixthly: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Let's do it!]] 7th, last but not least: [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Stand in the government program!]] Environmental technologies. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] I'm not saying nothing happened, but that's a programme for the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: The present! Let's do it now!]] Let us not talk about the past and about whether the measures of the Federal Government have contributed to the fact that 50,000 unemployed have arisen or have not been created, but let us talk about the future. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is an essential difference!]] These are, I think, very essential recommendations from the WIFO, which I could only mention the seven keywords. Under each of these keywords, the WIFO recommends ten, 15 sets of measures, which are to be done in detail. There must be no fear of it in Austria either. If, for example, it means: Labour market promotion and incentive structures, then there is no limitless flexibilisation or the like, but it is pointed out, for example, that the transition from social assistance to work in Austria remains in such a way that the incentive structures are wrong. This can be done differently, and we should have managed it differently for a long time. Or in the field of further education – I avoid the word of lifelong learning, for who wants to be made to anything for life? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Lifelong!]] –: The fact is that, given the demographic development in a short time, the proportion of 50-65-year-olds in the labour force will be the highest; higher than that of all younger workers. This presents quite new challenges to the continuing training structure in Austria. There is no need to fear anyone either, I believe that this new growth strategy, this effort to raise Austria to another growth path, the social cohesion, social cohesion in Austria, or the sustainability of environmental policy is in conflict. On the contrary, I think, for example, the financing of pensions will be easier and not more difficult if we manage to achieve higher growth rates. And Austria has learned in environmental policy, I believe that in the long term it will certainly be much more expensive to produce, so to speak, dirt in the short term and to bury in the earth than to practice prevention. Keywords: Fischer-Deponie in Lower Austria and the billions of schilling that cost the repair of these damage at that time. Summary: We need higher economic growth in Austria – I also expressly say this as a greener. The European Union's Lisbon objectives meet these objectives, even if they are not currently being successfully pursued within the European Union. It is also not the case that all these measures will only become effective in the medium term; some of them will work in the short term. Remember, for example, in the area of thermal building renovation, a number of targets can be met simultaneously, namely lower heating costs, better fulfilment of Kyoto targets, reduction of CO2 emissions and promotion of local trade with the corresponding labour market effects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5230	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His preferred speaking time is 10 minutes, the government's remaining speaking time is 14 minutes. – Mr Vice-Chancellor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5252	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I also listened with great interest to the introduction, the justification of the opposition leader Dr. Gusenbauer and thought: Hoppla, there is something new presented today! when he said it would be customary for the opposition to make things bad and paint black and the government sells the positive achievements. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are we in government or you?]] There you would have expected something new to come, but unfortunately it came again once more differently in this respect than you thought or wished. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... unless you've gotten a new job?]] But it would be as if Christmas, Easter and a summer special meeting of the National Council fell together, the opposition would also let the positive achievements of the government live and acknowledge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And we need to wait a little longer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was already interesting to listen closely to the presentation by Professor Van der Bellen. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Matznetter]] He said, like casting builders, that although there are no patent solutions, unemployment is a subject that everyone should take seriously. I say: Yes, Austria is not an island of the Blessed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] We will also have to work and judge this internationally, and we will also have to draw comparisons with earlier. But I liked your speech, Dr. Van der Bellen, above all, that you have very well counted up the government work and have indirectly – even if you may not want to do so – praised it. They have said that it is a matter of identifying and acting certain areas of problem. So you have shown how the government has worked so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] This also shows the result of an IMD study from Switzerland. This is the study of the Institute for International Management Development, which examines 60 locations worldwide every year and has found that Austria has suddenly moved ahead of Switzerland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Mr. Doctor, the reason for this is as follows: Although Austria also had to deal with the Europe-wide economic flute, the economy was better able to evade this flaw because, among other things, flexible workers, skilled workers, flexibly addressed these circumstances, and policy has put in place the right economic and tax policies in good time. This is a compliment we get from abroad because we have now implemented four economic packages and two stages of important tax reform measures, at the right time in the right size and in the right direction, to the right place. It is obvious that this has been recognized. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am going – apart from the original project – because the Federal Chancellor has already listed everything that has been properly taken into account – now more about your speech. They have also mentioned the really touching history of school dropouts: no primary schooling, de-motivized, a young person who should actually be introduced into working life. I can tell you this very well, but I can tell you the answer: This is because the repetition of a master's degree or even a school degree is called "Job for you(th). [[Abg. May. Worm: But too little!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: But far too little!]] I'm sure you've heard that before. So the government has already implemented what you have listed, what you should do. [[Abg. May. Worm: A course from the bfi...!]] I can also tell you if you do not know, Professor: The Chambers of Commerce in various federal states with the support of the Federal Government also offer mediators or tutors to provide psychological care to help in such cases of problem not to become long-term unemployed. That's exactly what we're doing. [[Abg. Sburny: Why do people still stand on the street and don't have exactly what they need? – Something doesn't work with you...!]] You also said, Professor Van der Bellen: the “pack of Monday”. – You know, if the “pack of Monday” here is so called or by “mogel pack” or “summer show” or whatever is spoken, I may tell you: At least €250 million of fresh money was released! For those who have not completely made the reference to the euro: That's about 3.5 billion schilling in old currency. And you say, the “packet”! – That was the fourth “package” for tax reform, including economic packages €4 billion! – So this is an ordinary package that this government has strapped! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But there's something like a summer highlight now, and that's why I'm happy and I think it's good that we're discussing today. Although I wonder whether we are making a more substantial contribution today to combating unemployment, creating jobs, for example, on Monday at this “packet” and this “mogel pack” and this “summer show” than the Federal Government, which has put together the responsible ministers with the heads of state and country women – all of them, because we take this very seriously and have not seen party-politically – and have made sure that we are coordinated, proceed together, also exploiting EU opportunities, making optimum use of them, nothing fails to do with the seventh framework programme that is in place, and before the end of funding opportunities. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You don't want to do anything, Mr. Vice chancellor?]] You then said to quote Professor Aigerger of the WIFO from his monthly report, one must do more in terms of innovation and research. [[Deputies Dr. Fekter and Dr. Stummful: Let's do it! Let's do it!]] – The government has doubled the amounts in this area! We are there as good as never before – whether you like to hear it or not. [[Abg. Eder: Go, stop!]] We spend as much as never before: The research rate, you know, which is announced for the year 2005, amounts to 2.38 percent of GDP. We're on the right path! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (a hand movement calling for approval) Hallelujah!]] Second: Training. – It is used there as much as never before! Even if you are not tired of criticizing Mr Gehrer: We are there not only with money, but also with ideas as well as ever before! And also in education, in adult education and wherever this is the case. - That was the third point. And because you have also mentioned the subject of infrastructure, I can tell you that €6 billion will be used in the next two years for the infrastructure, for rail and road. That's an absolute record mark! Only the 300 million we have on the last “packet, ” on the 1st. Mr Van der Bellen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Don't underestimate that! We have released 125 million per year for research there. Five more jobs! – And you're bagatelizing this and saying that’s “packet” and a “summer show” and a “mould pack”! I do not think this is a good way to deal with the problem of unemployment in Austria – also in Austria, but in principle across Europe, with us still relatively good in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have also mentioned environmental technology, and I can tell you: That was at this “packet” session on Monday theme! There were new ideas. A country captain has also suggested that the conversion to solar energy should be promoted more [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer]] This would also serve small and medium-sized enterprises, which would be environmentally friendly, since installers are again employed, as is invested by the savings book. [[Abg. Sburny:... “revolutionary” what has been done there!]] - That's what we want! This is a good investment – not in public infrastructure, but in private infrastructure. So on Monday we discussed not only “packeting” but also created new ideas. And they're also going on, Professor Van der Bellen. Finally – because you like to compare internationally; I do not, because you know the figures all the best, Mr Gusenbauer as well as Mr. Van der Bellen and all of you as you sit there – I still compare unemployment in Austria in its duration: In view of the fact that five years ago the average length of job search for an unemployed person was 140 days and was reduced to 108 days in 2004, i.e. by 20 percent, it is seen that Austria is not only good at international comparisons, but that we are also better on the road than ever in the past. That doesn't mean we won't do anything to get even better. But in conclusion, I say: It means that “feared to death has also died. ” I mean, Smelled to death and ransacked, too. – We should stop ranching, we should act! We'll do that. This government is working towards reducing unemployment! [[Call the SPÖ:Don't get the unemployed out there!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5529	The remaining speaking time of the members of the government is 5 minutes. The next word is that of Mrs Silhavy. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5554	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Bundeskanzler, we have heard examples today – Mr. President Verzetznitsch and Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen have shown examples – of how unemployed people in Austria are doing. And there, I have to say, I am really deeply upset if you think that high unemployment would not justify a special session of the National Council. [[Abg. Scheibner: No: The proposals you have made!]] I don't think that's the right way to deal with this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you say that we are going to see what comes out today, I can tell you the following: It depends on the representatives of the ÖVP and the BZÖ or the liberal club, which comes out! If you agree with our request, you will see that something positive comes out to combat unemployment. I fear only because of your opinions, which you have given here, that this will is de facto not available to you. It's no wonder, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, every third person in Austria is afraid of becoming unemployed, and the people are rightly expecting and hoping for measures from you – and emergency measures that do not precipitate that after each summit unemployment has increased again, but that there are indeed fewer unemployed people in Austria. And, Federal Chancellor: I believe that cynicism by the Federal Government on this issue is really not in place! It is to be condemned when you say on the subject of unemployment that it is a small mistake in beauty, or talk about a mickymeaus theme. [[Deputies Mag. Molterer and Dr. stupid: He didn't say that!]] – Mr Bundeskanzler, I would really like to point this out in the name of those concerned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it is no better, too, if the competent Minister of State, Mr Bartenstein, speaks of the fact that the bottom of the valley has been reached, and that we have overcome everything – and unemployment increases from month to month. In this respect, from the point of view of the parties concerned, it is more likely that, as you said in July 2004, the Austrian economic location will be excellently positioned. But perhaps that's about the same scale you're doing, if you pay Mrs. Land Captain Klasnic the highest consideration in the promotion of Herberstein and her behavior. The question is: Does this respect for Mrs Landeshupt also apply in connection with her failure at Spielberg or with the further move of the Semmering base tunnel on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day by selling an old, unrealized concept as a new one? – This too has to do with labour market policy, and it is no wonder that unemployment in Styria has increased by 8.8 percent. [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs. Colleague, Spielberg is a red city! That's where the Voves is in charge! - What's the Voves doing? – 300 000...!]] 8.8 per cent, Mrs Steibl! That should also give you reason to think, and you should finally lose your party-political glasses and devote yourself to the problems of the people in this country. You've been elected for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, Mr Neugebauer – I do not see him in the hall now – the position at the ÖVP is certainly uniform when it comes to ignoring and blocking proposals and ideas from other parties to other groups. In the Styria you strangled the “Stiermark-Holding”. The concept of the “Steiermark of the Regions” of the Styria SPÖ is located in the countryside and is simply blocked. [[Abg. Zweytick: Do you want to go back to the national lights? – This is a policy of yesterday!]] Our proposals here in the House to combat undeclared work, our proposals for a sensible tax reform, all this is negated by you. All we have proposed to you in connection with the 2005 and 2006 budgets – where we have already prophesied that unemployment will not be reduced – you have removed from the table. You didn't even discuss it with us. And now you're pretending it's a joint effort: They want to fight unemployment together with us. – We put concepts on the table, we make proposals – you ignore it. [[Abg. Zweytick: Because we have the better ideas!]] On the contrary: Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to The position of the Federal Minister was: open up further, open everything up! – Black-on-the-collar work: Nothing goes on. The Federal Minister says: We have already done everything, Blackwork is not a topic! although we only had a dramatic case in Styria yesterday. You say you've created a record number of jobs. – 61,000 full-time jobs have disappeared during your reign – but people need full-time jobs, because of “Easy Jobs”, from “McJobs” people cannot live here. And it may not be that in a rich country like Austria people have to go to work and at the same time get social assistance so that they can even exist in that country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Social Democrats give you a real hand, we like to give you our concepts and our ideas when it comes to solving people's problems. Take this hand and play You don't have power and ignorance! They do not ignore the SPÖ, but they ignore the problems of people, their anxieties and fears – and that is not what people in Austria deserve!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5707	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He has eight minutes' speaking time, because he has given the three minutes' speaking time to Mr Neugebauer, in accordance with our Presidential Agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (on Abg. Dr. Stumblingly Wise) Why is he?]] I should also like to point out that the SPÖ is good for a minute and that the freedom-free club also has a minute. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5743	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To Mrs Silhavy, my previous speaker, just one word: Mrs Silhavy, as far as Styria is concerned, I can understand that you are not quite up-to-date, but your party friend Voves came back from a longer Mauritius holiday only two days ago. My understanding of this – I can understand that! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] [[Mr Silhavy and Mr Mag. Worm.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How's the Herbersteins?]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my debate, I would like to try to clarify a few things. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How's the Herbersteins?]] The first point – and I look at Mr Gusenbauer – is: Mr Gusenbauer, I think the expectation of the media is being fulfilled: This special meeting, which requires opposition, does not create a single job. The difference to the summit on Monday is that concrete measures have been put in place to create and safeguard jobs. This is the division of work between government and opposition: The government is working, taking concrete measures – and the opposition quickly requires a special meeting between two holiday dates of Mr Gusenbauer. Mr Gusenbauer, I fully understand your criticism of the summit talks. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand: You're having a hard time! During the summit talks, your party friends as national leaders all agree – Burgstaller, Niessl, Rieder in the representation of Häupl – and you state here that everything is bad. There is, of course, an incredible credibility deficit for you! That is why I understand your criticism of the summit talks. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: This is an important topic!]] [[Call the SPÖ:You should stick to the topic!]] Next point: Today, Mr Gusenbauer, you have put your programme “Contract for Austria” to our attention. I've had this printed out again: This programme is up to date from March this year. – So this programme is very up-to-date when you base the labour market data of March. We are discussing today half a year later, and I would have expected a few new measures from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Don't be ridiculous!]] Another word to you, Mr Gusenbauer: We are ready at any time – at every hour! – to talk to you about measures to combat unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not at all...! You don't even hear what Members here...!]] But to one we are not ready, I say that very clearly: To the left ideologies according to the motto: the farms belong more taxed, to the municipalities we take a third of the municipal tax away, and in addition we make more debts!, we are not ready to do so, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] So first of all: This special meeting does not create a single job – contrary to the government's programme. Secondly, We agree that there are no patent recipes, Mr Gusenbauer. I am very happy about this, because you have often given the impression: If we only make more debt, we powder more money into it, then we have more work! – So there are no patent recipes. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why are you deliberately talking nonsense?]] Let me also mention a third point: The fight against unemployment, the fight for more employment is a national concern, a national act of strength! It is not only the government that is required, but all those in this country who are willing to take responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Government, the countries, the municipalities, the social partners, the collective contractual partners – down to the individual responsibility of each individual. I understand this by means of a national act to combat unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer:... social policy project!]] A fourth point: Neither do we believe, dear Hannes Bauer, that everything is to do with money alone! This socialist concept: Let us make more debt, and let us powder more billions into it, and with that we buy jobs!, this is a concept that has failed, namely at the “consumer”, at the national level, at Bank Austria – and it will now also fail at Bank Burgenland, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Let us stick to the data situation, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Clear the content, your post! Painful!]] Where are we on the labour market? – We have too many unemployed – no question at all! – but we are not the island of the Blessed! If we had unemployment on the basis of the EU average, we would have 166,000 more unemployed in this country – a terrible idea! [[Abg. Oils: Really, this is not to be interrupted!]] Despite high unemployment in the EU, we are still the fifth best country in 25 countries. Our youth unemployment is only half as high as in the EU average, ladies and gentlemen. – But we are not the island of the Blessed! Let me also say: In five and a half years, this government has done more for Austria's economic and work location than any government before, ladies and gentlemen. That can be proved! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It was the economics package 1, it was the economics package 2, it was the growth and location package, it was tax reform 1, it was tax reform 2: We did all that! If we have a higher economic growth in Austria today than it is in the EU average, if we have twice as high growth as Germany, this is not a coincidence, but it is the result of the measures of this Federal Government! [[Abg. May. Worm: Ask the people how they are!]] [[Abg. Mandak: But we have the highest increase in unemployment!]] This can be proved – and the whole world envys us about these successes, ladies and gentlemen! – The opposition not? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call:Not the opposition only]] Of course I admit: The labour market is developing very differently. [[Call to the Greens: Not to say, vertically!]] I admit we had 9 900 more unemployed in July. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You're talking about people!]] At the same time, however, we had around 38 000 more employees – self-employed and self-employed –, ladies and gentlemen. We should also take a closer look at this phenomenon: The labour market is no longer responding as it used to be. And, Mr Oillinger, just a wack with my hand is a little too little for me. There I am for very constructive conversations – and not for intermediate calls or a wack with my hand! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Sburny: You're for constructive conversations?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Here you are the “right ”!]] Let me mention one more point. I would like to try to move the bandwidth a little further in this short debate. I believe that five priorities are needed to combat unemployment: Firstly, economic growth – I believe we all agree – second qualification, third willingness to work, fourth flexibility and fifth permission of jobs, administrative authorisation procedures. First point: Growth. [[Abg. Riepl: And what about the purchasing power?]] – Mr Riepl, you can come to the speaker's desk. I am very excited about your contribution to the debate. [[Abg. Riepl: That will be good too!]] First: Growth. – We have a higher growth in Austria today, please, than it is in the EU average! Secondly, Qualification. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about higher or low, but about needs-based qualifications! My Schuster – location: next to the opera – says that he will now be locked because he doesn't get a shoe throughout Vienna. My gardener says he can only come in a few months when the winter is there. [[Abg. Reheis: Do you have your own gardener?- Oh, my God!]] You can't get gardeners in Vienna! – There would also be a need for appropriate qualification. [[Abg. Reheis: He has his own gardener!]] [[Abg. May. Worm:... own gardener!]] Thirdly, Employment. – Ladies and gentlemen, I expect – and this is an expectation for the social partners, Mr Verzellnitsch – a study that shows why we have 210 000 unemployed, but now 50 000 German workers are already working with us. I want the study because I am convinced that our employees are no less qualified and no less willing to work. But why do we have 50,000 German workers in Austria? Fourthly, more flexibility. – All businesses demand more flexibility. Half a year ago, the social partners delegated this to the collective treaty partners – which is not the primary task of the government – but this half-year, Mr. Trade Union President, nothing has happened except in the field of printing and paper on the responsibility of social-democratic trade unionists. Fifth, you open a bottle Authority authorisation procedures. – If an industrialist today decides to create a new project that is subject to EIA, this means, on average, an approval period of one and a half years. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a cliché ten years ago!]] That is to say, the decision will take place in August 2005, the launch will take place in February 2007. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 42 days approval procedure!]] – It can't be! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You tell fairy tales!]] I expect both the execution and the federal states to do what this government has done, namely, the concentration of proceedings and the acceleration of procedures! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: You are invited to make constructive proposals – in the sense of a national effort, we are always ready to talk about it! [[Abg. Sburny: Too what?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6179	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6200	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to listen to the opposition at this special meeting today. Who is the cause of the fact that the unemployment rate is so high? [[Abg. Red: Blue-black!]] What would it look like if FPÖ and ÖVP had been in government over the last 30 years? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Then we would not have to pay 174 billion €, then we, the taxpayers, would not have to pay 7 billion € in interest! This is what your governments, the governments of SPÖ Chancellors and SPÖ Finance Ministers, have to do. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, I have been very careful about what you have said about unemployment. He said the government ignores these numbers, the government shows shame and much more. – Mr Gusenbauer, I have seen you sitting at the employment summit on 1st. May, but I didn't hear many ideas from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I wasn't there!]] You weren't there? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You should open your eyes!]] ==References== In August there were talks again, there was another employment summit, and at each of these summits billions of investment have been decided to increase growth in order to secure employment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's it!]] In addition, as Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have already said today, many, many packages have been chained. We could have tied a lot, much more if we hadn't had to take over these debts. Mr Van der Bellen was not present today, apart from his speech without content. His statements of today were not even a Gaudi; now and then he has something on the hat in this sense. Under a SPÖ government from 1989 to 1993, the unemployment rate has increased from 149 000 to 222,000, i.e. plus 49 percent despite an increase in GDP of 13.2 percent! Under the government of ÖVP and the liberals in the years 2000 to 2004, unemployment rose by 25 percent, with GDP growth of 7.4 percent. [[Abg. Brosz: When does the speech actually begin?]] If I look at the SPÖ's economic programme now – where's Mr Matznetter, he's not yelling today, what's wrong with him?; the economic programme, I think, has been drawn up mainly by Mr Matznetter, then I must say: What proposals has the SPÖ always made? It has proposed, on the homepage in 2002, to increase the low income tax, the low real estate tax, the assessment of the land, the inheritance tax, special payments by much more. – The current government has not done that! This government has developed appropriate investment programmes and thereby resulted in discharges! A few of them I must make you feel at this point again, because you all voted against from the opposition, especially from the SPÖ: Where was the SPÖ when we decided to discharge over 3 billion for taxpayers or entrepreneurs, on the basis of which since 1. January 2005 each employee per month, plus pensioners, has more euro in cash sacks? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where was the discharge?]] Where was the SPÖ at the disabled billion? Where was the SPÖ – why did you not agree? – at the educational offensive? This FPÖ/ÖVP government has introduced the child money! You've had the karenz money where no limit of merit, except minor, has existed. Now there is a commitment limit of €14 600, corresponding arrangements regarding the credit for the pension and much more. – This is family policy! Infrastructure: up to 2010 €30 billion, employment offensive for road and rail. That's what our vice chancellor did. Furthermore, for workers: Increase in the amount of workers' redundancies. Further: Increased care and much more. Of course, we must not be on the spot, but we must continue to work. Something else, very important for the youth: We from politics can only create the framework conditions, the economy has to deal with. That is why I am trying to give young people a chance to take on apprentices. In addition, we must all, both from politics and the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers and the trade union, try to upgrade those professional groups, where there is a shortage of skilled workers, in public opinion, and then the unemployment rate in Austria will be reduced.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6326	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. Your speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6347	Mr President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! High house! I think there is a fundamental misunderstanding here in the opinion that there should be a special session and what the work of the National Council actually is. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Walch was disappointed that the speech by Alexander Van der Bellen was not funny – obviously he is expecting entertainment here – and the representatives of the ÖVP, for example, stupid, clearly assume that all of this should be done as quickly as possible so that one can go home again, because a Parliament has nothing to report on unemployment anyway and anyway to decide not to do anything anyway. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You didn't listen to him!]] Our understanding is quite different. [[Abg. Großruck: But don't recognize yourself either!]] We wanted this special meeting for a very important reason: not to exchange some kind of discussion here, but we wanted a concrete package to be tied up so that these 300,000 people – perhaps some of them sitting in front of the televisions today – will actually have a perspective in some form. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you say that proposals for measures to combat unemployment from the opposition are essential, I wonder if you have really checked every single recipe against unemployment so carefully that you can make yourself here with such a security: Everything we do is perfect and sufficient, and everything the opposition proposes is unnecessary and unnecessary! [[Abg. Murauer: Who said that?]] – This is a quotation from my colleague, that is not our opinion. I would like to go out of this House today with a package of measures which can give some perspective to young unemployed people, especially women. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now to your prospects of Monday. What did you decide? [[Abg. Amon: What do you suggest?]] They have decided to relocate the ERP loan, where there has been no bottleneck anyway. You have decided to extend the acceptance of liability by the aws, where sufficient resources are available, and you have decided to prefer the “teaching promotion Blum”. – That was essentially your program. They have not addressed the proposals made by the Greens and the SPÖ, which we have been putting on the table for days. I would like to repeat this once again, because there are no reasonable arguments against it. If you think that of three women who go into baby care, only two will come back and that this will become even worse, that by now very, very many in the best working age between 25 and 50 have no more opportunity to get back to work, then we suggest: Please, let us make a women's re-entry package, please, let's look at how unemployment has developed in this area, plus 40 per cent!, and then you say that this is an "necessary measure", Mr. Cott stupid, then I must say: I really can't take that! Youth employment. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] – A plus compared to the previous year: almost 4,000 more unemployed young people between 15 and 24! Our proposal – the example of Dallinger’s then “Action 8 000”, a very useful action – is financed by the public sector to two thirds: To create jobs in the non-profit sector, in the care sector, in the cultural sector, in the environment, in science, in research. 10 000 jobs for 15 to 24 year olds had already brought a clear relief from September. We would have liked to discuss this today, and we would also have decided on something in this direction. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's how you do it!]] But what are you doing? – They say: The opposition proposals to combat unemployment are essential, we have done everything! This is not the way to deal with people. And by the way, Mr President, I find your way of doing this indispensable! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In each measure of the last five years - Economic and Social Package I, II, Growth, Stability Package, Tax Reform 2004, 2005 - you have promised each time: [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] Jobs are created and secured! Now, in this package, you're not even sure whether even a single job will be created, because you can't even agree on whether it's "creating" or "safening". [[Abg. Grossruck: She doesn't know herself!]] The tax reform, the millennium reform: The largest tax reform of the Second Republic is already now, half a year after in-power steps, obviously bad, especially since even out of your ranks massive calls for a novel, after a new tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] If at that time you had put this enormous income from the reduction in corporate tax, this €1 billion, into a reduction in additional labour costs, into a reduction in labour-related taxes and taxes, then we would have created thousands of new jobs in this area. But you have reduced exclusively profit taxes. If you'd been listening to the business researchers! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I share your opinion that the most important thing is growth, not, I have a different opinion on it. The most important thing in a country like Austria is to invest in training, in skills, in research and development and in education. We need good people, that's the only key to getting companies into the country to keep them here and to employ our people in the medium term. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Let's do it!]] That's the only key! If I hear something like solar promotion, new innovation, new idea, then I get a laugh, really, Mr Gorbach, and you are responsible for innovation, development, technology in this country! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6515	Mr Bartenstein has now been reported to speak. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6536	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I didn't quite understand you now, lady. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. You have raised allegations, which would not have come, and you have talked about the ideas you have, but I have asked the President of the National Council: There is so far no request on your part on the subject of today's special session! With me you do not need to discuss the understanding of Parliament, I have that, and there can be a special meeting on this issue is undisputed. You said that on Monday this week a mogel pack had been presented, which was nothing, the regional employment and growth initiative. – If the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor expressly welcome the leaders of the countries and, finally, social-democratic national leaders there welcome these measures, which will be presented there, I know that there is a 1.2 billion-€ package in favour of investment in Austria, and it has been decided that this will bring something in concrete terms, namely the protection and creation of up to 20 000 jobs within the next one and a half years, at least as far as the processing of applications for funding is concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Here, without even making proposals, to present itself in today's session and to practice criticism, it is not quite understandable for me, especially if you say a lot about youth unemployment and the youth labour market, but obviously ignore the fact that there is the "Jobs4Youth" programme. The Federal Chancellor has cut it: Ten thousand young people will be integrated into this programme once again this year, and if there are enlargements, we will discuss it. There has been the successful initiative of the Youth Training Insurance Act for years, where every young person who is looking for an apprenticeship in Austria but does not receive one, at least the course place is offered. – All of this is available, and I ask you, Mrs Glawischnig, to take note of it! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment on what has been presented by the Social Democratic opposition today, at least on some of these points that accompany this request. If, for example, it is a question of taking full advantage of transitional periods for the labour market, I must say: One can discuss this – the two- and three- plus two-year transitional period for the admission of workers from the new EU Member States – which is also highly personally negotiated by the Federal Chancellor – but at the same time also say that a leading exponent of social democracy wants something else. The mayor of Vienna, Häupl, said about a month ago in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten), anyone who has legal residence in Austria should also be allowed to work here. This would mean an erasure of this seven-year transitional period from today to tomorrow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Dr. Gusenbauer, you don't believe that? The quote is authentic, Mr. Dr. Häupl said so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you formulate in your application that the municipal tax may be reduced from 3 to 2 per cent, the basis should be widened here, please also say about how the counter-financing for Austria's communities looks! 700 million € Less funding for the municipalities are these! The head of the localities of Austria has already made a very critical statement. So whoever makes such proposals should also talk about counter-financing, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A third point: They rightly address the need for a focus on active labour market policy, as more should be done, but then you also say that it was this federal government that has been the means for the active labour market policy since 1999 and has more than doubled the activating labour market policy from € 760 million to €1.5 billion this year and, lastly, more than €1.5 billion. Say that, then it's credible! Let us also say that if the head of the social partners on the trade union side is already right here, but not everything says that, for example, we have agreed with the social partners in the field of the AMS to increase the placement capacity by no less than 350 employees or by plus 15 percent! Say that the Blum initiative, plus 400 € for each additional apprentice from 1. This year, also supported by the social partners in the AMS sector! So far, dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Whoever is practicing summit criticism, may also say what has been decided and adopted on Monday this week with leading social democrats in the country and what has, for example, been put forward by the Greens on concrete proposals here today! – The comparison makes me sure, ladies and gentlemen,! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Finally, Mr President, because that is what Mr Van der Bellen has said about the need for growth. Growth we need, growth we need like a bite of bread, but let me finalize: Good thing that we live in a country where there is enough growth, for 100 daily jobs created in Austria – not by us, but by the economy – look at Germany, there are 1 000 jobs lost every day! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again]] – This is also a comparison that makes us safe again!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6632	Next, Mr Magistrate. Johann Moseran's speaker. His speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6657	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seeher at home, hopefully belong You are not one of those 250 000 unemployed people who have expected something from this Monday package, because your situation will not be improved by this mogel pack! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do I come to this conclusion? – Because this current economic programme is not confirmed by any economist to be taken seriously in its impact. Call us an economist who will confirm these 20,000 jobs, which you, Federal Chancellor, have spoken about here! These figures are not comprehensible, they are taken out of the air, and the effect is unclear. Mr. Federal Chancellor, do you really believe that with this package you can generate 3 billion extra investments? Do you even know how much that is? – This is an eighth of the total equipment investment of the Austrian economy in one year. And you want to trigger that in a year and a half that is available to you? You have to make this clear to us once! [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Mitterlehner, who obviously has deeper insights into the economic contexts, has said that no one knows how to approach these new fundings. How's that going? That's an important point. And all of us who have or have run a business themselves know that there is no single entrepreneur who will invest if there is no demand if there is no market. That is why we Socialists are so strong at introducing the negative tax. You just need to take a test. If you make 500 € available to a trader who has to raise two children alone, what will she do with this money? [[Abg. May. Molterer: How much do they have? I don't have that much in my pocket!]] – It will immediately put this money into consumption, it will give it to the economy. [[Abg. Neudeck: In the “consumer” she can’t do anything anymore!]] But if I make this €500 available to Minister Bartenstein, what will he do? – He may buy shares, he will not boost the economy. This is actually the point why the Austrian economy is paralysing the Austrian economy. There is no demand, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister Bartenstein, you are a successful entrepreneur, and I ask you here: [[Abg. Neudeck: That was typical: from the left into the right pocket!]] How much will you invest in your Styrian company in the next one and a half years? How many new employees will become On the basis of this presented package in your company? Tell the truth, you have the opportunity! Tell the Austrians, tell the honourable Member what you really mean about this package, how much it will work. Mr Minister, I think you are a good entrepreneur, but as Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour you have failed. If you look at the rate of unemployment growth in Europe, you will see that Austria is second within the EU. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not well informed!]] – Look Please contact the EUROSTAT data, Mr. Molterer, you are at your disposal! Only Luxembourg has a higher rate of increase in the unemployment rate. Tyrol, Vorarlberg and Styria, our federal state, are particularly affected. [[Abg. Zweytick: What about Vienna, colleague?]] Let's stay in the Styria! You have already sold this employment and regional programme. ==References== In July, you presented 290 million to the public with Mrs Landeshuptmann in Spielberg. Are these € 290 million you sold and signed on Monday? Is the Styria 580 million now, or is it the 290 million? That's why I'm saying that's a mogel pack! Of course, it is only € 290 million that comes to the Styria! [[Call the ÖVP: “Only”!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] So you can cite these examples. Mr. Federal Chancellor, one year ago you promised from this bank that the VA Tech sale will be made to an Austrian owner and that the VA Tech Group will not break down. What's after a year? – After a year, the Group was sold, sold cheaply, and the demolition started. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: If you have something against Siemens, then say that!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Mr. Federal Minister! Sign up for a word!]] Hundreds of workers in Styria, in Weiz, tremble about their job. That's your credibility, Federal Chancellor! If you also challenge these examples, I would ask you to look at your own request, i.e. those of the ÖVP colleagues. They ask you, they ask you almost to move on quickly, to passed laws, to growth and so on. They don't trust you? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, this is an important point: Support You're asking us today! These are the measures that Mr Gusenbauer has already mentioned. This leads to more prosperity for the Austrians, then it goes upward with Austria. Support us!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6806	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6828	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! What we have not heard under guarantee today are constructive, creative proposals by the opposition parties that have convened this special meeting today, but what we are very likely to hear here today is a creative and effective package of measures that the Federal Chancellor – thanks many times, Federal Chancellor! – and the members of the Federal Government have strapped for the unemployed in this country. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] – By the way, my Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ: together with your people, with your national leaders, whom you permanently distrust in your speeches. And I think that this zigzag and disunity of SPÖ might be a little help for voters in Austria and the countries in the next election decisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would very much like to comment on a few specific points in the labour market policy of recent years and also on the measures and, in particular, on women. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (showing on the clock) Is that all right?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In concrete terms, support for women has been an important priority and has played an important role in all labour market policies by the AMS. Even if you do not want to do so, women are very successful. Women are above-averagely involved in active measures by the labour market service – and this has been happening for years, ladies and gentlemen. Although the share of unemployed women in total unemployment last year was only 42.5%, with 54.1 percent of total labour market service funds, much more women than men have been supported. Overall, the budget for women increased by 60.7 percent from 2001 to 2004. And particularly successful were these measures, ladies and gentlemen, with older women. There has already been a 10% reduction in unemployment in the last year. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly a more than point-specific measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The re-entry women, ladies and gentlemen and dear Eva Glavischnig, are also being treated here in a detailed programme. There is an individual care plan for each new entrant, where measures are developed and discussed with each other, depending on the situation of the problem. And part-time jobs are also required by the AMS, and that is something the women themselves want. Another measure of the AMS is the involvement of the labour market service in measures to improve the compatibility of family and work, as we know that this is particularly important for women's greater professional activity. I would like to take a look at the red-ruled Vienna, at the social pattern city, as the SPÖ always wants to lead us in front of us, and always tries to make it credible, which, however, is very, very bad. Because in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, a job-seeking mother who wants to reorient himself and would also be financed by the AMS has no right to a kindergarten because she is not working. But the problem is that she can only visit the course with a kindergarten. Obviously, there's one hand that doesn't know what the other one is doing. I am just saying: super efficient, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At first, one has the impression that the SPÖ in Vienna is still unable to create a positive atmosphere for the Vienna economic location and for business settlements. Just a few examples of what it is like when the SPÖ carries out so-called economic and labour market policy, where it is really good reason to worry, as we are currently experiencing not only in Vienna, but also in the Burgenland, where the Causa Bank Burgenland, as I mean, will still show some of the hard-wearing information, such as the whole thing has gone. There is also a record of self-employed employees throughout Austria this year. In Vienna, the level of employment has now fallen below that of 1965. Also a “success” – under the lead marks – of the SPÖ city government, which rules in Vienna alone. The debt in Vienna also continues to rise. According to old SPÖ Kreisky manner, this is obviously a patent recipe, but it does not work at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] At the federal level, one can say in good German, we are still shivering today on these debts that have been built over time. Last year alone, the interest rate in Vienna amounted to € 40.9 million. And to say to Gusenbauer: The Viennans remain on the track, because these debts, which the SPÖ builds up in Vienna, must be taken into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that the SPÖ in Vienna can also be highly recommended for training by the head of state Pühringer, because it shows how it is done properly, as we do at the federal level.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6915	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6937	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Bartenstein, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, I followed the debate very closely and was a little surprised – I would like to respond – that both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor said that they had hoped for more positive and more praiseworthy statements on the Federal Government's economic policy. Of course, we also have a certain claim, but ultimately Parliament is also here to look at the government critically. I think you are missing as a Member of Parliament if you only act as a lobbyer at the speaker's desk. A Member of Parliament must also be allowed to say something critical, and I would like to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also not right that the work package presented today is a ‘mogel pack’. – These expressions are certainly wrong. However, on Sunday before the summit on 9 August 2005, the Austrian learnt already knew what is happening – namely, the expressions “subsidisation”, “entitlements”, “kredite” and “preferential effects” – and he also regretted on Sunday that one will not come, namely the announcement of structural measures and improved framework conditions for the economy, in particular – to which I wish to focus today – for the Small and medium-sized enterprises and freelances, who are obviously still the stepchildren of government policy. I can use it for myself that during my active activity as a member of my government, I have also often thought more support for small and medium-sized enterprises and freelances – albeit in vain – has been given. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is also regrettable and critical to note that all of this takes place against the background of a large merger – T-Mobile and tele.ring. We must not allow sand to be scattered into the eyes, because this merger will threaten jobs and destroy them. Indeed, the purchaser will certainly not have to make investments which would have been tele-ring, and this will endanger jobs and also harm SMEs to a significant extent. tele.ring was a low-cost provider. The downfall of this company will therefore also be difficult for consumers. Now we come to the core: Now a head of state – the one from Lower Austria – or a country, or weakens the only competitor, namely A1, in addition to a tax, by means of the mobile mast tax, and that at the most unfavourable time. Not only does A1 not come into question as a transferor of tele.ring – if you already say globalisation must be – but A1 and other market participants are of course also required to raise the tariffs due to the additional burden on the mobile phone mast tax. This again harms consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. – You must also note this critically! I would particularly like to mention the following because it has not been said today, not even to say: Then to the Vice-Chancellor or the Freedom Team – the BZÖ team, I apologize! – Keeping that they did not prevent the mobile mast tax is unfair, because it could have been prevented only through the party-political rail of the ÖVP, and that did not happen. I really have to say that, because otherwise things are not in the lot. Now on the problem of unloved SMEs and freelances. I would remind the Minister of Economic Affairs and, in particular, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that there are 252,000 enterprises that can be referred to as SMEs, the market economy is taken as a basis for assessment. – This is 99.6 percent of all companies, which employ 65 percent of all employees, invest 18 billion € – 58 percent of all turnover – and bring 70 percent of VAT and 80 percent of income taxes. Nevertheless, they will be by the public hand – by you! – originally and also in the present ill treated again. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – From you too, you can read this, source: SME Research Austria. They're being treated badly. Compared with the first half of 2004, contracts to SMEs were awarded by public authorities by 20 percent in comparison with the first half of 2005. I do not think that is fair, and I mean – this is my positive contribution – that we should be more concerned about SMEs. It is really not pleasant to have to say this, but this large group, which creates more economic growth than the large industry you are promoting, should at least be seen. Freelancers are also “unknown beings. ” There are 60 000 enterprises run by freelances, which brings 300 000 jobs. In the 2003 tax reform, the government template, unlike the ministerial draft, expressly removed the favour for all entrepreneurial income in respect of freelancers. That was and is not fair, because this large group has it deserves to find competitive and competitive conditions. Finally, an up-to-date example, because you always say that you are so flexible: ÖBB would like to set up a shopping centre open 24 hours a day in its stations; Nordbahnhof 6 000 m2, Wien Mitte 30 000 m2 and so on: a wonderful idea in the sense of the inventor, as I mean! SMEs would undoubtedly benefit from this as tenants and tenants. Who's against it? – The Vienna Chamber of Commerce and the Vienna Financial City Council! So please not only preach water, but also drink water when it gets serious! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7036	The next speaker was Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7057	Madam President. High house! Dear colleague Marek, you have accused us of opposition, we do not make constructive, creative proposals, and have praised the good program of the government. I just wonder why, after every employment summit that took place in Austria, there has been even more unemployed people if these points are so good for the government! – They do not do that, and you should be quite clear here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to go into practice and really look at the problem with the magnifying glass, starting from the polytechnic school in Feldkirch as an example: There are 160 students. Last school year, twelve of them visited the “Trade and Office” division. These are very few anyway, because many see that they do not have a good chance in this area. Imagine, of these twelve pupils, two have found a teaching place this year, and this, although already during the entire school year, has been very supportively looking for apprenticeships – two students of twelve! At this school, a quarter of the 160 students already finish the tenth school year. That is to say, there is a huge proportion of hidden youth unemployment, because these young people are not going to school for a tenth of a year, because it is so great, but because they do not find a job. This hidden youth unemployment is also found in all those areas where young people have no right to unemployment benefits, which are shy or concerned about reporting unemployed. That is, de facto, we are dealing with a far higher youth unemployment rate than appears here on paper. – You have to say that quite clearly. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On paper there are 12,000 young people looking for an apprenticeship, and 26 000 younger people aged 20 to 24 who do not have work. Federal Chancellor Schüssel! You said before – and I quote you literally – the circumstances are “not pink”, but not as bad as they are presented. Is that the answer I should give to these young people when they ask where they find a job, how they get to work? I do not think that can be an answer to the current state of affairs. In my opinion, I believe that It is still a certain denial of reality. They are based on any EU statistics, but do not see that there are individuals and individuals behind them, and they do not benefit from any EU statistics at all. The work, a job and a future perspective. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's clear to me that we don't have everything in our hands. There are factors that we can influence less well, but a factor that we could very well influence is education policy. If I assume that Mr Commercialrat Blum writes in his papers that 18 percent, as he calls it, are practitioners with low schooling skills, i.e. young people who are de facto not able to accept a teaching post, and I compare this group with the 20 percent of young people from the PISA study who are unable to read meaningfully, and if I assume further that in a FESSEL survey 65 percent of Austrian companies have declared that the “quality” of school leavers has very little – “quality” I would like to put under quotation marks – that is, that they are more dissatisfied, then the answer must be quite clear: We must invest in education! The AMS can never recover what has been lost in the field of education with post-schooling courses afterwards. There are shortcomings in the individual promotion of pupils, the classes are too large, and there is a very obvious lack of care places. – That is exactly where differences, disadvantages and deficits could be offset, but nothing is done, the government is asleep. This is one of the biggest accusations you have to make. Unfortunately, this also goes into the university area where the money is not enough in the back and front, because what you have given more has actually fallen victim to the so-called autonomy. The universities also pay more. The growth of the future is clearly in knowledge – not in the construction of new roads or in other investments. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] There it is important to invest! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7152	We will now come to the last round of speakers. I can say that for the ÖVP 5 minutes of remaining speaking time, for the SPÖ there were also 5 minutes, for the Liberal Group 6 minutes and for the Greens 5 minutes. The next item is Mr Matznetter. As I said, five minutes of speaking time. This is the total time off, and I will therefore look very closely at the clock. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7179	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor is gone again. – I start with the comments made by Mr Marek and I would like to say that the time is short: You should be careful when you go to Vienna and look at the data! Vienna, when drawing on the total number of insured workers, has been growing from 884 717 to 897 943 since 2000 – but without farmers, they do not play a major role in Vienna. [[Abg. Zweytick: They don't matter to you at all!]] One more thing, Mrs Marek: For a year, namely since August 2004, unemployment has fallen in Vienna, whereas elsewhere it has risen. [[On-going calls at the ÖVP.]] Mr Lopatka should look at the Styria before he is excited about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor is not here, only Mr. Vice-Chancellor. This is the Lord who “sees all things clearer” than the Lord's bowl. [[The speaker holds a newspaper article with his image and the same headline.]] I do not quite know why you have difficulty reading statistics, Mr Vice-Chancellor. You're wrong: They have previously quoted the Lausanne IMD Institute as regards the economic location, and this institute has already published the new current statistics, which we have all been able to read in the June “trend” economic magazine, and according to these statistics, Austria is of the 13th century. ==References== ==References====External links== ==References== It's moving forward. – So much to your self-congratulations that you make as a government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I know it is not true that you are not taking care of any other job that may not have one in the near future. I don't want you to think that you're just taking care of your own, but you should at least, if you represent the situation that is true in mind. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Come on!]] Let us look at the rate of inflation. – The vice chancellor had bad luck, because I picked out the “trend” because I knew they had the new IMD data. – From one place in 1999 with the lowest inflation rate, Austria is on the 13th. EU statistics state that the place has fallen back. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] What is it like in employment, in the field of new jobs? – According to EU statistics, Austria was expected to have new jobs in the field of employment growth in 1999 at the level of 15, based on EU-25. It's not famous, but do you know where we are now? - 23rd place! [[Na-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] That makes us the third last. – So much for your performance in employment growth. On this occasion, I will take the next table in the ‘trend’: In the field of real wage increases, we are in the same period from 11. ==References== Place fell back and in public investment from 19th to the last place. [[Abg. Zweytick: You should also say something to the unemployment rate!]] [[New call at the SPÖ.]] – Quite honestly: There can only be an unemployment problem! Nothing good can come out of this policy! [[Abg. Neudeck: You have problems with the statistics!]] I say quite frankly, ladies and gentlemen: If you had followed the SPÖ's requests in this House – and I'm about to come to the tax reform – then the world would look different! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Mitterlehner rightly pointed out the position of the Chamber of Commerce that an investment-promoting measure would have been useful. President Leitel's concrete proposal is to reintroduce a modified increase in the investment premium. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Right!]] He's right! We should not have abolished investment promotion, and I must say: We voted against it! – So: They shouldn't have removed them! Then Austrian companies would invest in the country instead of investing elsewhere by means of group taxation – large corporations. We would like to have the investment with us, and in this sense I say: The Chamber of Commerce is right. But on this occasion I would also like to mention the following, because, so far, the government party has been very sorry about the opposition proposals: In April 2002 we as SPÖ introduced the growth premium as a “new investment exemption” in this House as a request, and this request excludes exactly the abuse that the board now does not want in the new application. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Was this the Matznetter economic programme, the SPÖ's economic programme?]] We are making serious proposals, correct proposals. Our proposals would have worked too. That's why we were on track for 30 years. We had a GDP per capita, which we were in the second place in the European Union, and we were very close to Luxembourg in unemployment. Now we have fallen back to fifth place at the unemployment rate – and this is done on the back of hundreds of thousands of people affected by the fate of unemployment. With this outcome of your policy, you should start to follow Dr. Gusenbauer's request: Listen, decide with each other, reach common solutions. Listen to the social partners! Listen to the opposition! At least listen to your own Members! The honourable Member, Mr Böhmdorfer, has plundered from school and said how it really is: He wanted to achieve something for SMEs in the government, but, as he told us, he did not find a hearing – just as everyone else unfortunately did. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Harm for Austria! I'm sorry for the unemployed. One day it'll be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7341	Next item is the report by Mr Lopatka. Member of the European Parliament, 5 minutes of remaining speaking time for your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7368	Mr. Party Chairman Gusenbauer, I have not yet begun to speak, and you are already giving me encouraging words here. I'm glad. [[Call at the SPÖ:Now it will be deep again!]] Mr Matznetter, as a relatively young financier of SPÖ, you have looked really old today. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He was brilliant!]] Then: What happened to you today? – On the one hand, you have read statistics here... [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Let me talk, please. Madam President, this is difficult with the SPÖ. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Actually, I haven't said anything yet, and they're afraid they're just making more noise. The fear must be relatively great with you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to say: If you only demand what is good and expensive, then the ancient socialist policy and really nothing forward-looking! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] More has not yet come from you, Mr Matznetter. They fit exactly into the picture of the previous speaker of the SPÖ, namely Mr Moser, who said: Only € 290 million for the Styria! I would like to say to you: At the expense of third parties, you are not too expensive, we already know, but the third are the taxpayers. We must protect them from you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. That's it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have financial alternatives from you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, not yet heard here today. We have not seen and found the red-green golden donkey, which is stretching and where we only have to wait for the money to come out, but we would need it, if only we would like to implement what you have presented here today. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You want more unemployed! That's your policy!]] That is a good thing, and I am glad that this meeting has gone as we have seen it here: here is very serious the Federal Government, which clearly puts on the table what can be financed so that we do not fall back into the old socialist debt policy, and since you, with demands that are good and expensive, but unfortunately cannot be financed, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Eurofighter!]] I can read exactly every Sunday what Mr Darabos, Mr Bures, and Mr Gusenbauer say when he is not on vacation. The latter was gone for a long time now. For a long time, the bad word of the SPÖ has not come from him for Sunday. I heard that from you today, Thursday. But I'm not worried, next Sunday it'll be heard again. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] That is why I say to you: What has been commanded by you today is relatively little. I'd say, It is too little if one claims to be governmental, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. It's too little for that! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Since you mentioned Vienna and the Styria in comparison: Let's stick to the facts! [[Abg. Steibl: The Steiermark is much better!]] You're right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] - No, it won't be deep. I'll stick to the facts! [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] I know you're afraid when Mayor Häupl comes back from vacation, because with what you've offered here today, he won't be satisfied, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP as well as congratulations on the liberals.]] You'll see, he'll be very hard to give you praise. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] But that's nothing new to you. He'll tell you what he thinks. On Monday, Rieder has already said to Häupl that he is very satisfied with what has been presented by the government. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Her colleague in Salzburg also saw this positively, only she turned the spear around and meant that she was actually the one who had led the whole thing in the way. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The unemployment rate in Vienna is 9 per cent, far above the Federal average. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: She's gone back!]] Thank God there was no further increase! I'm glad about it. It would be better, of course, if the level of unemployment in Vienna were slightly lower. Unemployment in the Burgenland is also significantly higher than the Federal average. Under the average of the federal government, unemployment is in Styria under the leadership of the head of state Waltraud Klasnic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is, of course, a consequence of the policy being made there in the country, because the basis for the creation of jobs – ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, you did not want to know for a long time – is economic growth, and the Styria had by far the highest economic growth of all the federal states last year at 3.8 percent. [[Abg. Silhavy: Herberstein!]] The final lights were Vienna and Burgenland with 0.6 and 0.5 percent. The comparison makes sure, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7600	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. The total period of residence for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7621	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, you said - to the unemployed - that they would be better off. Obviously you meant that it would be better for them if social-democratic policies were to come to the fore again. I would like to tell you the following. There was unemployment in 1996/1997, which was about as high as it is now. There were 230 000 unemployed people at the time, at an employment level of 3 million. Now there are 210 000 unemployed, but there are 3.3 million people employed. So that means: The unemployed and even the people in Austria are already doing better, who do not have to expect SPÖ at future times! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] At that time, when unemployment was very high, a representative of the Social Democratic Party at a special meeting here referred to the labour market summit: It's a cheap dirt! . This is about dealing with this issue, Mrs Silhavy, because today you have accused the Federal Chancellor that he would not deal with it seriously enough. This is a cheap shame, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka said by the Socialist Party, when a special meeting on this issue was convened. I do not wish to blame you for this special session being a cheap shame, Mrs Silhavy, although, of course, we know very well that you want to beat political little money with a special session. [[Abg. Silhavy:... referred to as “Mickey Mouse Theme”!]] You know very well that you cannot solve labour market problems with a special meeting, that there is no patent recipe there. [[Abg. Silhavy: You only need to agree to our request!]] You also know very well that proposals that are good have already been implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Mrs Glavischnig, Mrs Mandak said: After each summit there is more unemployed! – Well, that is why the situation is changing over and over again, ladies and gentlemen, but not because politics is bad. You also know very well that the situation in Europe as a whole is a very different one with regard to the labour market sector as far as economic growth is concerned. In this context, I would like to refer to the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” (Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung), a very interesting article from 1996, which reads the following: ‘In the complex structure of... In recent decades, the economy has come together a lot, which is now making its mark on the labour market.” The major problems of outsourcing, the opening up of the East, the Single Market in Europe, the development of trade blocks, the whole of world trade policy in the last three or four years, the rise of the Asian countries also with quality products. You can't ignore that! It must also be considered that Austria is not isolated! The violation of your policy is not that you are applying for a special meeting, the objection is that you represent the problems as if they were just a national problem in Austria, an isolated problem and as if Austria could make a labour market policy that is independent of the whole of Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In your urgent request, you accuse the government of facing unemployment as before a natural disaster. – That’s not true at all! Measures have been taken, only: Unlike you, no one from the government parties is happy that there are now many unemployed people in Austria. On the contrary: We work together to reduce the unemployment rate! [[Abg. Dr. One: Five years of forgiveness!]] Mr President, you said you were afraid and there was no hope. – Well, you should actually know that Austria is on a good path, that in these difficult years Austria has made a good claim in the past. First of all, we had to consolidate the budget. As to your statement in the urgent request, the low unemployment rates were based on the fact that the government had found a good starting point, I must tell you: You have a huge memory gap! Do you no longer know that Austria has been threatened by Brussels to get the “blue letter” if the budget deficit is not consolidated?- Oh, my God! You seem to have forgotten that. – The starting point that this government has found was disastrous! [[Abg. Silhavy: What does this have to do with the unemployed?]] The deficit, ladies and gentlemen, was so high that the "blue letter" was threatened from Brussels. Remember that! [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, you did not use the time of economic upturn, from 1998 to 2000, to secure jobs to consolidate the budget. You have to make this accusation! Now I would like to read to you a statement from your then social spokesperson, Mrs Hostasch, from 1996 when there was a situation similar to that at present. I quote: "It would be irresponsible or not to develop a crisis scenario and a global downturn mood here and to produce what is negative for the economy as well: Pessimism! The economy also needs optimism, and optimism is also part of the success!" That was what Mrs Hostasch said at the time. Take an example of that! We also need this optimism, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ – instead of uncertainty and disillusionment from your side. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, there are also areas that you need to look at. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] So I agree with you that you have to limit the number of seasonal kidneys. That has always been our demand. And here I ask Mr Bartenstein to draw up a programme with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7759	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. Time left: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7780	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to take a preliminary decision, but, Mrs Partik-Pablé, this school-beating self-infatuation in the sense of: We have done all we can to ensure that no one in this country believes no longer in view of rising unemployment rates! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Other countries also have problems with unemployment, even with higher unemployment, which is partly true, but there are also countries that have succeeded in reducing unemployment, but Austria has not been part of it for five years. In Austria, unemployment has been increasing steadily for five years, and this is largely domesticated, Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I can tell you what would be necessary. If the courses of the AMS, for example for qualification, are getting shorter and shorter, then the quality decreases. While the quantity increases, more people can be sent to courses, the quality decreases if the funds remain the same. We need more quality at the AMS courses. [[Congratulation of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] What do you say to a 35-year-old secretary who has become unemployed and who is then offered by the AMS either a course computer driver's license, a forklifter's course or a sweater's course? That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Is that really all that can be done for this woman? No, that can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We need more resources for the AMS and also more rights for the unemployed, who often know much better than you believe what they do well for qualification and what they do not. They can say that by themselves. Why, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about rising unemployment, for example, is the word pension reform not taken into consideration? Of course, we know that all the steps of the pension reform have been taken since 2000, and I have been doing so since 1997 to increase unemployment, easily but noticeably. Now, of course, there is a way to respond. You can see that the older ones stay in employment for longer – you have done that – but then there are the effects for the boys. They won't find a job. And one, ladies and gentlemen, I must say to you: The figures that have been mentioned regarding the unemployment of young people have nothing to do with reality, but really nothing to do with it! My colleague, Mr Mandak, has already mentioned this to you. There is the problem of young people who stay in school for a year, making a tenth school year because they have no job prospects. I myself have talked to young people who have been trying to find a teaching centre for one or two years, who have had very concrete ideas about what they want to do. Not always just vehicle mechanic or hairdresser who had concrete ideas. After one up to two years of age, they are so frustrated that they would actually be satisfied with everything they could get on the labour market if they only got something. Yes, it cannot be that this is the only perspective for these young people! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! And what do you say to those who, for example, – and this is going to become more and more, only do you not find them in an unemployment statistics – have a higher school, a university, and then, as physicians, for example, have to wait two or three years for a gym? Is that something we can take note of? Does it make sense for skills acquired to rest two or three years until there is a job? And that's where you say: We did everything! – It can't have been, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Growth. Yes, growth is necessary, but let's look at growth in concrete terms. It's not just what you're putting on, the growth in profits. This alone will not be able to ensure economic and job creation. What we are currently experiencing is that large and well-floring national and international companies in Austria do not even pay a cent or a Euro corporation tax. It can't have been – and that won't secure the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7892	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 689/A (E) tabled by Mr Dr. Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on the “disasteral labour market situation in Austria”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Silhavy: What is now?]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Now you had the chance! Missing chance again!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neugebauer, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on measures taken by the Federal Government for growth and employment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This application does not create a job!]] (E 132.) [[16:45:13]] Short debate on the response to the question 2993/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7967	We now come to a brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture, 2993/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker speaking for reasons of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I would ask Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8006	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer, I know you were not pleased that we would like to discuss this question and therefore also the situation of the Austrian universities here in the High House in summer. I mean, however, it was useful that you were here this day too and listened to the debate on the labour market, because education policy essentially decides on the unemployment of tomorrow. And this is something that, as I mean, the ÖVP should listen very well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That's not where we need the Glavischnig to do it!]] That's right! Since this court ruling of the European Court of Justice, many people in Austria have expected that in some way there will be consequences for taking the opportunity to do something on the issues of access to universities, facilities and qualification criteria when studying, adapting to international standards et cetera. You, Mrs. Gehrer, have essentially pursued a head-in-the-sand policy, a bird-street policy and clearly put yourself on the point that this judgment is somehow given god, so to speak, a natural law. You are now making access restrictions, and that is what the rectors are supposed to do – and done! By the way, your opinion should be as follows: The rectors are guilty, and no one should be concerned that parents are concerned because their daughter/her son wants to study medicine! Consider this question alone Obviously, it's an expression! – That was your policy for the last few weeks and days, Mrs. Gehrer. I do not think that is enough, and I also believe that the confidence placed by the people in you as Minister of Education has decreased dramatically. They have minus 13 percent in the so-called trust index, because in the field of education policy and universities, one simply expects more than one minister to say: That's it, and by the way, we're going to the agenda! – That's just not enough, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is already a time when we need to talk about the last five years of education policy as a whole. You, Mrs Bundesminister, said: Right-wing education policy, left-wing education policy, but you represent ‘education policy for people’. - I wonder what that means. The only thing that we are interested in in this context is education data in international comparison, data that can be obtained, which shows that we are not losing the link to other OECD countries, which show where there is a need for recovery and something is being done about it. – And these numbers are basically terrifying. Our demand to expand the number of places of study from 200 000 to 300 000 is not something that we are currently applying to this ECJ judgment, but that is something that has been necessary for years to make at least a start on the need to catch up on the international level in the field of universities. I don't know if you know the numbers, at least they're terrifying, and it's numbers you know about in any of them. How to react: Academics-Quote in Austria: 14 percent, OECD average: 23 percent. You really can't say that everything is done. What happens to the care relationship: In Austria, there is a teacher in 20 students, 15 students come to a teacher in the OECD section, and in Germany there are only 12 students. As far as the university entrance rate is concerned – this is also a very, very relevant number, namely, how many of the Maturants actually go to a university – Austria is one of the final lights at all. In Austria, only three of ten Maturants go to one university. In countries such as Finland, Iceland, Sweden or Australia, there are seven out of ten Maturants who go to a university; in the OECD section it is at least half. That is, with us only every third Maturant/any third Maturant is studying; in the OECD section each/every other. I wonder what consequences You draw from these numbers, except in any way: The rectors are to blame. I don't care about it. – You don’t have any consequences at all, and even such debates as those over €170 million only to maintain emergency operations at universities are simply getting rid of the table without seriously addressing it in any form! In any other country, such data, such a balance sheet, such a situation at universities would actually be a matter of chief concern, actually for a German chancellor and actually the Causa would be fine to care about. In Austria, it is something where a minister struggles to deal with it at all, and says: I'm making education policy for people. - Whatever that means. Mrs Minister, we expect you – many in Austria expect this from you – to finally give up this blockade policy in the field of universities, that you will finally use this stand-by: We have done everything, it's all right!, stop and deal with how to finally guarantee the Austrian universities, the Austrian students an international connection. We are very likely for more internationality at the universities. We have nothing to do with additional German students, but I still wonder what you actually did in this ECJ process from 1999 to 2005. I don't know anything at all. It is not known to us that in any form you have dealt seriously with this decision that has prepared or in any appropriate way responded to it. So under the rule, Mrs Minister, your balance sheet in the university field is not only disillusioning, but actually depressing, and I wonder how long you want to continue this. 60 million are too much, 170 million are too much. If you compare this with other figures in the budget, for example, with the investment increase premium, where we have now heard that it was € 850 million that companies received without any recognizable economic effect or growth impulse, and if you listen to it on the other hand, € 170 million are totally impossible, there is simply no single cent for universities, then I don't understand, and I believe that many parents, many students in Austria can't understand that either. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Many fear that this ECJ judgment will now be used to avoid the free access to higher education in Austria as a whole in the medium term. In the AHS area, it is already thought of. Together with the AHS section and the eight Numerus-Clausus studies from Germany, it is almost half of the students who have to expect access restrictions. And what you have also put in the room is that by the next year, i.e. until the end of 2006, no additional cent will be invested in education. At this point, I would also like to say that it is very, very badly proven to decide on a budget already in February, in March of the previous year, because one cannot react to important developments and to such decisions in any way, and you also take the view that it can no longer be tied up. So you have no flexibility at all on extremely important issues, especially in the field of education and the labour market. Once again our most important request, Mrs Minister, and I would like to hear one argument against it. I would like to hear what is actually against increasing the number of places of study where we have been after years. In addition to France, Austria is the only country where we have as many places as in 1995, where the number of students is no longer increasing. I wonder, Why Refuse So you're actually making more places to study available? This is not a requirement that is now exclusively linked to the ECJ judgment, but rather something that Austria has needed for years to ensure that the connection is not lost internationally. Why is that such a problem? I would like an answer. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We would also like to have an answer to the question of quality, in particular with regard to the student relationship. Why is it not possible to adapt that to the OECD section at least, perhaps even to a German cut? Why is it not possible to adapt the Austrian university budget in any way to an international value, such as OECD cut? Finally, the question: What have you actually done since 1999 as Minister of Education? What have you done to dispel the ECJ judgment in any way? What to Remember You are actually telling these people who will be lying in front of the universities in autumn, in September with sleeping bags and with ISO mats, who are running and waiting and hoping they might get a study place? What's going to be You're telling these people?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8070	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, Mrs Gehrer is now speaking. – Mrs. Federal Minister, do you want me to give you the 10 minutes? [[Federal Minister Gehrer: Yes!]] Yeah, I'd love to. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8101	Madam President. High house! Mrs Glavischnig, I do not know how you know I am not pleased. I didn't say anything at all. I have not at all spoken out on your request for urgent advice, but I am happy to answer it. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Please!]] I would also like to answer your questions. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can see how much you like to do this!]] I would first like to address some of the allegations you have made. We didn't put the head in the sand. We have sent the arguments to Strasbourg in the ECJ judgment, and we have conducted the negotiations very intensively. We have prepared ourselves very well for the ECJ judgment in this form. The rectors' conference held a survey, and the rectors' conference has drawn up proposals. We have brought the University Law into Parliament with caution, and we have already adopted the necessary measures on the day following the ECJ judgment. I don't know, I think that sometimes there must be a communication interruption in the opposition groups, because we have conducted intensive discussions with your university staff, also with the speaker in charge of this field in the SPÖ. A claim catalogue with five demands has been drawn up from you, but you may limit the measure to two years, you may want to evaluate it, you may put together data material. We have all formulated these demands together, we have fulfilled them together, but unfortunately there has not been a joint decision, because the SPÖ Member has informed me that he will go with me if the Greens go along, and the Greens have informed me that they will go with them when their green students come along. The fact that the green students don't go along is actually obvious. So you've been looking for a base to avoid responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It has been deprived of the responsibility to give universities in the eight Numerus-Clausus subjects the possibility of an admission procedure, a qualitative procedure or the possibility of entry semesters. We have not been deprived of responsibility. But we have also resisted your desire to make central prescriptions. We have defined clear policy objectives: Eight Numerus-Clausus subjects – there are 170 subjects of study, 162 subjects have not changed at all – and in these eight Numerus-Clausus subjects we have set clear political signals: The universities can either make a qualitative admission procedure or an entry semester limited to two years. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that's what the universities need: that they are not left in the rain, but take responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I never blamed the rectors, I never said the rectors can make it out of themselves. But we take autonomy seriously, we take it seriously that we make political targets, provide political frameworks and give individual educational institutions the greatest possible degree of freedom and independence within these political frameworks. Ladies and gentlemen, on your statement, so that the emergency operation at the universities can be maintained or financed at all, it takes 170 million €, I note the following [[Abg. Broukal: Quote Skalitzky!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Rector Skalitzky, not us!]] The universities have a secure budget. Our universities have a better budget than the universities in Germany. Nothing has been deleted from them, on the contrary. They have received € 144 million for infrastructure to secure the secure budget, and these € 170 million are a number discussed at the rectors' conference in the Budget 2007 working group. This question, as the 2007 budget, 2008, 2009, is currently being discussed with the Minister of Finance, and you, ladies and gentlemen, can rely on us to ensure that universities have a sufficient budget to negotiate this budget seriously, and you can also rely that universities can make a best offer with this budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It has been said by the Greens again and again – including you, Mrs Glawischnig – that they want to see internationally possible numbers. This is the only thing you want, not the best possible training in the country, the most intensive training in the country, the most modern training possible in the country. If you look at the numbers we have in international comparison, then we have internationally recognizable numbers! We have a deficit in some areas, but I never said: Everything is palleti, we have nothing more to do. Thank God I still have a lot to do in the next few years! If you look at “Education at a Glance”, you can see the following: In Austria there are 13.7 students, in the OECD section there are 16.4, so on average we are better! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have also greatly increased the initial number of students. As far as your statement is concerned that too few young people in the tertiary field receive training, I think you have overlooked the fact that we have re-educated the colleges: in ten years from zero to 25 000 students! Huge funds have been invested there! According to my knowledge, the University of Applied Sciences is part of the tertiary field, so among the 210 000 students at the universities, there are also the university students. We have the Educational Academies – with 5,000 students – which will soon be universities. We have the many academies in the health sector, which are also part of the tertiary area. We have made enormous progress in the tertiary field, the budget has increased, we are securing the best education for our youth. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to a number of differences that are very dear to my heart. Yes, I say it quite openly: The parents can rely on us not to force her to give her children to school all day. I won't do that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Who demanded this?]] But the parents can also rely on us to increase the number of day care places in schools as needed. There will be more 20 000 places within two years, 52 million € will be made available in the 2006 budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The parents can rely on us to maintain the differentiated offers that we do not make an overall school that we promote the children, the young people according to their abilities, their competences and their facilities. I would like to point out that I have requested the introduction of the professional maturity test so that the young people who do not go to a secondary school also have the chance to come to the matura. This is an excellent way of making use of many young people, an excellent opportunity for those who make a teaching to receive further education. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not allow any more performance. We want to promote those who are particularly good, and we want to promote those who are particularly weak. That is why we will reorganise the funding hours in a school package II in autumn. I believe that the political differences are taking place in education policy. We've moved so much. We have redesigned the school, we have redesigned the universities, we have developed the technical universities, and the people in Austria can rely on us to continue this positive policy, this good education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8241	Now we come to the next word. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that 5 minutes of speaking time is available per speaker and speaker. Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8265	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The bringer of the debate has said that fewer stands would be necessary, in which I agree with her. But I ask her to read their own broadcasts. The Federal Minister has already pointed out: If the future budget needs are discussed and this is put into a context with a so-called emergency operation and with emergency measures, this reminds a little: You call the fire brigade, even if it doesn't burn, and if it really burns, it doesn't come because it doesn't want to be deceived again. I find this to be a negligent way of dealing with the language and with the opinions hidden behind it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I mean, we should come to the facts. I agree that education policy is labour market policy. But as for the example of Van der Bellen – he talked about a Rudi – I mean that this is also a failure of school policy. School policy must be considered in the individual countries, and the question must be answered whether the AMS courses are an answer for Rudi. At present, they are not. Therefore, the respective national policy in the AMS is to be seen, and it is to be seen which coaching program needs to be supported by Rudi. I would also like to make a few corrections which relate to the broadcasts of colleagues. Mr Broukal, it is not the case that the head of the rector would have complained that in connection with the ECJ judgment it would have been wrong to act, but he has addressed the call to us – to you and to everyone else – spokespersons not to abandon the university. The government parties have acted, and the opposition parties have abandoned the universities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This has been stressed by the head of the rectors recently in the “ZiB 3”. Ladies and gentlemen! On academic rates and rates: Amazingly, 24 out of 25 countries in Europe have access regulations and access regulations have a higher academic rate. Therefore, the careful action that Austria's universities are now familiar with cannot be all wrong. I would like to make another point which would of course require some kind of qualitative work on the figures. Austria's secondary education is at least half based on direct entry into work: BHS, HTL or HAK are not primarily based on university studies. Other countries have primarily set up their upper secondary level in higher education. That means: Why should I bend a goal of a school and change it so much and motivate those leaving so far that they should strive for something different than they wanted? Nevertheless – and the figures give Austria the right to continue to increase the academic rate. The government takes itself seriously, and the fact that 3 percent of the research rate is directly linked to increasing the academic rate. [[Abg. Broukal: The proportion of research has nothing to do with it!]] Absolutely! Because I will not only have loud little employees in the research company, but I will need academics. So here the government was the first instance to say: We're going to increase the academic rate. The grouped number of 300,000 refers to a judgment of the head of the rector – Winckler at the time – who had spoken of a 20-year programme. I think, ladies and gentlemen, with the successful continuation of government policy, we will also achieve this goal – not centrally economic and not planned! I would also like to remind you that, for example, the real figures that are supposed to be happening today – to the development of the number of students, Mrs Glawischnig – show a very, very encouraging balance. With 2004, we achieved the very high value of 32 120 students, which means an increase of 10 percent for beginners compared to the last ten years. For students as a whole, we have achieved an increase to 210 000, as Mrs Minister has already said, in the technical colleges a doubling of graduates since 1995, since the time of introduction. That is, in reality, we can talk about a success rate among students: Their number has increased by 78 percent in recent years. If there is talk of a negative development of the number of students and graduates, then, I think, it needs help in mathematics, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Then she also needs the OECD, the re-help in mathematics!]] No: to read differently! To interpret quality and read differentiatedly! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... you have to explain it!]] We have, of course, prepared ourselves for this ECJ judgment. The best proof, Mr. Broukal, is that the Medical University of Graz says: Yes, we've been expecting this for a long time, we've had contact and prepared for virtual lectures. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Professor Smolle is the best example. So the universities have not been surprised and have not been abandoned, at least not by the government, but have learned to arrange themselves with the judgment, with the option of developing this and finding even better solutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8346	Next, Mr Broukal. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8368	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome Mrs Brinek's last words; she said: The universities have learned to arrange themselves with these new conditions. – Well, the pictures from the show “€co” came to my head a week ago, where I see young students camping on cardboard cardboard boxes in front of the rectorate of the Medical University of Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Those were Germans there! At “€co” were loud German...!]] I am thinking of young people in Tyrol, where 87 percent of German candidates are registered for medical studies and only the rest of about 20 percent are Austrians. These are then all approved in autumn on the basis of an assessment of their letter of motivation or not. Mrs. Education scientist Dr. Brinek! What does education science tell us about the objective assessment of letter of motivation? – That, depending on who judges them, there is a one or a five! That's what the universities have been preparing for? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The other countries also have...!]] That's the result of the preparation? And this is the responsibility that this minister takes over for it? – Motivation letters are examined, which must be presented in the year of Mr. 2005! Or? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In Graz there are again 1 000 people who are interested in 100 places of study. 1 000 people interested in 100 places of study – what objective assessment will there be? There are 900 too stupid for medical school, and only 100 good enough? Or: There 700, which are suitable, are rejected because They did not ensure that enough places were available in Graz. That's the whole truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And then you come – because you suggest to other people that they learn mathematics – with this argument: We have 170 studies, 162 of which have no access limit, so only 4 percent have one. But, Mrs. Colleague, in the area of these 4 percent, 30 percent of students are studying! – Welcome to the next PISA basic course! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's wrong!]] Because you're putting all these numbers around here: Two weeks ago I asked Mrs Bleckmann for a debate by the Scientific Committee on this morning, to which I would have liked to invite the Minister of Education, the Minister of Finance, the Head of the Rectors and the Head of Finance of the Rectors, so that we would have been able to clarify all that you are fighting again objectively in an hourly debate. If Mrs Bleckmann has informed me correctly – and I do not doubt – it was you from the ÖVP who rejected this debate! Although the Minister of Finance was here today, although the Minister of Education is here today and had not spoken against talking about these things in the Scientific Committee, you have rejected it. They don't want to talk about these things at all! They do not want to hear from Gantner and Badelt face-to-face that they really lack the money that you also lack in the institute every day. Just come. You always go down here and pretend to be all right with the university. That must not be true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In any case, I refuse to believe that people like Rectors Badelt and the rectors of the University of Innsbruck from Jux and Tollery and against better knowledge claim to have too little money for research, teaching and administration. I'll take it seriously! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You've been enlightened!]] And if I am properly informed, Mrs Colleague, even the Ministry of Education has for a few months been of the opinion that this request of the rectors is rightly raised. It's just the Minister of Finance... [[Federal Minister Gehrer: 2007!]] Yes: In 2007, says Rector Gantner, the universities need 170 million, and in 2005 and 2006, he says they need more than 100 million euros each. I read his broadcasts too. Why should I put it? Don't you agree? Why do you tell us we can't do mathematics? – It's very easy, Madame: 100 million this year, 100 million next year, 170 million in two years. We could have talked about it today if you hadn't prevented it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The public has her judgment – I am now personally sorry because you know, Mrs. Federal Minister, I can suffer very well as you as a person; I am sorry, but it must be said – about your policy already likes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The new OGM confidence index shows you the last place among all members of the government, with a 13-point crash. This is the result of your belief in the word “everything autonomous” – I don’t care, the unis remain where they are. The public doesn't take this from you – rightly!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8498	Next, Mrs Bleckmann spoke. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8520	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! High house! A proverb says: He who screams is wrong! So, my dear colleague, Mr Broukal, nice and quiet! Let's take it easy. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In order to clarify or ask questions, I would be interested in the following, Mr Broukal: Since you are active in politics and no longer as a moderator in the ORF, how has your trust index looked? – Maybe ask After all, this would certainly also be very interesting for you as a self-reflection. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Check it out, you're smarter, too. The second point: There is a debate in the Committee when there is a next Committee meeting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] A demand for all club members has shown that this is unusual on a special meeting day. [[Abg. Broukal: But not impossible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] That was the result of the discussion with all the club members, and that is already clear. [[Abg. Broukal: But not impossible!]] Well, but it must also be made clear that you – and you have experienced this more often – do not always get through with all your wishes within your club. I think that will have been such a wish again. The third point: Those who have studied certainly know this situation. When I was studying, there were no restrictions on access, but we also did not find access to the hearing rooms at the BWL study in Graz, because they were also overcrowded at the time. And what the students were most interested in – they camped and waited for overnight – were voluntary sporting events, and the students were waiting for them as well. That is why I think these are things that the students can very well expect. [[Abg. May. Worm:... for seminars!]] On the other hand, you cannot say – as you imagine – that: Hurra, we take up all the Germans who want to study with us, and we still finance and pay for it! That can't be a responsible policy, as you would wish, so it can't be! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's not how it's going. But your ministers could have been working decades ago, so that we could have 300 000 places today, as you wish. You could have become active much earlier. But you have not taken a single step in this direction! What the current government has done was to react. Whether you want it or not: Right now, at the right time, it has been responded, and there are now restrictions of access which you yourself have partially cast, in the subjects in which there is the German Numerus clausus. This is a responsible policy, and that means that we confirm the universities in their autonomy. Because that is exactly what we wanted: that universities can perceive their autonomy and that they can act responsibly. This system will be evaluated and evaluated, and then you will see – in one or two years – how it has proven itself. Then you can make an even more perfect and even better system, but first you have to look at how it works, which system is the most meaningful and the best for everyone involved. Then you can continue the way to make the best system for universities, for students and for all people. What you say on the one hand is that you want to increase academic rates; on the other hand, you regret that academic unemployment is so high. That's where the cat bites in the tail again. One must consider very well that it is important on the one hand to increase the academic rate, but this with measure and objective, so that all academics really get a job. Because that's probably the worst thing that can happen, that we academics train expensively – this is the most expensive course of training we have – and then these people do not have a job with the finished training. We must act with measure and objective and we must work responsibly, and this is what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8629	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Zinggl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8650	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! What university policy is that you are doing? – In my opinion, it is not, in any case, a far-reaching, not a basic, none that develops structures, also takes money into control and invests in the future. It is a policy that holds on to the status quo, which actually does not care at all about how it will continue in the future. Mrs. Minister, you do it just as you do in the fields of culture and education, and then suddenly some evidence and clear signs emerge that show this inconsistency more or less – and these are actually no longer symptoms, but already syndromes – such as the PISA study on education policy or the Court of Auditors report on the Art History Museum in Culture or just a month ago the ECJ judgments in the field of science, then nothing actually happens. First of all, there is inconsistency, then you promise that everything will change, then there will be insidiousness again, and then nothing happens, except that perhaps in the background some leukoplast patches will be glued. In the event of massive injuries, however, these do not benefit very much! Mrs. Minister, I can tell you: Of course, the greens are not present in such “lukoplast actions”! It's just wrong if you say that we wanted to go with the green students conforming before we agree or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I myself have been sitting all night with my colleague Green Forest: We have been discussing and considering how to agree to these measures, and we have, at the end of the day, called for nothing other than the number of Austrian students remain constant. This request, Mrs Minister, is probably not covered, but you have not met this demand, Mrs Minister, and this is very bad! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What do the maturants have today? Mr Oellinger has already suggested this: On the one hand, they have fewer and less opportunities to work, and on the other hand they have fewer and less opportunities to start studying, which they want to do. Mrs Minister, I think it is a very cynical statement from you if you recommend that students or future students simply choose a course of study which is not so overburdened. Practically recommend With this, you have a maturant who would like to study medicine, that she should write theology, and you may recommend one, although actually missing a pharmacist who wants to study it that he should do sports. In my opinion, that is not the right concept! You yourself, Mrs. Minister, said 10 or 15 minutes ago that you want to meet all the competences, skills and inclinations of young people. But this is not exactly the case with such a cynical statement! I think it's something like a learned helplessness with the maturants and maturants. This is a psychological expression of the behavior that you no longer know what to do if you do not find work or study at all. And you have increased this problem, so to speak, by first creating obstacles to study fees and now further difficulties with admission tests and access restrictions. What Mrs Glawischnig said and called for, namely that we expect you to change policy, is no longer in line with my expectation. I wish it would be a change of government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8717	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[17:24:03]] Decision to terminate the 2005 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8738	In agreement with the political groups, I would like to make the following request to the House: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary meeting of XXII in 2005. National Council legislative period at the end of the 11th century. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8770	In order to allow for the immediate completion of this decision, I read in accordance with a written request from 20 Members the relevant part of the Official Protocol so that it is deemed approved at the end of the meeting: At the request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Molterer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner, Dr. Van der Bellen, the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is invited to attend the extraordinary meeting of XXII in 2005. National Council legislative period at the end of the 11th century. to be declared terminated on August 2005’. Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The relevant part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-08-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e8810	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 689/A and 690/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3366/J to 3392/J were also raised. I wish you all a nice summer. The sitting is closed.
