ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3682	The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 120 and 121. Meeting of 21 March 1991 In September 2005, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Mrs Riener has been reported. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3713	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture Elisabeth Gehrerbewerd by Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallatrepresentation. Federal Minister for the Interior Read Prokopwerd by Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllress. [[09:06:02]] Commemorative words on the occasion of the death of Friedrich Peter
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3752	Before I begin the call for the current hour, I would like to say a few words about the death of Friedrich Peter. Friedrich Peter has been a member of the National Council for over 20 years and, as a clubman of the Free Parliament Club, has held great responsibility here in the High House for 16 years. He has made his contribution to the fact that Austria has become a country that everyone wants today from a country that nobody wanted. He has co-formed Austria's successful path. In this sense, I would like to remember his memory today. [[09:06:31]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3776	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Great nuclear expansion offensive on Austria’s borders? Paks, Mochovce, Temelín, Krško: Which initiatives does Federal Chancellor Schüssel set?" First of all, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. You know the speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3804	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning! ==References== September was a very black day for all nuclear opponents throughout Europe. For the first time in a decade in Western Europe, the construction of a nuclear power plant has begun again, namely in Finland. In September, the groundbreaking ceremony took place for a project – €3 billion; jointly designed by a German and a French consortium of companies – which could perhaps introduce a new generation, a new era of nuclear power plants in Western Europe. This Finnish power plant is also a sad occasion, because it should remind Austria in particular that we have an anti-atomic mission. There has once been the goal of creating a nuclear power-free, nuclear-free Central Europe. And there have always been committed people in Austria who are committed to doing so – and that is certainly in the interest of the Austrian population. In the 1990s, there were four new reactors at the Austrian borders. Four new reactors were planned, eventually financed, and finally finished construction. The Austrian Federal Government made serious mistakes at the time: She has always responded too late, protested much too late and offered much too little opportunities for alternatives. The result was then in 1997/98 the two reactors in Mochovce, 160 kilometres from Vienna, and in 2000 and 2001 the Temelín reactor, 130 kilometres from Linz. Now we are in a similar situation, and it threatens the same thing again: It will be done much too late or nothing at all, there may be a few notes written, but basically there are threatening plans, expansional offensives on the border, which are now in discussion, about which decisions are now being made, simply ignored or simply in a nuclear sleep. It is specifically about five reactor blocks, and if Austria makes the same mistake as at the beginning of the nineties, namely, not to respond much too late, to write only a few letters, then at the Austrian borders five new reactors are threatening: In Hungary there is a very old power plant, namely Paks, which has been running since 1983. It is 200 kilometers from the Austrian border, an old reactor, a Russian reactor without containment, i.e. without a shell. That means he's very vulnerable, very sensitive to plane crash and also completely unprotected in terrorist attacks. This power plant has been running for more than 20 years, and its operation is now to be extended by another 20 years. There is already an environmental impact assessment, and it is to be feared that an authorisation will be granted and that the nuclear risk will be further extended and doubled near the Hungarian-Austrian border. As far as Slovenia is concerned, we have a very significant situation. A new option was considered there, and there was great excitement in Austria. This is exactly the occasion to talk about, in concrete terms, how such decisions come about. Slovenia is facing the situation of additional electricity in 2014/2015 to meet domestic needs. And logically, it is now being thought about how this electricity needs to be met. Throughout Europe, a renaissance of nuclear energy is being discussed, and across Europe, the high oil price is being discussed, about the fact that fossil energy sources, especially because of price dependence, cannot create a sustainable basis for foreign dependence. And Slovenia is thinking. One option is to extend Krško and build a new reactor there. Of course, there would be other options. For example, there would be the possibility to build hydroelectric power plants together with the combination – Sava – or to work together with the combination of highly efficient gas turbines. But in order to achieve this, Austrian engagement is needed – not only in the form of small Protestant notes or letters, but also in order to make nails with heads and offer alternatives, so that our neighbouring states choose the right option in such a situation and not a new nuclear power station. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No decision has yet been made. What I observe and what I am very sad about is that there is no serious effort by the Austrian Federal Government to offer real alternatives, really a way out of this strategic case, in which Slovenia may be in 2014 at the latest. The next case is Mochovce. The French Enel has now taken over the Slovak energy group, and it is to be feared that with fresh money the reactors three and four – one and two have unfortunately been opened in 1997 and 1998 – will be built. Here, too, I wonder: What is the Austrian initiative, what are the offers here? I do not think it is necessary to protest exclusively and to end up with desperate citizens in border blockages, but something has to happen in advance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And here again, my impression is that neither by the Minister of Environment nor by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany serious alternative options are offered, ideas are developed. Instead – and I have not observed this with sadness, but with anger – the German Chancellor has interfered massively in the German election campaign, has interfered much too massively for a German chancellor of a neighbouring state politically and there supports a candidate with all repressive pressure who wants to reverse the nuclear exodus in Germany. [[Abg. Großruck: Haven't you helped Dr. Fischer too?]] This would be a fatal decision for Europe and for Austria, but unfortunately the German Chancellor was clearly more important to party-political interests here than the interests of the Austrian population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In Germany, we would have all nuclear reactors from the network in 2020 on the basis of the decision of the red-green Federal Government. This is, of course, a very dramatic way forward for the European nuclear industry as a whole. 2020 – this would mean that huge investments in new technologies and alternatives would have to be made to research into the need to continue market launch programmes and, above all, to make large investments by energy groups in new capacities that are not dangerous that do not pose nuclear risk. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In some cases, this would mean to a government of Merkel and a government participation of the FDP, which also says openly, that it wants to reverse the nuclear excretion, to extend the term extension from 32 years to 60 years. [[Abg. Murauer: What do they have for an atomic excretion scenario in Germany?]] This means multiplying the risk by 28 years, and you know – many of you have dealt very intensively with nuclear energy – that extending the term at such a high age of nuclear power plants means a massive risk and requires significant investment in security measures. It would therefore not only increase the risk dramatically, but it would also have to make appropriate investments, and this would prevent the whole renewal of the power plant towards renewable energy sources or at least delay it for decades. We were with the Slovenian ambassador last week, and there, of course, it was stated openly that the German decision will be decisive for Europe as a whole, that this decision will be a policy for Europe as a whole. As the government may look out there, an appeal: Please treat this atomic excretion carefully and do not reverse this so important soft position! Mr Umweltminister, perhaps you can answer a question. Because the German Chancellor is very likely to have time for elections in Germany, but not to discuss here in the High House threatening nuclear scenarios of our neighbouring states, I ask you whether, at all, Austria's side with Germany and the German parties who want to reverse this exit has been deposited in some form, that Austria does not want the Austrian population to definitely not want it and that it would also be a dramatic setback for the overall development in the European Union. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Not only the withdrawal of the nuclear exodus, but of course also the whole boom in the field of renewable energy – 130 000 jobs that have been created in Germany in this area – should all be important, I believe, Austria. One last: If Austria wants to be credible on this issue of the new nuclear risk at Austria's borders – new reactors – at Temelín, there may be two new ones, although the turbine still does not work and only creates 80 percent performance; the Czechs are very proud of this turbine, but nevertheless – then the new energy concept of Austria has to be challenged. There's the nucleotide inside: There must be no further two reactors in Temelín. Mochovce: two additional reactors. Packs in Hungary: Duration extension. All this at a distance of less than 100 kilometers! This is a route from Leibnitz to Bruck at the Mur, so everything very, very close, everything in the 100-kilometre risk zone. Then there is Krško at the Carinthian and the Styrian border. If you really want to fight this seriously, then it is not enough to write two or three letters, Mr Environment Minister, but then you have to do nails with heads, then you have to offer them alternatives and then we want to see results here. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Speak of “nails with heads ” and don’t know what that is! Unimaginable!]] Then there must also be a consistent anti-atomic course in the European Union and not something like Minister Gehrer's, namely the approval of a nuclear programme, in which the nuclear share is almost doubled and an incredible amount of money is put into future new reactors and research. That's inconsistent. That's not how you're gonna achieve anything!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3910	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3931	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the question of the great nuclear development offensive on Austria's borders, I also have an opinion on what you said, Mrs Glawischnig: Obviously, some consider in the discussion on fossil energy markets and rising prices in this field, but also the question of how we can get the global carbon increase, more strongly in terms of climate change policy than in the past, to re-enter the nuclear production of energy. However, this is not only a European issue, but a subject that is much more discussed in other parts of the world. There is also – and this also needs to be seen in the question of a nuclear offensive at Austria’s borders – no concrete expansion plans decided by governments along the Austrian borders. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That has always been the case, and then everything is too late!]] We should not suggest that there or there an expansion offensive would be imminent. I then deliberately go into detail on each individual project. But what is very likely to be the subject – ladies and gentlemen, that is also quite frankly said – is the question that some operators and governments are considering considering extending the term of existing power plants, and we also need a clear opinion to do so. There is, and this is mentioned earlier, no other country in the European Union, no government in Europe, which makes it so clear and clear in all formations in the European Union that it is against the expansion of nuclear power in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have other concepts, we show how, and no one in Austria needs to be accused that we do not appear very consistently and clearly on this issue, ladies and gentlemen. However, it is also clear – and this is the second one that needs to be discussed, and we have insisted on it when Austria joined the European Union in 1995 – that energy policy should be made nationally. Why? – Because at the time we also made it clear that we do not want anyone else in the European Union to decide on Austria’s energy location and energy supply in Austria. That is why we have fought to make energy policy national. In this field of tension, we have to argue and enforce ourselves with our arguments and give appropriate answers, ladies and gentlemen. What did Austria do? – We have a lot to show: We were successful in showing the alternatives. No other country has such a high percentage of hydropower in energy production! Mrs Glavischnig, I would like to say to you today that you have spoken offensively about hydropower as an alternative. - I'm with you, yes. [[Abg.: (in the direction of Green) Lambach...! What was in Lambach with the hydropower?]] We should also show how energy based on hydropower is in the future to be an export hit and to continue to put offensively on this source of energy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second point: No other country has set as much on eco-power as Austria on the question of alternatives. Germany has tried – I admit – but the attempt has unfortunately remained in its infancy. We're on a tangent that can be seen: Biomass, biogas, wind power have written a success story in Austria in recent years and months, and we come to about 7 percent of this renewable energy on the total cake of energy production. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Had it – without you!]] That's what's going to be the export hit! That makes me the third point. If you say, What answers do we give to these countries?, I should like to point out the following: I am on the way with an environmental technology offensive in the countries affected, in the neighbouring countries, to show how to achieve alternatives to nuclear power with environmental technology in energy production. - That's the point! Fourth point, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen – and I now come to speak on the individual projects –: It is clear that we are observing very closely who is doing what is going on in order to either extend the term or discuss new nuclear power projects. I would like to start with today's suspension of the Krško nuclear power plant in Slovenia. We must also show clearly and clearly why we have this debate. In fact, the Director of the operator has given consideration to the need to develop Krško accordingly. I have the same day that these considerations were made – on the same day! – to write a letter to the Minister for the Environment of Slovenia and to ask for information on how the government intends to proceed on this issue. The answer came: There is no decision on Slovenia's question of enlargement at all! – No, the Slovenian government obviously does not intend to do something. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Then she stops! That's why you should do something!]] That's the facts! And if you say, Letters write!, then you see that letter writing is doing something, namely a clear statement from the Minister for the Environment of Slovenia, that there are no concrete plans for the expansion of the Krško power plant, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Second point: Nuclear power plant Paks in Hungary. In fact, the operator and the government are considering extending the duration of the power plant. There, too, we have articulated ourselves directly and clearly and clearly, namely, that Austria must, of course, be involved in the necessary environmental impact assessment process – and we are involved. We are in close contact, and it has been clearly shown: We are taking part in the question of the EIA on the matter of Paks, Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen! If energy policy is a national matter, there is nothing left to us but to make our position clear in the international procedures to participate offensively in the EIA or Espoo Convention. On this issue, too, you assume that we are making every effort to make the most of legislative measures to be clearly heard and involved in this issue in the process of Paks as the Austrian government. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We also have a subject in Europe, which is: EURATOM Treaty and the increase in the sum. Here too, we give a clear answer: There is no other federal government in Europe, no other country, which has a position as clear and clear as Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] We do not rely on nuclear power in Austria. We do not rely on the expansion of nuclear power in Europe. We respect national law and engage with all the legal means available to us in order to stop these expansion plans. [[Abg. Eder:... Dirty!]] That's our line. You can expect this line to be clear and clear in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4056	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. 5 minutes speaking time, as well as all other speakers in the current hour. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4077	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a popular tactic among some politicians, which is called “Hold the thief!” – that is, if you have butter on your head to light up a topic quickly with another and raise a problem. [[Abg. Sburny:... at the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: This is an ÖVP tactics!]] This seems to make the Greens the principle now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Sburny: You know what you're talking about!]] There are green citizens' initiatives that are against wind energy in the Burgenland. There are green citizens' initiatives that then fought the hydropower at Lambach or are now fighting in Tyrol hydropower plants – but you are supposed to be for the alternative, for renewable energy sources. Unfortunately, the practice speaks a different language. It's a little bit like in a wrong world. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... a black citizens' initiative!]] In order to divert from these things, Mrs Glavischnig, we then inflame the supposed heat of crises abroad: Because a director of a nuclear power plant – and that was out of his position of interest – takes the concept of expanding his nuclear power plant, it makes a national disaster and a bilateral disaster. [[Abg. Oellinger: Say something about the TIWAG plan!]] The fact is, the Federal Minister mentioned it and also quoted from the letter of his colleague in Slovenia, that nothing is that there is no activity or decision in this direction on the part of the Slovenian Government. What you are doing here is actually trying to distract from your own shortcomings and build up something, also with the fear of the population – which is admittedly present on this issue – and thus to make policy. [[Abg. Sburny: You are at least master in ignoring fear!]] That's deeply objectionable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're doing another thing: They're making Austria bad all the time. – This country, damn it, didn't deserve it! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] We have the highest amount of hydropower in power generation. We have a model model of an eco electricity law that can be seen internationally, and we have launched countless anti-atomic initiatives in Europe, which have also led to successes, at least partial successes. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Electricity!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... without success!]] If we then put forward concrete initiatives here in this House, such as our last motion for a resolution not too long ago, that is, a year ago, then you do not go along, just as you did in this motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, because we don't want EURATOM!]] You should look in the mirror and think about whether what you say really corresponds to your actions. [[Abg. Sburny: Say who?]] I mean, it's not the same!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4254	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4299	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now a bit perplexed about the speech of my predecessor, but it is also a bit perplexed that the Wirtschaftsbund-General is also environmental spokesperson at the same time. This is a matter for itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But this is positive!]] Many Austrians are afraid: They are afraid of nuclear hazards, fear of accidents, fear of the safety of their children and grandchildren. [[Call the ÖVP:... Afraid!]] - That's not a fright. People are scared! That's a fact. Nobody needs to come and explain this to them. Chernobyl is a “bright example” of the dangers of nuclear power, and the people in Austria expect us as a parliament, but of course you, as Minister and Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, as well as the entire German government, to become a lawyer of these concerns and of these fears and to become the lawyer of these people. More and more of these people have the impression that you are not part of the solution, but are becoming more and more part of the problem. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Some examples. – Example Temelín: We Socialists and Socialists have just said that we think Temelín is a placebo, a sedative for the population, which will in fact have no effect on the safety of the people in Austria because it will not make Temelín safer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We think it's a nuclear power plant!]] You, the Federal Chancellor and Clubobmann Molterer, then, according to the Melker contract, announced four things to us. You said: Firstly, Temelín will become safer. Secondly, the Milker Treaty will be part of the Czech Republic's Treaty of Accession and, thirdly, will be indictable before the European Court of Justice. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: (with a far-reaching hand movement) Such ads were these!]] And fourthly, Temelín will not go into continuous operation until all these security issues are resolved and all these safety concerns are cleared and Temelín has been made safe on the Western European standard. What is left of these four points? - Nothing! The Treaty of Milk Protocols is not part of the Czech Republic's Treaty of Accession. He is therefore not open to appeal before the European Court of Justice. Temelín has not become more secure. And Temelín went into permanent operation, although there were no improvements in safety. No central point has been fulfilled. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Unfortunately, that is not true!]] Either you have spread sand into people's eyes – or you simply failed in this question completely. There are only these two variants! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Instead of protesting with people, especially in Upper Austria and Lower Austria, in the border regions, against the permanent operation, or – because a complaint under international law is possible – you are all the time complaining that there would be no permanent operation, although we are black on it by the Czech authorities, and explain to us all the time, there is no possibility of complaint, although the recognised expert on international law Dr. Rotter has only recently held back in an opinion that it is very well possible to also complain that this treaty is being respected. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But now you have just said that is not indictable! – Now I don’t know each other! You quite disagree, Mr Krainer. You're quite contradicting!]] At European level – as a second example – ÖVP MEPs voted seven times for the interests of the nuclear lobby, for an increase in nuclear credits. – I know, you always say it’s only about safety, but in this context a small education: [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] In a nuclear power plant, everything is about safety – that is, in front of the fuel rods that are inside. The only thing where this can't be said is the fire sticks in the middle – and everything around it serves safety! In reality, this is just a cheap excuse, and in fact you have made nuclear power the most subsidized form of energy in Europe, far more than renewable energy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is no panic here for what is happening in the neighbouring countries. It is good that there are no decisions by governments yet – you have also said: There's no decision yet! – but there are discussions about it. If there's a decision, it's usually too late. That is why it is now also the right time to set up initiatives, and, of course, we can and must offer something from Austria and we must not only protest. The countries that joined the European Union – Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic – all have also committed to developing their renewable energies in their accession. We also have the technology – for small hydropower, for renewable energies such as biomass or wind power – and what we should offer here is that we help to use these technologies as well. If these states, as they have assured them, are expanding renewables, they also no longer need nuclear power plants, and that would be good for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4472	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4493	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It surprises me when I look at the High House and the Free Club [[Abg. Ollinger: I think you're surprised!]] We were the only ones who said: Let us separate the vote on the accessions and say: The Czech Republic must not join if the question of Temelín is not resolved! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We are the environmental party! Tell me we're the environmental party!]] What happened in this House then? – I remember very well, Mrs Glavischnig. Your group has also said: Within Europe, we can solve these problems! – Today everything is different: They make the Federal Government responsible for nuclear policy in Europe! That's almost ridiculous. But please, this is your kind of policy to deal with it. There are 150 nuclear power plants in Europe; 25 are planned in any form. When you talk to professionals, they say, Energy policy will not be able to prevent it! [[Abg. Rest of the interaction: Why?]] - That's a fact! [[Abg. Rest-Hungry: What?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You don't need to talk about this attitude!]] It is sad that the foundation stone for this nuclear power plant has been laid in Finland, with the participation of the French and Germans. But to make the Austrian Federal Government responsible and to say that they have done too little, that is really — I have to say it again — ridiculous. This Federal Government has, above all, done the following: It has provided an early warning system, more safety! But she has not been able to do something that is true – but it has not been her job, and if it had been possible, she would have done it anyway – to prevent that. When I look at myself and ask myself: What did it bring us?, then I have to say: We are surrounded by 19 nuclear power plants that are close by – only in Italy there are no nuclear power plants near the border. Of these 19 nuclear power plants, many are old and dangerous, and we have not managed to close them. But that does not fall within the national scope either. If it is said here that alternatives should be offered, I mean: Technology would very well provide Austria, but it is impossible for Austria to solve the issue of nuclear energy or energy policy for Europe as a whole. You know that. If one asks to hold an urgent hour in this regard, and says that the Federal Government should do more then one must say to you: [[Call the Greens: A current hour!]] The Federal Government cannot do this because this Federal Government is responsible for Austria! We heard it before, Mr Karlheinz Kopf has said: The Greens are the ones who are everywhere on the road. We'll see that in Tyrol. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: These are black farmers who prevent this! This is a black citizens' initiative!]] We want hydropower, we want hydroelectric power plants. Where are the greens? - In preventing it! That's when they say they're protecting the valleys. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. ==References====External links== Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek) Are you for it or against it?]] I now come to the honourable Member. Krainer to speak: I hope, Mr Krainer, you have read the last statement from your former Minister of Finance, Androsch, who was very popular with you. What does he say? – The “Industriecapo Hannes Androsch does not speak up: ,The nuclear expansion is inevitable. Everything else means putting the head in the sand. Austria has built one of the safest nuclear cars in Zwentendorf, but never put into service – a real shield-citizens' strike!’”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: “Hahaha”!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Aha!]] [[Abg. Murauer: Look here! Who was that? Who said that?]] Mr Krainer then comes to the speaker's desk here and tries to tell everyone how it works. – He should look around in the ranks of his own party! Especially the Social Democrats are the ones who have played this game for a long time! They should therefore look around in their own ranks, and in this direction I insist: Austria has made a decision, namely the exit from nuclear energy, especially with Zwentendorf, and we are exemplary! But one thing we did not do in liberalisation either: We in Tyrol still have 27 percent nuclear power – because the electricity does not have a mesh when it comes to liberalisation. I'd say, We need to see that we get out of there! We have to see that we are expanding the hydropower, we have to see that we get alternative energy sources! – You have to support the Federal Government instead of putting yourself out here and saying that we are to blame for European nuclear policy. That's wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4694	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4731	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vorsprecher, how urgent this present hour is, have proved not least to those representatives of the ÖVP, as regards the question of why Mr Kopf should be an environmental speaker at the latest since today; and even with the Minister, the question is why this should be an environmental minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: So you won't decide, Mr Kogler!]] I say to you: In fact, it is about the role of the ÖVP in the Federal Government as regards all these shortcomings, and we will address immediately what this means, for example, in the case of Krško. Just so much ahead of you to your attitude: Obviously, the agents of the electricity industry have already been admitted to the banks of Members – everyone has seen and heard that. [[Interlocutors with representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, go, go! What's going on?]] But as far as the Federal Minister for the Environment is concerned, I can only say: A mediocrely gifted disguise artist! This has nothing more to do with “Umweltministerium” what you have delivered here today and in recent times! Respectful is the line of the Schüssel government one of Mr Bartenstein's ministers. It is no coincidence that Mr. Schüssel is supporting the nuclear lobbyists in Germany in the election campaign and is weakening here. That's it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now you should inform people about this – or perhaps some Members in your ranks, because you are always very vulnerable to Mr Lopatka's election struggles, so that you will believe it yourself at the end of the day – so you should really explain what is going on here: what Mr Bartenstein says in the relevant Economic Committee. [[Abg. Neudeck: But this is again a predator’sg’s layer!]] There you have no appearance at all, Mr Federal Minister, there is no possibility. They are responsible for various charming offensives, explain who is capable of government and who is not – and the whole is for the Hugo, because there is a Bartenstein bowl line, and this is an Ural energy policy! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: It's getting clearer!]] In the future, they will continue to provide billions for non-renewable energy sources such as mass capacity for gas power plants and the like. That's what your development programs say. They obviously faltered the Economic Committee too, otherwise you would know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your line isn't that credible, and it's exactly about this comparison. Who has the competence of the future in an advanced energy policy? [[Call the ÖVP: The Greens don't!]] Certainly not this “retro” department, which here for my totally incomprehensible reasons constantly calls in between. You should wait for the next argument. [[Abg. Schools: Who if not him?]] The credibility of the more or less ÖVP government on this issue is also undermined by the fact that, in terms of nuclear policy, it is very likely to put actions in the sense of omissions. It is not true that you have done everything you have said, with the repertoire of your “everything business” exhausted in writing letters as we hear. But I'll tell you the following: In Slovenia, the situation may not be much different from in Austria. At the end of the day, the power plant operators will have more to say than any environmental minister. That's why the letter you quoted here doesn't calm me at all. I quote again the power plant director, and if the conditions there are the same as in Austria, he will prevail much faster than the environmental minister there. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Good morning, Austria!]] Nothing is impossible now. It's about expanding further blocks in Krško, and if your only reaction is to snorkel that the border bars bend, I have to say: That's too little! I'm also concerned about what's going on in Krško. It is not only about whether a new block is being built and driven up, but it is also about the fact that the current block is already on an earthquake line. The Styrian ÖVP has conducted an advertising campaign for years, but not anymore. The Greens have not been supported. We went to Slovenia, even put ourselves in front of the power plant. I like it now. They are talking about such a thing, but that could also be the action of a dedicated Member. They took control of tax money, launched an ad campaign, twice with the head of state Haider – at that time still a wonderful axis, one remembers: Black and Blue, Steiermark-Kärnten – and have thrown the taxpayers' money out to the window to apply for activities that did not take place. That's your whole concept! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is what we experience right into the Federal Government. The whole thing has an original Styrian manuscript, even though Mr. Lopatka now wants to practice somewhere in hiding. In Styria, the 380 kV line also gives the reference to the unbelief in your nuclear policy. This makes Austria a nuclear hub in Europe. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] It's not a Styria line, because it's not needed there. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] The Styria line isn't used as such, which is already there. They operate nuclear power transit at taxpayer's costs, and now they're depriving...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4909	Is that your final point, Mr Deputies? [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] The next speaker is Mr Hornek. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4942	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, I will try to bring light into the dark of the green energy policy. I am very grateful to your party for having chosen this topic for the current hour, because this offers the opportunity to discuss an important topic of the present, namely energy policy, and the central issue of the future. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Mandak]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: How do you like the nuclear course of your sister party in Germany? Tell me!]] – Mrs Glawischnig, I will still devote time to you. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has to be quite clear to us: Energy has many faces. On the one hand, large cities radiating, almost unlimited mobility, but on the other hand also burning oil fields such as Iraq and a destroyed nuclear power plant like Chernobyl. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Say something about Mrs. Merkel's nuclear course!]] I don't know anyone in this house who works for nuclear power. On the contrary! Austria is the country that has clearly represented a clear line in this context, it has locked up a nuclear power plant, although it has been built, and is also going on a clear and consistent path on this issue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This Federal Government is particularly demonstrating that it is taking the issue of “renewable energy” seriously. Almost overnight, within two years, a percentage of 7 percent was reached in the eco electricity sector. 7 percent within two years! This is a relatively short period of time when you talk about decades elsewhere in the energetic field. Ladies and gentlemen! It was invested massively in renewable energies: for solid biomass, an increase of 54 megawatts to 309 megawatts, with biogas from 12 megawatts to 70 megawatts, with wind power – now already! – from 140 megawatts to 865 megawatts. That can be seen. The Germans can work hard there, Mr Kogler. - For one thing. On the other hand, this Federal Government has taken a big step to compensate for fuels to make us more independent of fuels from abroad and specifically from oil. I should like to remind you that in this House it was decided that from 1st century onwards. From 1 October 2005 to 2.5 percent of the total fuel from renewable energy sources will come, from 1 October 2005. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Are you talking a little bit about the border-near nuclear power stations?]] In the near future, more energy will come from the fields of the farmers in Austria than from the Austrian oil fields. We should be aware of this. But I also urge you to think about whether it makes sense that in Austria we still use diesel fuel in coloured form only for banal heating, if we are concerned about how to shape the future. If you have read the Government Convention carefully, you will have found an interesting place there that deals with modern technology for the future. Austria is already the world's market leader in environmental technologies and will become even more important in this area. There is a point in the Government Convention that calls for gasification, which will make it possible in the future to transport biogenic fuels in a reasonable manner, namely through natural gas pipelines and in many other forms. They'll no longer just be called gas pipelines. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a common challenge here. Whoever is in the energy policy against everything is unfortunate for nothing! Mrs Glawischnig, it is not enough to run around a nuclear power plant with a plastic hat that is generally called a protective helmet. I have to tell you: He's not good at you, he's much better for colleague Max Walch. [[Abg. May. Lap: Haha!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What is this? If you want to insult me, you can do it differently!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in the future we will have to take the energy issue much more seriously and deal with it much more intensively, but in a credible form. Here one is measured by the actions and not by the words.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5047	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5068	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to use this present hour, especially as a Member of the Mühlviertel, the border region with the Czech Republic, to deal with the situation of the Temelín nuclear power plant and, in particular, with the contents of the milk process, the Melker agreement between the Austrians and the Czechs responsible. However, I would also like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to thank the activists, especially in the Mühlviertel and the Waldviertel, who have shown great commitment to the fight against nuclear power for many years in the fight against the Temelín nuclear power plant. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] I ask you to continue to fight, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to thank three very large organisations in our region: the Committee on the Austrian Anti-Atom Movement, the platform against nuclear hazards and the mothers against nuclear hazards. Ladies and gentlemen: a very warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: And at Landeshuptmann Pühringer! He forgot!]] My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The Melker agreement tried to achieve security improvements by German Chancellor Schüssel and Minister Pröll. Communication directives have been adopted. A final report on Temelín has been established. Minister! They said a few weeks ago: The Milk Agreement is unique! – It’s right, it’s really unique how the milking process failed. I emphasize: The milking process, ladies and gentlemen, has failed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Minister! They said – and that is to be read –: We don't know about any nuclear power plant as much as Temelín does! - That's right! We now know that there were 80 incidents in this nuclear power plant. They also said: We are very well and quickly informed! – Mr Minister, this is wrong! The population in our region, in the Mühlviertel, is very sparse and very often very late informed about these incidents. Mr Minister, you said as the fourth central point: We have an excellent dialogue with the responsible authorities and with the operator of Temelín! - That can be right. But the climate of conversation is not always crucial. The result is decisive, and the result, Minister, is that Temelín is in permanent operation. Mr Krainer has already mentioned this. You have disputed this in the committee a few months ago, Mr Minister, although I have now notified you here, namely the decision of the State Nuclear Safety Authority in the Czech Republic, which shows that the Temelín nuclear power plant has been operating since 11. October 2004 is in permanent operation – unfortunately in continuous operation. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this Federal Government, Chancellor Schüssel and Minister Pröll have failed to negotiate legal sanctions in the milking process in such a way that they are also indictable in the post-war. Unfortunately, the government has slept this point. Also in the Protocol of Accession with the Czech Republic, Mr. Federal Minister, you have refused to anchor the contents of the Melker Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! The population in the Mühlviertel, the population on the border with the Czech Republic is uncertain. The population is afraid; I think the population is rightly afraid – as already mentioned – because there are now 80 incidents. Mr Pröll, on the question of the final report: Where's the final report? Do you have the final report? What does this final report say? What does he have? – Mr Minister, I think you are probably pushing this final report forward because otherwise you would have to admit to the public that Temelín is as uncertain as ever. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I call on those in charge of the government, in particular the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to take advantage of time again during the EU Presidency of the Council of Austria to act against the nuclear lobby across Europe and thus to force the exit from nuclear energy across Europe. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5141	Now, Mr. Deputies is coming. Walch to speak. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5172	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Nuclear power plants are one of the most dangerous power plants, because when anything happens, radioactive rays come into the environment. You've seen this in Chernobyl. Unfortunately, there are politicians and nuclear power plants in other countries who are still trying to build new nuclear power plants – as in this case, the Temelín AKW. I would like to say to Mr Schopf: I can support much of what he has said here, but I cannot support the way his party acts in the case of the Temelín nuclear power station. I remember: When the construction of the Temelín nuclear power station began in 1983, the SPÖ set up the head of government, and there was silence in the forest for years or almost decades when this nuclear power station was built. They have protested so “loud” that they have not even heard it in the Czech Republic. What's particularly annoying about me: We here in Parliament have a Czech-Austrian friendship group. In the spring of this year we met with the Czech colleagues in Weitra. There we – Mr Moser was there – discussed the Temelín AKW, the Beneš decrees and much more. I think it was also very useful to talk to the Czech colleagues there and ask: How do you imagine that? What is being done? What are the requirements of the Austrian politicians? I have to say it was a very interesting conversation. – Of course no one is responsible, no one is responsible! But interesting is the following: Mr Schopf stands out and criticises himself here. But, who, do you think, wasn't at this meeting? - The SPÖ! Neither was Mr Schopf, for he was something more important than to be used there for the Austrian population or for the government, so that everything and at any time – if you have the opportunity – would be taken to stand up against this power plant. As far as Temelín is concerned, I would also like to describe the following – something that is unfortunately painful –: I was very often – I think almost 100 times – at the border with Wolowitz. There were many protests or border blockades. There was once also a MP, Rudolf Anschober, and he said more often at the border: If I had something to talk about, I'll tell you, it would look different! He said he had good contacts with the Czech Republic, because this nuclear power station would be shut down. Now this Rudolf Anschober has something to talk about, he is the Environment Councillor in Upper Austria. [[Call to the Greens: Thank God!]] I hear nothing from him in this connection! Silence in the forest! [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser keeps written documents up to date.]] – Moment, on paper you can write a lot, but there has been nothing moving there on this question to this day. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's interesting: If you run opposition, you can make big words, but if you bear responsibility, then few acts are present! I really have to say, The Austrian Federal Government has made an effort. As Mr Wittauer said: In this House, we liberals were the only ones to vote against the enlargement of the European Union by the Czech Republic in representation of the entire parliamentary club. That's us, the only ones here! I haven't seen anything from the Greens, and I haven't seen anything from the Social Democrats either. I would really ask that in the future this issue of nuclear power stations... This energy is very dangerous. I don't think there's anyone here in the house who says: Such a power plant is to be built, because if something happens later or later, thousands of people are threatening to die. We must do everything we can to ensure that no new nuclear power plants are built and the old scrap power plants are motified.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5218	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5239	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you for putting up, Mr Walch: Mr. Landesrat Anschober has commissioned an opinion on whether the outcome of the Melker process is indictable, and this opinion is available here. But the Minister does not complain. We'll watch this now. In the next few weeks, these talks will end. Then we will see – you can also have this in copy by me, Minister – what you will do with this process. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Previously, Mr Krainer said that it is not indictable!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the Greens get in government responsibility, then something really happens, then really something goes on! [[Abg. Großruck: How in Germany!]] I would now like to have another look at the issue of risk technology, nuclear energy. The risk of a super-GAU taking place in Europe is 16 percent. This means an analysis in the “German Risk Study on Nuclear Power Plants” commissioned in 2002. 150 nuclear power plants are in operation in Europe. This risk of 16 percent is roughly comparable to that of throwing a six at once. The government is dealing with this risk, however, in such a way that it is in favour of additional €3.1 billion of the EU budget being put into technology fusion. How do you understand that? Who can understand? – This not only concerns nuclear fusion, but also concerns new nuclear reactors. Second point: Nuclear power is essential for energy supply. Why is that so? – If that is the case, why are we putting €3.1 billion in this technology on the basis of Mrs Gehrer’s signature again, although she covers only 2.3 percent of the world’s energy consumption? [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong! It's wrong!]] If we were to put this sum into the research of renewable energy sources, we would be anywhere else today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nuclear energy is an incredible waste producer. We leave our heirs and our children a mountain of problems that we do not know today how to solve. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We don't have nuclear power plants!]] We have no nuclear power, Minister, that's right. But Switzerland is planning a final camp in Benken, which is in eastern Switzerland near the Austrian border. In other words, we have to deal directly with this problem of warehouses, and we cannot close our eyes before that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are alternatives to nuclear energy, you know that very well. We could generate 100 percent of the energy from sun, wind, water and biomass. The selected red-green government of Germany has calculated that by 2050 the entire German energy supply with renewable energies can be realized. [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] But you are pleased that your sister party is now promoting the exit from the nuclear exodus! How are we supposed to understand that? – You say one thing in Austria, and in Germany you preach the other, namely that nuclear energy is very good. How do you understand that? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Apart from that, you intend to change the Ecostrom Act in such a way that it will be the death penalty for this law. We still only have a share of a third of the eco electricity, which is increasing annually in consumption. So this isn't a success story, even though you want to let us know. Finally, I come to something very important to me: Nuclear energy poses a permanent safety risk, not only because of nuclear bombs, but also because nuclear reactors are not really safe. There was the following story at ISA 1: One has thought about building huge iron stands with huge nets so that an aircraft can be intercepted. But one has gone away from it. What is the final conclusion of wisdom? – The fog system has been built and will ignite the nuclear power plant if any danger threatens. The pilot association can only shake its head over so much intellect. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Jürgen Trittin!]] This is not a security policy! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Nuclear energy promotes the spread of nuclear weapons and is a high-security risk. One last question to you, Minister: There is a petition in Europe to collect 1 million signatures so that the exit scenarios are finally negotiated by the EU Commission. Have you signed this petition yet? – If not, I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5368	That was really the final point, Mrs Colleague! You talked for 6 minutes! No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[10:03:58]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5392	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5561	Deputies Mag. Before entering the agenda, Lap, colleagues, asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed motion 699/A (E) tabled at the same time by Mr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues on the disclosure of contracts concerning the procurement of fighter aircraft. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 3165/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5585	I would also like to say that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a short debate on the reply to Question No 3165/J by Dr Josef Cap, Member of Parliament, concerning the audit of the Museum of Art History by the Federal Minister for Finance. In view of the fact that a urgent request has been requested for today's sitting, this brief debate will be held after the debate on the urgent request. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5609	I would also like to say that the Members of Parliament have requested that the Committee on Internal Affairs report on the application 685/A concerning a federal law amending the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Settlement and Residence Act and the Foreign Employment Act be limited to 18. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this sitting, i.e. in the late evening. In addition, the Members of Parliament have requested that the Family Committee report on the Government Template concerning a Federal Act establishing the Federal Law on the establishment of the Family & Profession Management GmbH, and that the Family Compensation Act be amended in 1967 (1070 of the Supplements), a period of time until 18. ==References== This request for a deadline will also be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations, i.e. late evening. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5640	The debate on points 1 to 4, 5 to 7, 8 to 10, 11 and 12, 13 to 16, 19 to 21, 24 and 25, 26 and 27 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. We are now going into the agenda so decided. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5664	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block period of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 175 minutes, Free Parliament Club 120 minutes and Green 130 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debates during the period from 10.10 to 12.57 o'clock, which were transmitted live by the ORF: for the debate on Agenda items 1 and 2, on the issue of flood-offering and reconstruction law, from around 10.10 a.m. to 11.30 a.m., first one word for each group with 6 minutes, then one member of the government with 8 minutes, then one word for each political group with 5 minutes and, subsequently, a member of the government with 6 minutes, and finally one word for each political group with 4 minutes. The debate on this issue will then be interrupted informally, but at 11.30 a.m. at the latest. For the debate on Agenda items 3 and 4, theme block “Employee Promotion Act and Income Tax Act”, from 11.30 a.m. to 12.57 p.m., the following speaking time agreement will be made: firstly, one speech message per group of 8 minutes, then one government member with 10 minutes, then one word per group with 5 minutes, one government member with 8 minutes, and finally one word per group of 4 minutes. From 12.57 p.m. on, the joint debate on all four issues will continue in the normal order in accordance with § 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. The speaking time of the last speakers of the above-mentioned blocks will at least be distributed evenly to the speakers of the political groups, and actual corrections will not be invoked until after 12.57 p.m. The House decides on this Rules of Procedure, which, admittedly, is very complex. Whoever joins this proposal of the President-in-Office of the Council, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. – Mr. Pointner agrees, that is new, but he has a tie today; that is progress. [[in the direction of a club worker]] [[10:10:00]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1065, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which provides for a flood-offering and reconstruction of the Law 2005 – HWG 2005 will be passed, the Civil Fund Act 1996, the Federal Finance Act 2005, the Federal Finance Act 2006, the Environmental Promotion Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the Fees Act 1957 and the Inheritance and Donation Tax Act 1955 will be amended and special measures to be laid down for victims of natural disasters (1094d.B.) 2. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law granting a court exemption in connection with flood aid for 2005 (1095, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1075, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing an Employment Promotion Act (BeFG) as well as the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Labour Market Service Act, the Insolvency Tax Insurance Act, the Night Heavy Labour Act, the Service Check Act, the Youth Education Security Act and the Federal Finance Act 2006 (1093 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1066, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Travel Fees Act 1955 (1096, b.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5756	We shall now proceed to points 1 to 4 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Lopatka is the first speaker to speak. Its speaking time is decisively 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5784	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! “Whoever helps quickly helps twice, ” it is right to say. Today in summer, the Federal Government, together with the national leaders of the affected federal states, quickly and quickly helped. That is why, I believe, it is right to say a thank you for this debate at the beginning of this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On 21 and 22. August in Styria and days after that in West Austria, in Salzburg, in Vorarlberg and Tyrol, devastating storms fell. Floods, land slides and murals were the result. ==References====External links== August, the Federal Government in the Council of Ministers has adopted today the flood-offering and reconstruction law to be adopted by us. That's quick action! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] When it comes to rapid assistance and the best possible cooperation between operational organisations, voluntary helpers, the federal army and the government agencies, little Austria is a power, I would even say a great power. And that's the big difference to the real big power, to the superpower USA. We've seen the pictures of New Orleans, these were completely different pictures than with us. In reality, there has been a sense of helplessness and chaotic action. The great power of the USA was actually very small compared to Austria. Therefore, as far as the intervention organisations are concerned, as regards the voluntary commitment to the functioning of the civil society in Austria, we can tell the Austrians from this point of view that they can rely on us. 49 000 firemen and more than 1,000 men and women of the Austrian Red Cross were ready to intervene in aid within a few hours. That is why it is good for us to come to a joint decision here in the House today that we are able to present the common one before the end of the day just a few days before the elections in the country. I think that's what people expect from us. We agree with our joint decision-making. This is not a matter of course, but it shows that the government has worked well and professionally there. This assistance and solidarity are necessary, because the amount of damage, which is not yet entirely foreseeable, amounts to several 100 million €, ladies and gentlemen. – Of course, this is again a burden for our budget, and not a small burden at all. After 2002, when floods raged especially in Upper Austria and Lower Austria, other federal states are now affected, but the solidarity in Austria works. Let's go one step further: Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik has also been active at European level and has already set up initiatives so that additional funds can also come from the European side to Austria. This solidarity, which is demonstrated by the public authorities, with the support of voluntary organizations, with the support of firemen and other aid organisations, is a network that makes Austria a country that is exemplary in Europe and the world, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] These flood catastrophes have also shown that we have also solved them properly organizationally. Crisis management is in good hands with the national leaders. You've seen that again this summer. Especially in my constituency, in a small affected community in Gasen, it has again been shown that Mrs. Landesführer Waltraud Klasnic is a crisis manager with heart, who is immediately on site to help people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Don't laugh, ladies and gentlemen. There were two victims of death in gases to complain. That's nothing to laugh about! [[Abg. Bures: But your speech is laughing!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I do not want to slip into cheap polemics, I leave it to you on such a serious question. There were six deaths in Austria. This, of course, also requires a look into the future in order to do everything possible to prevent such flood disasters in the future. I'm looking at Lower Austria. A few weeks ago, Landeshauptmann Pröll announced that over the next ten to twelve years alone in Lower Austria, €470 million will be invested in expansion programmes, in technical flood protection measures. Here, too, my appeal to all: We must not take extreme positions and reject technical installations from the outset. We both need: We need, in the eco-social sense, agriculture and forestry, but also the technical flood protection measures. On the part of the Federal Government, we will do the humane thing to prevent such floods. But we will not all be able to prevent. However, if we do, we will help as we did in 2002 and this year as quickly as possible and unbureaucratically.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5859	The next speaker is Mr Faul. His speaking time is also 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5931	Mr President. My dear gentlemen on the government bank! I would like to get away from this polemic, which corresponds to the style of election of Mr Lopatka, and yet to the seriousness he referred to, and back to these critical cases in our area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it certainly is no one among us who was not affected by these natural events in America, Asia and other parts of the world that have been sent to the house as television images that have shown people who have lost their possessions and property that have lost their lives or relatives. But all the more concerned is the fact that in a country, in a country that I believe is blessed, in our country, in our country, one is faced with the effects of natural disasters, where such disasters would not have been considered possible at all. I, together with my local representative Franz Voves, have looked at the situation after this flood disaster in our communities of Gasen, Haslau and Breitnau, and have taken a picture of people whose homes were maligned. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Is that the hockey player?]] I took a picture of young people who had just built up their existence and were destroyed with a blow. I have looked at people – and this has affected me – who have lost their lives and their lives. I've seen people torn out of the middle of their lives – I'm surprised you laughed at it, Mr. Lopatka – who have been washed out of homes that they thought safe and lost their lives in the floods. What was so particularly affected was that it was a loud acquaintance. They were friends and relatives. I have also seen that this distress created an uncanny force. There was a wave of helpfulness from friends from all over Styria, from people who were willing to get there, from people who were willing to provide financial help. My special thanks – I would like to join the other thank you here – are due to the forces of the rescue, the police, but ultimately also to the members of the federal army who have performed excellent achievements in our area. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] After the first shock and the cleanup work, these people are now faced with an almost destroyed existence. They were evacuated from their homes and are now rightly wondering: How will it continue? For the first time, they find it reassuring that the Federal Government and the state government have pledged help. But how does this help really look? – At this point our criticism comes: Although we have pledges for the financing of elementary damage that threatens body and life, we have partial commitments to finance the establishment of infrastructure in our communities, as we are used to, namely, fifty-fifty with the country, but we do not have a guarantee for the 100% financing of the damage to homes, to apartments that these people have taken there. There are things to complain about: There are some ambiguities as to how we determine the level of damage and subsequent damage. There are uncertainties as to how the country of Styria and the Federation really participate. And there are also uncertainties as to how financial alternatives and charges of insurance could look. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Many people concerned must ask themselves whether they will find money again for their destroyed homes, which they have already built up with credit, Mr. Col., in order to build up their existence once again with loans. The question for me, Mr Financier, is this: Will the registration fees you have proposed be sufficient to help people who have no money to rebuild their homes? I think the help should be a little more powerful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is actually a shame, Minister of Finance, that in our rich country – one of the richest countries in Europe and the world! – has not been provided for these cases. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] It is a shame, Minister of Finance, that in your budget there are no approaches to compensate such people for a hundred percent. And it is also a shame that the budgets of the national governments, Mr Lopatka, do not provide sufficient resources for follow-up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It is in fact a shame, Mr Finanzminister – and this you might also point out to the Minister of Economic Affairs – that, unlike other countries in Europe, we have not received any insurance, that there are no solid insurances, which all Austrians are paying tax-privileged and that those who are affected by disasters have to pay off their emergency to a hundred percent. Mr. Finanzminister, by changing the law, you ensure that 100 percent of the people in Austria will be helped in the future! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] – You don’t need to touch your head. That's what people outside expect from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6013	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. His speaking time is 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6037	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Col., you have spoken of "pity". Do you know what I feel like a shame? – If one cannot abstain, especially in such a debate, which is even about a consensus matter, still want to beat party-political little money! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: That's it!]] Whether this is for Styria or something else – why is it not, Mr. Collegue, that you let it be? There are still enough other opportunities to do so today. But no, you have to try wrong facts here to make party policy! [[Abg. Gaál:... the Lopatka!]] Yes, Mr Gaál, I do not think that is all right. We do not have a country election campaign here, no matter who it is and in which direction, but we are creating God quickly – and this is a recognition addressed to the Federal Government – the prerequisites for unbureaucratic and meaningful assistance to those affected in the floodlands. That is positive, and thank God we also find a consensus in the House. That is also necessary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Faul! Of course, your suggestion is correct that we are one of the richest countries in the world. After all, that was right – otherwise, you will always be sorry for our country under the leadership of this Federal Government. Of course, we are a wealthy country and we have the responsibility and the obligation to let those who are damaged increase the necessary aid. I am very glad that, as in 2002, the opposition did not come up with all-justifiable accusations that this aid cannot be provided. I remember: At that time it was said that there was money for the catchers, but not for the flood offerings. You know that we have fully compensated the flood victims in 2002 and that no euro had yet to be spent on the catchers. That's also to your constant atrocities propaganda! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You said that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We stand by this our responsibility! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following in general, that we have experienced this in 2002 as well: Then, when the media report fully on a disaster, there is great concern, there is also a great willingness to loosen the budget, there is also the willingness to show in resolutions and in other initiatives, across all party borders, that we want to make provision for the future. But then, when the cameras are turned off – and now we are in such a phase – when the gross flood damage is over, you forget all of this again. You return to the agenda until the next disaster begins. I would also like to remind the Federal Government that the prevention of disasters is not a matter that should only be devoted to current disasters, but that there is a permanent responsibility for this. It's right, we all don't want to hear that disasters can happen. They say: Nothing will happen to us, and what happens in New Orleans is far away, and the tsunami is still gone, and Romania too is far away, all this is none of our business! We believe that! We should finally be aware that all of this is very good for us! None of us know whether the next disaster will come next week or the next day. Therefore, there must also be a permanent interest in making improvements and precautions. As you know, our disaster aid is based primarily on the help of voluntary organizations. That's good and that's right. Only: These volunteers – and, of course, I join in thanking and recognizing all those who do great things there, such as the Austrian federal army, the fire brigade, the Blue Light organizations; without these volunteers, disaster protection would not be possible – have deserved to get the appropriate support as well. [[In the case of the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as the Abg. Gaál]] We must, together with the countries, consider whether the protection of termination and the protection of insurance for these persons are sufficient. I don't want to have another discussion about how popular... – Rain [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] Take a look and see in your area that this is supported! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I do not want to go back to the discussion – Mr Oellinger, this also applies to you – where, when it comes to the term of the basic defence service or the means of budgeting to strengthen the military, the opposition means: We don't need all of this! I do not want to discuss again where it is said, as I have already heard, that there is no money to purchase additional helicopters, or the already-tagged German army helicopters of type AB 212, so that they can provide adequate protection in the case of evacuation. These are the things that we must now discuss before the next disaster breaks out so that we can have sufficient capacity! We should also discuss the fact that even in pre-election periods, the mayors should have the stand and the courage to refuse building permits for houses in endangered areas, instead of simply saying: Nothing's going to happen. If you choose me, you'll get the building permit! And then they give the mayors, even when it comes to floodland. These are the things I would like – including some of you in the churches! I don't want us to discuss, after a disaster, the way we settle people, but I want them to say quite consistently: No, it is not responsible for this area to grant a building permit! Of course, we also support the fact that disaster aid is to be seen internationally. But we should not only do this in the form of international agreements, but also live and seriously practice these cooperations with our neighbouring countries. There should be consensus that disasters are a common task for the State community, but that disasters in our neighbouring countries must also be dealt with with with with with with with with with our aid. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a good measure now, but we must see disaster prevention as a permanent responsibility, not only to the Federal Government, but also to the entire public hand and also to the private organizations in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6159	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6182	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Quick, unbureaucratic help – that’s no question! Thanks and recognition to the helpers and the helpers – of course! In 2002, we heard many of the arguments put forward here today. One of these I would like to repeat, namely: At that time, the subject of the discussion was to give the helpers an auxiliary care. At the time it was thought that people who volunteer, who help voluntarily, such as helpers of firearm and the Red Cross, people who privately use their time, their working time, actually their holiday time to help and support a karenz time. That was one of the big demands at the time – Red Cross, fire brigade! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Unfortunately, this has not been realized to this day. Why, I don't know. I think that this would be a measure to recognise the great willingness of the population in any way on the part of the State. Fast, unbureaucratic help – of course! We too will agree. I would like to remind you at this point in 2002: At that time, we Greens called for urgent thought and called for a paradigm change, especially in river construction and flood protection. Disasters are not automatic disasters. Weather extremities are not automatic Disasters for the affected population, but they become such through local circumstances. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Floods are not avoidable – however, the catastrophic effects to a certain extent already. Other countries, which were also confronted with huge floods and disasters in their area in 2002 and which had to be completed, have learned from them very well after 2002. They have, for example, begun a paradigm change in river construction policy. I would like to mention a few examples of this. There are very large reconstruction projects in Germany and Holland. On the Elbe there are now reconstruction projects with more than 600 hectares of additional flood room; also in Hungary and France. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We have too! We have more in Austria!]] Mr. Ex-Umweltminister Molterer, in Austria, was only mentioned – at the time you were Environment Minister – but it was not implemented under the rule. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We have much more in Austria!]] On the contrary! In river cultivation one has become even harder, even more brutal, according to the motto: Nature is to blame! And now she's being pushed back. In recent years, river construction policy has been more brutal than before. There is no paradigm change and no rethinking! The floods are becoming increasingly frequent: 1991, 1997, 1999, 2002, 2005. It is necessary to show a whole new philosophy, and it is also logical to give place to the river basins, to the rivers in the upper rivers, to create conservation rooms and not, as in the fifties, to contain thousands of acres of land, to paralyze, to dry, to dry moor. We lose 16 hectares of soil and soil per day – and this is part of today's day – that is forever sealed, which is lost as an uptake area for water forever. And that's the basic problem! Unfortunately, no rethinking has taken place in the environmental department – not even under the Minister for the Environment and Agriculture Pröll – in this respect, not least. That's sad. If it's called here: Quick help is double help!, then we say: Foresight long-term is real help! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are a few projects, that is, small projects. I remember: I sat with you at the black and green discussions, and we wanted the money provided for flood protection buildings to be opened for environmental flood protection, so to speak. You said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I can still remember that very well. [[Abg. Scheibner: This will not fail!]] It is still being handled in such a way that the money for regeneration projects must come from the nature reserve and the entire large volume range, the large funds still flow into the hard flood protection and the hard installation of rivers. That's just wrong! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Go to Tirol and explain that there!]] Mr Umweltminister, of course, with climate protection, i.e. with a committed pursuit of the Austrian climate protection targets, there is no way to prevent weather-extreme events in Austria. But it is a question of international solidarity. If all states consistently pursue their climate change targets and we reach the Kyoto target in the medium term and go beyond that and work on a climate strategy, we can at least reduce weather extremes and the increase of weather extremes for the future, for the next generations. There are enough studies where the increase is attributed to climate change, especially the hurricane in the Pacific, on the American coast, on the Gulf Coast, and it is made by people. And this is all the sadr than Austria is, as an environmental pioneer, in the climate balance, the final light in Europe and we are miles away from our climate change targets, although we have the awareness of it in the population, although we have the technology for it and even though we also have the financial resources for it. It's just not a priority for you. We are now 16 percent above the starting point and have not gone down 13 percent as it would have been our international commitment. Instead, I hear from the Minister of Economic Affairs and also from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany sentences and sounds that question climate protection, which question the Kyoto target, where one wants to deviate from this course, instead of consistently pursuing it. This is simply the wrong way, and I am sorry that one can no longer pledge to the affected people as a quick, unbureaucratic financial aid. The Federal Government is unable to try in the long term, in the medium term, not necessarily to do disaster events from the extreme weather – through preventive flood protection!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6277	Before I give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to welcome guests from Yemen. I warmly welcome the President of the Shoura Council of the Republic of Yemen Abdulaziz Abdulghani in Austria, who, with President Mitterer and Vice-President Haselbach, took part in the Bundesratsloge. [[General condolences.]] [[President Abdulaziz Abdulghani rose from his place and thanked for the greeting with a bowing.]] Welcome! I hope you have a good stay in our country. Good for your democracy in Yemen, too. [[President Abdulaziz Abdulghani once again rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] The next speaker is Mr Gorbach. His speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6324	Mr President. Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen. We are currently discussing many important things, including the Austrian Federal Anthem, where it is said among other things: ‘Land of mountains, land on streams’. However, it also says: “many audited Austria”. The strong and severe storms and rainfalls from 21 to 23. August was a test for this Austria, especially for its citizens, in fact, where there was much suffering. That is why, I believe, we should discuss this very seriously. Even if I run the risk of repeating this time and again: This is an issue that, as I believe, cannot be discussed Party-politically or ideologically, but it is about reducing suffering and helping people who have suffered a lot of suffering and are still experiencing it as quickly as possible, quickly and unbureaucratically. That is what the Federal Government has done! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have heard it, in the course of this storm, this disaster has also killed four people, and of course we have felt and our compassion and participation apply to the victims' families. You can't make up for lost life, you can't get back, you can only feel sorry and very quickly, as I said, intervene and help. I have tried to make an overview of material damage, but it would be the framework of this debate today to list everything here. However, I would like to give you an overview because I also have taken a very spontaneous, very quick look at myself, as have other government colleagues, such as the Minister for the Environment, but also the Minister for Finance, also the Minister for Economic Affairs, also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and others, on the spot. One has felt how many are doing well – not only government representatives, not only political representatives, but also people affected by the disaster – although members of the Federal Government can be seen in the positive sense, showing compassion and seeing where one can help to recover quickly, which quickly returns to half normality. In Tirol alone, we had a total damage of €350 million, of which private and operational damage 230 million and public damage 120 million. It was all over the streets washed away. It was a river situation on the A12. I was there on the first day and saw it: On the A 12 the water flowed like a rising river. There were really pictures that you never forget again. It was washed away by rail, and by the way it is still interrupted between Vorarlberg and Tirol until today. It was the only federal road that washed away B 316. We, namely the country of Tyrol, the country of Vorarlberg, the district captains and the competent ministers, were able to adapt a tunnel with ventilation and lighting by means of a joint, rapid and unbureaucratic measure in the short term, in order to restore the necessary connection. If not all had cooperated well, even greater damage would have been done to those concerned, especially for the economy, especially for tourism. In Vorarlberg we have damage of about 189 million €. Here, too, it has hit the high-level road network, many federal roads that have settled, also private houses, but even the infrastructure has been greatly affected. I remember a picture that I was there on the first day of the event: In a community – by the way, the neighboring community of my home community – an entire settlement with 14 houses where families lived with infants was flooded, yes, flooded away, an entire settlement with a total of 50 inhabitants who have to be relocated, who have finally lost their home if you like. At this point, I should like to thank all the volunteers, especially the private donors who jump in there. This is what I am talking about now, because I have experienced something in connection with those involved in this settlement in the last few days, which is worth mentioning here in the House. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] An elderly woman went to the Minister of Social Affairs, Uschi Haubner, and said: I saw pictures on TV yesterday of the flood disaster in Vorarlberg and I would like to hand over all my savings, € 40 000, to the people who have to be delocated there. [[Abg. Faul: That’s where the government could take an example!]] - I can do this the day after tomorrow. These are examples that make you feel better again, which make a courage to show how great the problem is and solidarity. And this is a strength of our Republic, the Austrians! Secretary-General Lopatka is certainly right to: In these matters we are a great power! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In total, we have a total damage of € 700 to 800 million with the Styria, Salzburg and Carinthia in Austria. But it is also a need for me to note that this damage would certainly be greater, if the forces were not so fast and so intense – partly around the clock – on site. I am very grateful to the forces of fire brigade and federal army, the wild and avalanche cultivation, the federal water construction, the Red Cross, the rescue of the mountains, the rescue of water, so a total of 26 000 people who have worked countless hours, day and night to help those who have suffered this suffering, and in part or most of it volunteer! These people are truly highly official in the name of the Republic of Austria to express thanks. [[We welcome the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] The Federal Government has decided very quickly and unbureaucratically to help. Today, we will decide here in Parliament on measures that have already proved successful in the case of floods in 2002: early depreciation of purchases or production costs, environmental promotion law – there will be a provision for the repair of the often heavily damaged drinking water and wastewater pipelines –, tax relief such as early depreciation of buildings and movable goods, inheritance and gift tax exemptions for the disposal of damage, the exemption of seed and delay allowances, the exemption of land acquisition tax in case of replacements, donations for the recipient will be free of income and income tax; tax exemption for the elimination of damage caused by disasters, the exemption of fees for the recovery of writings and documents. All of this is about €72 million. And we've taken good care of it, ladies and gentlemen: About €250 million is available to the federal government, and these funds are to be paid to those who are in need. However, this is only the amount of the federal government, not that of the countries and any aid organizations. I think that can be seen. I think the federal government has done its best. You have to see and acknowledge that too!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6393	Mrs Stadler is now speaking to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6414	Dear President! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House and at home! If in one day the amount of precipitation of a whole month falls, then this is a situation that no one can be prepared in any way. In the case of floods in August of this year, those responsible in all areas were put to a very hard test. It was very impressive how the Blue Light organizations, the mayors, the district heads, the state government and the Federal Government worked together. It was an exceptional situation. Overhuman things have been done. And I would like to express my deep respect, my thanks and my appreciation to all those involved. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] It was just great: No one has controlled provisions. What to do was done. Although many of the forces also had floods in their own homes, they have set for the protection and safety of the overall priorities. And the flood of floods followed a flood of solidarity from all over the country. Many workers and volunteers have spent their holidays in the floodlands. It's just that we're really working together in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it also hurts to read press reports of the opposition in a serious case: ==References====External links== September the SPÖ's Federal Managing Director criticised our Federal Minister Platter for having had too few helicopters. – The fact is that at that time these helicopters were bought against the will of the opposition. The fact is that Federal Minister Pröll and Federal Minister Platter were on site and built air bridges to those areas that were completed. In addition, just a few numbers: In 720 hours, 6 800 people and 700 tons of material were transported. I just want to hold this. If you don't believe it, I ask you to just ask the people in the disaster zone. Or: ==References====External links== August, the magnitude of the disaster would also be due to past planning errors, and rivers would have to be handled more cautiously. [[Abg. Brosz: Now just!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's right!]] [[Abg. Brosz: That's what you want to dispute?]] – Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Perhaps there were errors in drawing up the “Natura 2000” guidelines! Perhaps the WWF is not always right there and there. How else could it be that the parade project, namely the Lech in the outside of Tyrol, caused a huge flood of settlements?- Oh, my God! The Greens held x press conferences in this region. Maybe it was a planning mistake that the gravel reduction in the lech was not allowed. I don't know, but I already know one thing: It may not be that a mayor, when complying with the provisions of the 'Natura 2000' programme, risks the safety of people – or vice versa: that he must break provisions to ensure the safety of people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! People in our country have a right to ensure that their safety is the top priority. And some of them doubt that people's safety is a priority. Often and often, plants and animals are given priority. I would also like to ask the Green Members to consider this and also to consider whether or not a planning mistake has occurred. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Sorry! We're not building!]] Finally, as a Tyrolean Member, I would particularly like to thank our Federal Government and all the Members for the fact that this present compensation and reconstruction law is so present, has been completed during this short period of time and that the necessary funds have been secured for the necessary measures. They all gave confidence and hope to the people of my home country affected! And they give them the courage and the strength to rebuild. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6523	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. 5 minutes speaking time. Mr Collegue, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6545	Mr President. Expensive members of the Federal Government! High house! I am the mayor of a community from 21 to 23. August in Tyrol and in other federal states, was affected, was himself in use and had been able to experience particularly the achievements of the volunteer helpers here. That is why I would like to join from this point of view in thanking the volunteer helpers of the fire brigades, the Red Cross, many private helpers, as well as guests who have worked and worked together to help the locals to avoid the worst damage caused by the flood, but also very much thank the Austrian army. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of thanks for the forces today. But – Mr Glawischnig has already mentioned it today with the word "carenzation" – unfortunately, the importance of the volunteer disaster workers does not match in labour and service law. We should do something together to improve this. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens as well as the Abg. Scheibner.]] It is true that neither in public service nor in private service relations volunteers can obtain the necessary exemption for this service within the meaning of society. We should therefore set up a legal system to enable these volunteers to provide special leave in the event of disasters for the duration of their mission. I think they deserved it too. We Social Democrats – and I particularly – will try to ensure that we can work out a common, perhaps four-party proposal in this direction. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Crisis management – Mr Lopatka has put this word in his mouth. Today, however, we also see the shadows of a non-functioning crisis management when on the front page is in the "Tyrol daily": “Donau-chemie-uit shocks” and “1 031 pleas all over Tyrol”. [[The speaker keeps the current issue of the "Tyrol daily newspaper" up to date.]] Why do I mention this with Danube Chemistry? – Because this is directly related to this flood disaster. And unfortunately, the structurally weak communities from the end of Danube chemistry are very affected. As one notices the pleite wave, here again 63 employees feel that they are standing on the street, here 63 families are directly affected again! And how does the Director-General of Danube Chemistry say? – He feels left alone by politics. The Works Council says that “one feels ‘left by national policy’” and “it is incomprehensible that new businesses are being promoted, but existing ones are so burdened that they must be locked up.” Ladies and gentlemen! This operation I mentioned was flooded with the company's own power plant during the flood disaster in August. The resulting damage was estimated at €12 million. In the run-up, the operation had major problems already due to the energy taxes. The flood disaster now means the death toll and out for the staff, as is so dramatically announced today in the "Tyrol daily". And the above mentioned 1 031 pleas throughout Tyrol also speak volumes regarding the current economic policy of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As the helicopters were also addressed, ladies and gentlemen: The helicopters of both the Austrian federal army and private companies have shown how important helicopter transports are to the affected areas, but when you think of additional helicopter purchases, says the Minister of Finance: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen, show me what a Eurofighter can land on! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] That won't happen. We could afford this money a lot of helicopters that can help people in the event of disasters. [[Abg. Scheibner: They were against the helicopter purchase!]] You would be far more important than your Eurofighters. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6618	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6652	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Today's debate should not be the reason to discuss economic policy, but rather the need for us to deal with the laws that we are now – together! – will decide and discuss crisis management and disaster protection. And we are, I think, all of us agree that this works well in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] People lost their lives due to this storm, two women of them were out of the Styria, and no one, including today's laws, can replace this loss for the families. Many people were injured, the infrastructure of whole regions was greatly affected, families, companies were severely damaged and were in the worst physical and personal distress. The Styria was also very much affected by this, especially the damage caused by floods and murals in Weißkirchen in the Jüdenburg district and in Gasen in the Weiz district; but Graz was also affected by it. And even if all the speakers have said it in advance, it is a real opportunity today and here to express a truly great praise and great thanks to the intervention agencies and the volunteer volunteers for their commitment. A small example: On Saturday, the 20th day of gas alone. August, that is really fast and fast, 140 pioneers of the German army and around 100 volunteers in operation, along with all the many others in all of Austria. This is really a sign to me that crisis management and disaster prevention and assistance work in Austria, but also that the willingness to help others has a very high priority in Austria. I would like to thank all those who are willing to make their contribution to this. [[As a surprise to the liberals as well as to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] With regard to the demand for a fee in the form of a karenz time or free time, we will in no way refuse this discussion on the part of the liberal club – on the contrary, I believe that this is a good thing, that we also come to a joint decision on this issue, as in today's decisions, in order to express our thanks not only in words but also in deeds. I believe that this would be a common, a real signal to the intervention agencies and the voluntary helpers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we act quickly and quickly, this means, above all, acting for the time after, because the total cost is estimated at about €700 to €800 million, which means only in the Styria about € 190 million in damage. So far, there have been 4,500 requests in Styria for private damage, 77 municipalities have reported damage to the state government to the present day, so there are really many affected. Quick and rapid help means that the municipalities receive an advance from the Federal Government in agreement with the country which holds the execution. After the billing is made, the rest of the money is transferred to the land by the federal government so that the municipalities and the persons concerned can receive the remaining money quickly and quickly. That is to say, we decide today that the disaster fund will receive additional resources to be able to increase and help to a higher degree, as in 2002, but now. Secondly, there will be tax advantages that will reach into the year 2006: Enterprises and self-employed persons will be able to take advantage of the tax advantages by early depreciation. Thirdly, the Environmental Promotion Act Precautions made for the repair of the often heavily damaged drinking water and wastewater pipes. And fourthly, In the replacement of lost documents, the Federal Government waives fees, and all grants to flood victims are also exempt from the inheritance and gift tax. These are – in addition to others – four important points that we decide today. I think it is good and important that Austria is in solidarity and that we help quickly and quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6715	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler; 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6747	Mr President. Mr. Minister! These draft laws, which are now in place for decision-making, are, in fact, in line with a government proposal that has been drawn up very quickly. There's nothing to point out about this at all, because you don't have to fight for election – just as in an intermediate call – and there's nothing to add to it at all. And it is also true that in Austria the willingness to help each other in a variety of ways is very pronounced. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This raises two questions, Mr Financier, on the one hand concerning the Fund. As early as 2002, we have discussed very intensively how the helpers are actually better protected by social and labour law – if you want to say so – or are to be protected. There is usually nothing bad about it, but the legal positioning of those who actually make sacrificing use here leaves to be desired. We have still not addressed this issue. This does not have to happen immediately on a given occasion, but we should take care of it. I would remind you that we had this debate here as early as 2002. A few years have passed since then, and not much has happened. Let's talk about it. Now to something else, in 2002, on economic and environmental policy. You may have noticed that the term “hundred - year flood” is now given a rather self - willed interpretation. The last comparable flood occurred in 2002, while others were relatively close to it, at least 100 years before that. – Shouldn’t you recognize by means of such simple things that something has long been happening in nature? The “hundred - year flood” now usually comes already at a distance of three years. That should be enough to consider that politics not only needs to be thought in an inclusive way, but also a bit towards nature conservation, a bit towards disaster protection. But above all there is the only and great question, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: the economy! I say to you that a reasonable and modern economic policy is only one that takes into account the ecological issue from the outset. In this sense, you should get beyond your lip confessions and actually work in this direction. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] How do we recognize that? – We recognize how funds are invested. It has been delegationd that the disaster fund is constantly being cleared out, and more so, but I do not want to vote on it any longer. It could be said financially that the damage to disasters is simply paid off from the budget, because the Republic is financially powerful enough that it can do so without a doubt, and has the cheapest interest rates. But I don't want to get any closer to that now. There is another factor, namely: About the disaster fund, from me also via other pots in the future, it is also decided which river construction measures are even spent on money – and there is again the classical and usual slanting situation! The Minister for the Environment is going to shake his head again or pull Grimas, as he did before, but it is really like this: Most of the funds go to the old philosophy of concrete, which you, Mr Minister, continue to have to answer! Who else? BZÖ does not mean “the demonstration party”. It's just the ÖVP that has something to say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 90 percent of the funds go in the completely wrong direction. We should recognize the political orientation by doing so. - That's my appeal. [[New condolences with the greens.]] There have long been concepts for natural river reconstruction; there are also some cardiac projects, especially in Styria. They shake the head, Mr Klubobmann Molte-rer, but they really do exist, you just have the impression that these are just alibi measures. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Glavischnig has said that there is no such thing! Now I don’t know myself anymore!]] A few 100 000 € for a nature learning trail or as in my community, for example, for ecological river construction, and about ten kilometres away is still wooded and upgraded, with much more effort. – That's not how it goes, it's not credible! Mr Lopatka has strapped the comparison of the disaster in New Orleans with the local disasters. This seems to me to be a little far-reaching, but with regard to climate protection and even the role of the USA: In climate protection there is a reluctance, a complete preservation, but also in other areas. And this should be said here in Parliament: A superpower capable of eradicating hundreds of civilian lives in Iraq with aircraft and helicopters on the occasion of alleged terrorist fighting is not able to rescue anyone from their own population in six days! – I am concerned that this will be pronounced once.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6807	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. His speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6829	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the summer of 2005 – one can call it that – the present draft law on compensation and reconstruction also offers the opportunity to make a first assessment. I too would like to join the circles of those who have already thanked the countless volunteers, the federal army, the Red Cross, all who have helped in the hour of the crisis. This assistance can be divided into three areas: Firstly, the acute help on the spot in the hours when the water came; secondly: The reconstruction of the infrastructure and the partially damaged houses; and third – and this is also the important signal on the part of the Federal Government today – the clear signal that we do not leave anyone alone that we actually provide what is necessary in financial terms to give the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address the following question, which some have already mentioned: How does the system work in total disaster protection in Austria? I think that after this summer a balance can be drawn, which means: excellent in the interaction of the municipalities, the federal states and the federal government, rapid and unbureaucratic assistance for the people is guaranteed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Next point, you can also put this clearly and clearly on the table: Where we have installed, where we have taken flood measures by the Federal Government together with the federal states in recent years and decades, this has been done to protect the people. Mr Kogler spoke about “hundred-year floods”. I would recommend that he be informed of what that means in detail. That is to say, a probability to this extent exists every one hundred years, but this does not exclude that probability occurs more often. But we grow in Austria based on the probability of a hundred years of flood. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, you will have in three years!]] We had a five thousand-year weather event in the Paznauntal, ladies and gentlemen Kogler. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] You are obviously blaming the Federal Government for this. I'll tell you: No herb has grown against such precipitation events. On the contrary, we have to deal with the fact that we cannot guarantee protection against such extreme events, neither ecologically nor with the help of cultivation measures, ladies and gentlemen. We have suffered damage to the extent that Mr Vice-Chancellor has mentioned this – € 700 million. There have also been major damage to the plantation measures that have been established to protect people, damage which we now have to remedy. We are working quickly to ensure that protection can be ensured already in the coming weeks. We have immediately opened the disaster fund, and we are making it clear today with this law that the funds needed for further assistance can also be made available. I can give the farmers in the west of Austria, who are severely affected, the signal that we will be offering, together with the federal authorities, a rites-entitlement campaign for those who can no longer provide food for their animals, because it is destroyed. Furthermore, in the Environmental Promotion Act, we will provide the funds necessary to restore drinking water supply and wastewater treatment as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! We have done this in recent years and will do so in the future – because Mrs Glawischnig has addressed: think in the long term –: We will provide € 120 million a year for preventive protection against natural disasters and, as in the past, we will invest a third of them, particularly in environmental measures to protect against natural disasters and hazards. I have a list of where, together with some NGOs who always criticize us, we have implemented regeneration projects very successfully, Lech, Filz, Drau, Liesing, Zaya, for example, and just the example Lech shows that the most natural river in Austria has brought one of the largest floods to the population. This too is not as easy to argue as causal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion my personal impressions, several of us were on site and have experienced the extent of the disaster: It hurts that some of the self-proclaimed civil society make debt allocations from dry Vienna when people pour the water into the window and help others on the spot. That's why: Thank you to all those who were on the spot and helped! [[Calls to the Greens.]] These people deserve our very special respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6893	Next item is the report by Mrs Franz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6915	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Night of the 22rd to the 23rd. August will not be forgotten so quickly. The despair, the fear of survival in That night, caused by rock falls, by floods, murmurs, as we have not known them so far in Vorarlberg, people still sit in the bones, and at this point I have to say, I cannot bear this political awareness at the moment. I am personally affected, but not to the same extent as many others, whose house is no longer inhabitable, whose operation was flooded and whose livelihood was taken. The storm claimed two deaths in Vorarlberg. One of them was buried in Bezau – it was a former student of mine. There were a considerable number of injured people, and many people who lost their homes, their companies were on the verge of despair. In my home town of Bezau more than 100 households are affected, over 40 companies, 13 public buildings and 11 clubs. We had problems with drinking water supply. Our community alone comes at €3.5 million, which is very difficult for our conditions, because we have an annual budget of around €5 million. The damage management is a huge problem, and we are glad that funds have been committed to this, and that is promptly. That is why thanks to the Federal Government, also thanks to our country, which will provide additional resources, especially for the communities so badly affected, from needs allocations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In Vorarlberg, the flood disaster caused a total damage of € 189 million. There are various financing options: Thank God from the disaster fund, thank God also for banks, and thank God for other channels. Vorarlberg also sought support from the European Commission from the European Union Solidarity Fund. It is also intended to help communities and, of course, people personally by means of additional means. The aim must be to give private businesses and communities courage and confidence after floods, that they start again, and no one should be abandoned. – This is how Landeshüfer Sausgruber spoke to us, just after the disaster. Assistance must be provided quickly and unbureaucratically. To the extent of damage, it should be stressed that the protection measures implemented in recent years in the field of wildlife and avalanche cultivation and river construction have still made it possible to avoid worse. Due to the functioning regional disaster management by the mayor and the great use of firearms and rescue organizations, the public institutions, the municipalities, the federal army and the executive and numerous volunteer helpers, far greater damage could be prevented. Thank everyone for that! The decentralised rescue organizations or organisational structures have proved themselves to be very successful in us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was thus possible to make organized operations in each congregation at the same time, and this was particularly important. Thank you to all, thank you to the Federal Government, to the country of Vorarlberg, thank you all here that this package can be decided today – I have never experienced so much solidarity!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6981	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7002	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is more than natural that we today, together, are committed to using tax resources to help those people who need our help urgently. It's not about just giving them money. You have really been involved in a lot, the shock is deep, and of course it is obvious that we support these aid measures. However, I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we were gathered in a special session on the same subject exactly three years ago, at that time also decided on emergency aid and talked about what we can do to at least alleviate disasters in the future, if we cannot avoid them. Passed is little, ladies and gentlemen. For preventive protection, very little has happened. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I would like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Gartlehner, Gaßner, Anita Fleckl, colleagues on sustainable disaster prevention combined with effective security research to reduce disaster damage. The proposal is before us; I can briefly explain it in the cornerstones. Mr Pröll, Minister of State! There are two departments in your field of influence: the Wildbach plantation and the river construction. There you have excellent employees who develop excellent concepts. Do you know what these tell me? – Help us so that we can implement our concepts as well! We don't have the money for it. I'm not standing here alone as a caller in the desert. The head of state of Upper Austria has also found that there is no money to do so. Mr. Landesrat Anschober has found that the money is missing. – It is not enough to develop concepts and studies, but it must also provide the necessary money, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Haubner.]] I repeat: In the course of the last disaster, it has been said that we must do something to ensure that the voluntary helpers are covered by service law. – Zero has happened, ladies and gentlemen! Talk to the firemen! It is not very good for them to provide voluntary services for weeks because, when they return to their company, they may have massive problems. That should be solved, ladies and gentlemen, that is urgent and very, very important! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Where is the common radio frequency in use? Adonis was the keyword. Many millions have been spent on this, and in the truest sense of the word, this concept has gone down the stream. – I think it is necessary to act here! The financial resources, you say, are of course not unlimited, we need to do something. I believe that, on the one hand, with forward-looking flood protection, very much can be saved from recovery costs in the medium and long term, from damage compensation costs. On the other hand, one could give up on pointless investments and spend the money so saved for flood protection. Mr Scheibner spoke briefly about the planes. At that time, in 2002, you said: six planes less – money for the flood victims. However, the flood victims have never seen anything of this money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I'll tell you: Quit all this pointless investment! Leave the old Eurofighters where they are and take part of the money to carry out really sensible prevention!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7100	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing, which has just been put forward in his key points, has just been presented. Gartlehner, Gässner, Anita Fleckl, colleagues on sustainable disaster prevention in conjunction with effective security research to reduce disaster damage has also been filed in writing, so that it is under negotiation and I am on the basis of the scope of § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7189	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. Mr deputies, 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7210	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! That was another example today. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It's not over yet!]] Parliamentary mayor Gaßner has just said what we all feel: Flood protection and assistance to the people affected – in Tyrol and Vorarlberg 700 million damage – must be a concern for all; and we do so together. But at the end of the day, he connected this with the interceptors again! [[Abg. Wicker: Don't make a man!]] They then contradict themselves in many areas. I can tell you the following: Tirol and Vorarlberg are also grateful to this Federal Government for their quick action, including the Parliament, they thank themselves for helping – with 60 percent – countries and federations to rebuild the existences that have been partially destroyed. People need this help, and we in Tyrol are grateful for it. I myself am at the fire brigade and tell you: What we can't handle is nature. I had never experienced before that – like this year – it was not even half a meter long for 10 minutes, it rained so much. Statistics say that over the year the same or similar temperatures exist, that it rains equally much, but nobody says that the present situation is actually what causes disaster; especially in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] In our village there were two walls, although in recent years there has never been anything in this direction. The mayors should take a little of their noses. If today in regions – listen once, honourable Member, this is about mountain valleys, about villages, about building stories! – is built in red zones, because the mayors have in some cases run friendly business there, or have been declared consecrations, or they have been said to build a dam, and then that will fit, and one has gone further into these dangerous zones, then one has to say that it is not right to say that the federal government or the federal government should pay everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Do you know what a danger zone plan is?]] Parliament should consider whether the competences are properly distributed. Spatial planning is made by the municipalities and the countries. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: That's it!]] Yeah, that would be good, because they should know what's going on there. But then the errors come, buildings are built in endangered or very endangered areas, where every five or six years such a disaster can come again. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Call me a mistake! It's a mistake!]] And now we are coming – honourable Member – listen to me! – on the point: In recent years we have had a hundred years of flood, then a ten-year-old, a hundred-year-old, now it was a thousand-year-old in Tyrol – in six years we will have the same floods because a five-thousand-year-old comes. We're making the periods smaller. We have to live with natural disasters, and we have to think about settling people down in some areas, because it is cheaper to settle people and give them a safe home elsewhere. We will have to think about it, as well as that the spatial order will be respected, that the red zones remain red zones, so that you don't just powder money again and the next time we have a five-thousand-year flood, everything will be gone. It is not reasonable for people to experience the same catastrophe every five or six years, to rebuild everything. Perhaps we in this House should consider whether the tasks are properly distributed and whether, I say, laws are necessary in order to avoid what we have had in recent years, also in Upper Austria and in Lower Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Mrs Glavischnig! You only need to go to Lech once. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Climate protection!]] They have prevented this stream from digging out, although everyone knows how dangerous it is. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] They have prevented it, and people will be “thankful” to you because the Lech was responsible for the fact that an entire region was under water there. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7356	The next item is Mrs Mandak's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, four minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7377	Madam President. High house! My colleague Anna Franz has first described the situation of the affected people in Vorarlberg very touchingly and authentically. She said it's still in the bones for the people. – That’s actually the way it is. If you go around the country and talk to those affected, you hear that. It is therefore perfectly clear to us that we support all assistance to those concerned. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, we know how much the helpers have done, whether they are volunteering or mainly working. And that is why it is so important for us to ensure that the volunteers are finally assured by labour law and social law that not those who help others work without a net, as it is left to employers' arbitrariness, whether they tolerate that their employees help. Please support this our concern, and we also secure the helpers from our side! We have this commitment. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] A similar point is the writing down of donations. A long time ago, President Khol promised that he would work for it. We've been demanding this for a long time. Please, we will finally create the deductibility of donations. Put a sign and show how important it is to you that the people here actively support and help the victims! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But Anna Franz also said that she can't bear this better knowledge. – I know it’s a delicate area, then if people themselves are in need if they don’t know how to restore their homes to practice criticism. But don't be angry with me. This criticism must be appropriate because the assistance we provide in the post-war period is not enough, not enough for us who are politically active. In advance, we must ensure that as little as possible of the damage that is currently happening. But we are not doing that at the moment! You have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Mr Lopatka has shown himself here today and has called for technical flood protection. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Is also necessary!]] – Mr Lopatka, that only shifts the problem. Of course, you can install wild streams, install streams, build even higher dams, but the water comes down together. Go to the Ill, go to the Rhine and look at this! It was a huge happiness that it didn't rain as much as in the Lechtal this year in the area of the Alpine Rhine. It was a huge happiness that the Lake Constance had a relatively low water level this year. If it had been different, it would have been catastrophic, because then the entire lower Rhine valley would have been flooded. You have to say that too, and there's nothing using your technical buildings on your own! We need renaturation. [[Abg. May. Molterer: He said yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka:...yes said!]] We have to give room to the water. Mr Klubobmann Molterer, also in your direction and also in the direction of the Minister for Agriculture: It will not be possible without agricultural and forestry areas being provided as targeted floods without floods in the future. Because this is still better than our villages, businesses, houses are flooded. Here we have to think, we need a different kind of flood protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was already talking about the Kyoto target. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Of course we must not forget that. But one last word: The area dedication also has a decisive influence. Houses do not belong to where acute flood risks exist – unfortunately, a lot has been missed in recent years. Here too, we have to start politically, we cannot blame the people concerned afterwards for building their homes there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7501	We therefore come to the second block of topics. The first round of speakers has a speaking time of 8 minutes each. First of all, Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7526	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now entering the debate on the flood package on the Employment Promotion Act. The Employment Promotion Act, together with the secondary legislation, is a consistent continuation of the successful economic policy strategy that this Federal Government has taken since the political turn in 2000. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: There are not even their own people!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If today, as far as growth, prosperity and employment are concerned, we are better off than the majority of European countries in Europe, then this is not a coincidence. In economic policy too, success is not a coincidence, but the result of consistent, hard, goal-oriented work. I can remind you: Political change 2000, 2001: Economic and Social Package I, Economic Package II, 2003: Growth and employment package, 2004: first stage of tax reform, 2005: second stage of tax reform, July this year: Economic and employment package, today: the Employment Security Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – A proof that in international comparison our good figures are not a coincidence, but the result of the successful economic policy of this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, that our excellent current account, which enviouss us abroad, is not a coincidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr President, I believe that when it comes to combating unemployment when it comes to the challenge of pursuing full employment again, this should not be an example of party-political action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mr Gusenbauer! In your press release of your club, it's called: “Austria needs a change of course.” – We had this change of course at the political turn of 2000, please. [[Call the SPÖ: Maximum time!]] Since then we have a successful economic policy, away from debt policy to future policy. The change of course has taken place, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I would really hope and wish I had this great challenge: How do we fight unemployment? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Failed...!]] How do we create growth? How do we achieve the reintegration of long-term unemployed? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Five years are enough...!]] How do we make it easier for women to get back in? How do we offer jobs for young people? a common concern, a consensus matter. But they always try to change political change, ladies and gentlemen, and that is not the solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am aware that what we decide today is investment and new money for skills measures, which is the central challenge on the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... refused five years!]] Because what are we currently experiencing? – There is unemployment, which is undoubtedly too high, and when I get into business, every second farm complains about not getting qualified people. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The challenge is: How do we bring supply and demand to a qualified conclusion? [[Abg. Mandak: Talk to Mrs Gehrer!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mandak! If we use this Employment Promotion Act to control € 285 million – that would be 4 billion schilling – of fresh money, then this is also a consistent continuation of our policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Mr Matznetter, compare the last five years. Today we spend twice as much on active labour market policies as we did in the great coalition. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Double so much: 1.5 billion €, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Record unemployment!]] I'd like to admit: The fresh money we have in our hands here is very much in a policy that very much appreciates stability in the state budget. But it is the art of politics to find the balance between stability for the state budget and the necessary impetus for full employment on the other hand. This is the art of politics. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you are doing what has also happened in the Financial Committee. In the Financial Committee, the criticism of the opposition was: The government is not presenting anything new! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is a denial of reality!]] Then comes an amendment of the opposition – and not a single point is something new. Mr Matznetter, this is the difference between government and opposition You talk a lot – the government is acting! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Difference between opposition and government, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, believe You're telling me: We know that this is not an easy task, because we live in a time – that is to say quite soberly – which has an essential mark: the pace of change. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Is this an excuse that you did everything wrong?]] There have always been changes in human history, but the pace has never been as stunning as it is at present. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You're too fast, Mr. Colleague stupid?]] In the working world too, Mr Matznetter, the pace of change. It is therefore extremely difficult to keep pace with this pace of change and adapt those skills that are necessary in the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You do not change anything in education policy!]] Mr Oellinger in the Financial Committee Examples of which one has to say: If the qualification measures are, then this is not very well done! – I think that we all agreed – I tell you the following: I would also like to make the proposal before the plenary, which I have already made in the Financial Committee, and which, Mr Matznetter, has proved itself in the Financial Committee: Throughout party borders, I invite the leaders of the political groups, the financial committee and the Committee, in which we discuss these problems without any taboos. I do not want to have what Mr Öllinger has pointed out either. But there is no law, and there is no ministerial order that requires such absurd measures that you have rightly shown and criticized. Let us go together on a path in which we can solve the problems without taboos, without party boundaries. I am not pleased if we wish to change political small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to these national concerns. My effort is there, I invite you: Let's go this way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The following priorities are included in this legislative package: Rehabilitation of the long-term unemployed to facilitate the return to work of women to provide employment opportunities for young people. And if we say here, for example, that we want to expand health and care professions, we can also maintain – with all the difficulty of forecasts – that the health and care sector is a growth industry. I believe that this is undisputed in terms of demographic development. This is why we are talking about safe jobs, good qualifications. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Five years of sleep!]] Let me also say a word about the combination wage, which is also envisaged here: I'm not a friend of wage subsidies, but one thing I also have to say: With each month that a unemployed person is longer unemployed, his chances of finding a job deteriorate. [[Abg. Silhavy: But you don't have to do that with the combi lohn!]] It has been theoretically discussed about the combi-loan for many years. I say: If we stop with the theoretical discussions, we will introduce it for one year in time, as is planned, for very specific target groups. Try is about studying. The government is acting – you are talking!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7835	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Gusenbauer, was next mentioned. Speech time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7857	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament has just said silently: The change of course in employment policy took place in 2000. – That is the right thing to do, because since then unemployment in Austria has been increasing steadily! That was the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The change of course à la stupid and black and blue Federal Government has caused us today to have the highest unemployment in history, that at the same time, despite good trade union wage increases, income - as the Wifo report has shown - has no longer increased net since 1995 and that the lower income five today earn inflation-adjusted by 17 percent less than ten years ago. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The highest level of employment!]] This is the balance of your employment and economic policy, Mr President. In fact, this requires a change of course towards full employment and growth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's package, which will partly also be supported by the Social Democratic Group, has the advantage that more money for employment and skills measures is actually being used. That's okay, that's absolutely fine. But one has to be aware of one thing: This continues to finance unemployment and the opportunity to get out of unemployment through skills. Mr Stumvoll, a problem which is the main problem, is not solved by the fact that economic growth is still low and that most people do not find employment despite higher employment. And people are primarily concerned with finding a place, not a place, but a job. That is why this package, which is progressing, does not solve the employment abuse, but we need additional measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For some of the people who are unemployed, what, yes, but for those who do not find employment due to lack of growth, the question arises: Where are the measures to strengthen purchasing power that would really bring growth in Austria? Where are your proposals for the repair of the accident tax reform, which unilaterally gives the money to the large corporations and takes away the beneficiaries of small and medium-sized incomes? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: What is “favorable ”?]] Where are the investments you are referring to, which are not provided for in this package, for example, in additional public infrastructure? The Federal Government has not taken any step wherever it was concerned about growth measures. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You don't believe that yourself!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good step, but only half a step. It will not be enough to tackle unemployment in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of the combination wage should also be considered problematic. Because what's going on here? . In Austria, low-paid employment, of which there is relatively little, is supported by state resources. And, of course, there is a danger that existing low-paid jobs will be replaced by a combination of wage jobs, which does not create any additional employment at all. And there is a problem, especially among the boys, that when they get into a combi-loan situation, they also come out of this no longer. In principle, the question arises whether it is possible to promote a sector in one of the richest countries in the world, which wants to exist in international competition, where we know that we are certainly not competitive. It would be much wiser to use the money to create high-quality jobs and not to promote low-income jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! This combined wage requires additional resources, but will prove to be economic and employment deadlocks, because it is about good jobs and not about those who are subsidized by the state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Because if there was a criticism of the Wifo distribution study, then it was that the problem exists that not the individuals have become poorer, but that there are more part-time jobs today and more jobs with lower incomes and therefore the average has fallen. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if you look closely at this, then you have to realize that it cannot be our goal that people pursue a job, but can no longer live from the income from work and therefore become beneficiaries of social assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, our goal must be that every person who pursues a job deserves so much that he can fight his livelihood with it. And with this combination wage, in reality a development is taking place, which strengthens the trend towards working some that increase the tendency to bring people into working conditions, where they end up with a wage from which one cannot live. That is why I tell you that this money for the combination wage should be better used for skills and for high-quality jobs and not for the creation of a new low-paid sector in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This package is planned for one year in its financing. In a year, the question will be asked if unemployment... – We agree to this package except for the combination wage, but we need to be aware whether after a year unemployment has fallen or not. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: You agree?]] And if in one year growth is not higher than today, then in one year we will face the same situation that, with low growth, we no longer have employment in Austria and will again be forced to put in place such repair measures. Even if we agree to these repair measures, I tell you that there is no way to go by that in Austria a growth-oriented economic policy needs to be made. [[Abg. May. Molterer: It's made!]] And this is only if one invests more in public infrastructure, does a repair of this unfortunate tax reform, and finally relieves the middle class and small incomes in Austria. This brings growth, it brings employment and is the better way, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7984	Next, Mr Magistrate. It's the main word. 8 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8027	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer, you have said, at least fairly, that on the part of the great opposition party, you are at the very heart of this Packages will give your consent. You have not said that the structural packages 2002, 2003 and 2004 have also happened to the High House with the approval of the opposition. They act as if the government and the government parties here had decided on structural packages against the will of the opposition. No, with the will of the opposition a lot has happened. Therefore, with regard to the criticism you have made, you should do so in your own field and in your own actions that you have supported here, instead of unfairly putting all that into the shoes of the government where you were with it. Perhaps that would also bring fairness in the parliamentary debate. Secondly, Mr Gusenbauer: Yes to higher-qualification measures, yes to higher-qualification measures and post-schooling, even for young people who have deficits after compulsory school and do not control basic techniques. But that is exactly what this programme is all about. And I am deeply convinced that the 5,000 free jobs that are available in Austria and which are to be made by people involved in combination wages in the future have a clientele that deserves to finally find a job again. The combination wage is nothing new in Austria. We have combined wages in this form already in the disabled, with the introduction of protected workshops to the first labour market successively with post-schooling, school-care, with appropriate qualification, with the corresponding way to the first working world. What should be bad about this if we finally put those young people or long-term unemployed people who have the lowest qualifications out of the city park and out of the drug scene into employment, and thus also with these young people or those who are long-term unemployed, who start what we see successfully with older workers and with the disabled today in statistics, but also at the workplace? – By means of combination wages, support, these people are able to enter the first working world and thus have a secure future. We therefore believe that this model of the combination wage with the review after a year will be a good model for the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let us take a look at the statistics of older workers over 60, where unemployment is 12 percentage points in wage subsidies. It is the category that is increasingly less and less found in unemployment statistics, but more and more in the field of employment. Why should what has proved to be the case with older workers over 60, at once not with younger workers and young people? Of course, it will be necessary for one to take care of the labour market service as well, but, as I say in the Committee, also of the Chambers of Workers and of the Chamber of Commerce to take care of the training and training of the institutions. And I'm worried about the fact that in Vienna, just because elections are in front of the door, men are offering ironing courses. They may then take on some of the unpaid work at home, but they will not get employment through it. If you take courses, I think this should actually be in the sense of higher qualification, and you should have workers who have already made the first and second self-invention courses and hundreds in excellent form. They have sent letters of application, not another third or fourth course of self-invention. There would also be a need for more imagination in the labour market service facilities. However, I would also like to say clearly that this is not a standard throughout Austria. There are work districts in Austria that do excellent work. There are work districts which have excellent continuing and continuing training opportunities. There are labour districts where women, disadvantaged groups and the economy have high-qualifications, which are excellent. But unfortunately there are also some remains from the time of the great coalition, where you have not learned it. Perhaps we should also work there together with the social partners to ensure that these too finally become a modern service company and not insist where they have been in the past. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you also meant: Where, then, do the discharge effects remain for the population? – This is also included in this package. On the one hand, it is the increase in kilometre, and on the other hand it is still the proposals of our group, which we have practiced in Carinthia, where we have opened the public gas stations, while all the other federal states have rejected it. Take a look at the statistics on fuel prices! In Carinthia you can find the cheapest gas station in Austria for weeks and months at our colleague Bucher in Friesach. These are 400, 500 €, which remain in the wallet of pendlers and are not deposited at the tap column. I therefore believe that we can also create more together with the federal states in this respect than we do today. With some intelligence, we only need to re-evaluate what is already proven in some federal states today, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to add one to the current debate: Since 1999, Mr Bartenstein has managed the instrument to make a price fixing again. If the political pressure of colleagues Grasser and the vigours of colleagues Bartenstein and many others in the Austrian economy are not enough to finally bring the oil multis to the fore, that, although they spend every increase and every windstorm immediately with one to two cents on the tap, but any reduction in prices can only be found by day late on the market, then the instrument adopted by the Austrian Parliament in 1999 should actually apply to the oil multis. Then we could get more money for consumption and more money for economic promotion, but less money for the OMV. I say this so worthlessly. I would also like to hear from you that you post the same idea in your papers and applications. To date, I have not read such demands from the great opposition party.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8130	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Van der Bellen. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8152	Madam President. Mr. Stumbling! In one point, I can calm you down: The Greens will agree to this employment promotion package – thank you! –, although against individual [[Bravorufe at ÖVP]] [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] Debates of the European Parliament But at third reading we will give the overall package our approval, especially because certain measures in the field of higher education, in the field of continuing training and especially in the area of re-entry of women into the labour market after a baby break are in principle correct and important steps, although – and I am returning to it – certainly not enough to eliminate the disadvantages of women in the labour market. Part of the problem is that, as far as women are concerned, this package is limited to women planning to re-entry, i.e. to re-enter the labour market after a baby break. Of course, the disadvantage of women in the labour market is not limited to women with children – under quotations. The income disadvantages, the differences in wages and salaries, which then naturally continue in the area of lower pensions for women, are not limited to women with children, are unexplainable by the child war, the child raising alone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] You know that, of course, Mrs Brinek. In women with children, “only” – again under quotations – the destruction of human capital is the greatest. What we have invested in the education of women as well as in the education of young people and young boys is most likely to be lost in women with children in the course of time. – I express myself so economically, because I always think that this could be the most likely thing at the ÖVP before I argue socially political here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a huge problem. As one study showed this year, a quarter of women will say and write after the baby break a return to the labour market to almost those conditions on which they have left the labour market, i.e. on equivalent conditions, while three quarters of women either do not return at all – very bad! – or to accept part-time work, of course paid worse, or to accept a poorer paid, poorer qualified activity than those they took on exit. Today's package, as good and as precise as it is in detail, we agree, does not provide sufficient countermeasures. Once again I must say, without a rethinking of the government parties in the field of childcare from the youngest ones to the kindergartens, through the folk schools to the lower secondary level, i.e. more childcare, more all day schools, more afternoon care for children, it won't go! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Otherwise, discrimination, discrimination against women on the labour market will continue as it has been. Another point – hopefully it's a smaller one – gives me to think in this relationship: Mrs. Rauch-Kallat now sends a letter, a letter from women who receive child benefits, about 18 months after the child's allowance, stating that, after 24 months, the notice of termination is coming to an end, and that the person concerned may consider what she is doing and whether she does not want to attend a vocational orientation course, a vocational orientation seminar. That makes me a little suspicious. The letter is all right. The information: Attention, there are deadlines running out, especially the protection of terminations!, is already in order. But vocational orientation seminars, ladies and gentlemen, are usually courses for 15-year-old girls and boys who want to orient: What can I become, what corresponds to my skills, what corresponds to my talents et cetera? – It may not be possible to attract women after the baby break, to start again from the front! As far as possible – there will always be exceptions – human capital should be used where one has already invested, and not quite elsewhere. It may already be that in the individual case someone can then be re-trained, I don't know, a care or health profession – in the individual case! But not every technical artist, every academically educated woman should now suddenly be stimulated in this way to do something quite different! This would certainly be linked to loss of income for women. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have some heartbeat on a point that Mr Stummvoll has already made on the basis of my colleague Karl Oellingerim's evidence. Such a programme, as it is decided today, with the higher-qualification measures and so on, is as good or as bad as implementation works. I really don't want to give the impression that the AMS, the labour market service, is doing a total bad job. It is probably far better than the German institutions in this area, for example. Only, we get ongoing complaints, legitimate complaints about what is offered in different courses and how little customer and client-oriented that is. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to list this in detail today, but we have a very interesting protocol of a 50-year-old who had to attend a 13-week course – that is to say, three months where I wonder if someone has been thinking about the composition of the first two weeks. This is colorfully mixed between auxiliary workers, maturants, people with and without teaching qualifications, one or two who can hardly or at all not German. What's the point? Blending is good and beautiful, but a certain target orientation must be there. Also at age: One is 30, the other is 61. What's the point? They have completely different needs in terms of the labour market and qualifications! To mix this between mechanists, people without a degree, people who can't even read and write – for whatever reason – doesn't make sense. They obviously need a very differentiated aid, differentiated measures in the field of further qualification – and not such a course, which is actually for everything and nothing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, the same applies in the area of the so-called seven-week qualification courses. In this case, the gastronomy in question has chosen, and he concludes that the seven weeks were completely “for the cat”. He has learned nothing that would at least qualify him as a cook or waiter, perhaps kitchen aid or dishwasher, but he has already experienced much higher qualifications in the gastronomy. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, if we cannot guarantee that implementation will work, this law will not help either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8279	Next, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Let's talk about it. Mr. Federal Chancellor, 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8302	High house! First: Where do we stand in the growth policy – because all the political groups, I believe, are equally moving – how can we generate growth, how can we, in particular, claim to be within a slowly growing euro zone? I think we're not so bad at all. We have about an economic growth of 1.75 to 2% this year, even a little better, we are above the EU-25 average, we are above the EU-15 average, we are above the euro area average. Our second most important trading partner, Italy, has virtually no growth, Germany as our most important and Switzerland as our third most important trading partner has about half that great economic growth. I am not saying this because of apologizing, but simply to describe the difficulties of the environment as well. [[Abg. Großruck: To see the relationship!]] That we say so well about the cut of Europe is indeed a small Austrian miracle. Thanks to the entrepreneurs, thanks to the employees, thanks Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, the question of purchasing power. This is, I believe, a very important point, because if there is too little externalness – Eastern Europe works, but if there is too little from the big, old European partners – what can we do to stimulate domestic demand, so to speak? It must always be said that, of course, not half of our national income can now be generated by domestic demand; we need to know that. We already have 52 percent as a small, very successful open economy when I calculate tourism and freight and financial services exports together. But of course you can and must do something to stimulate the buying power in the country. Now, if you look at things honestly, Mr. Opposition Leader: You really can't do more than we did. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Please!]] We've got 1 now. In January of this year, the biggest tax reform, a reduction of €1.5 billion for employees, for families, for the commuters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] €1.5 billion! – Look, even club boss Cap already sees in it the harmonic sounds of a violin. But it's really true, it's verifiable. 1.5 billion € discharge for all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Gross earnings – that is what the Economic Research Institute says, not me – are rising by about 2.5 percent this year and next year. Gross earnings rise by 2.5 percent! This means that Austria is going to Luxembourg – a comparison that makes us safe – in second place in the purchasing power per capita. So we are not far from the back of the European Union, but we are at the front with the Luxembourgers. A reason to be proud of this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Then, in a very difficult situation – the international oil price is not really affecting the drivers with the not even 10 percent own resources and promotions by the OMV – we have relieved them. We have worked together to achieve this after we have already increased the penalty rate with January by 15 percent, once again by 10 percent. So a 25 percent higher pendulum fee for the drivers! We'll increase the kilometre to 38 cents. This is a top priority, so we are in the top group in Europe. And we're relying on alternatives, for example, the biosprit. At ATB, Waltraud Klasnic has just made a big investment in Spielberg. [[Abg. Eder: You just want to highlight the Klasnic positively!]] Of course, we need to highlight this positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's just about to get rid of your dirty dome campaign. [[Embarrassed calls at the SPÖ.]] Waltraud Klasnic fights for the jobs in Styria! There's something going on, and that's what you have to do, dear friends! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At ATB, dear Josef Cap, for example, the hybrid motors of the next and next generation are manufactured for the electric motors. This is a great green and white success for the Styria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dobnigg.]] Next point – of course very important –: the pensioners. Of course, pensioners cannot influence their incomes. This depends solely on the political framework, it depends exclusively on taxpayers and a solid budget. Now I'm telling you something: We have done it with this tax reform, that about half of Austrian pensioners no longer pay any taxes at all. [[Abg. Sburny: Because they just have so little!]] Secondly, with our pension reform, which you have all voted against, we have now set the course that pensions from 1. January will be increased by 2.5 percent, but maximum but 47 €. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear friends, this is living social policy! Just to remind the television viewers who might follow the debate: Red-Green in Germany will be called: For the third time in a row, pensioners will no longer receive any inflation tax at all in a time of red-green responsibility. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] With us from 1st. January 2.5 percent! In addition, the compensatory allowances will be added. Family allowances are increased to €1,056, the individual compensation allowance is raised above the poverty limit, from €663 to €690. That's 27 € that's put in there. That is, in the time we have to answer here, we have raised the individual compensation allowance by 100 € within six years and the family compensation allowance by 215 €. 17 percent plus, 26 percent plus. This costs alone – so that you can say it here, too, because it is done as if all of this were peanuts – more than €600 million in the next budget. That is to say, in my time, next year 2006 the total cost of pensions will be €7.2 billion higher than in the period when a socialist chancellor held responsibility for a Social Democratic Finance and Social Minister. 28 percent plus! And now you trust to say once again that this is “neo-liberal”, “cold” or whatever. This is living social policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we are already talking about growth and employment, Mr Gusenbauer, I would like to invite you, as a matter of urgency, to distance yourself from your insanity, to cut support for rural areas and agriculture by 50 percent. [[lively calls to the SPÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] This would affect two thirds of the Austrian population and 500 000 jobs. I would ask you to distance yourself from this idea, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And not enough with that, we have given the labour market and the unemployed a generous package. It is true that we had 219 000 unemployed in August. That's too much, not a question, but we're doing something about it. [[Abg. Oillinger: What are you doing about it?]] 1 000 € premium per apprentice and operation per year, and now additional, at the suggestion of Egon Blum, 400 € per month for each additional apprentice. We already have 5 000 applications for this programme. This is a living policy for the youth of this country! The Federal Government, the Länder, the municipalities, the social insurance companies and the ÖBB also offer 2 000 additional apprenticeships for the coming year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's how you do it! And I would also like to thank the fact that this is recognised; there is no one who is ultimately calling these measures into question. However, the main focus of the programme is an employment promotion law, an additional qualification for 61,000 people: health and care, a re-qualification and a re-qualification/qualification of women, a post-primary education and training, and a combined wage. I also say something very openly: The idea of a combination wage comes from the social partners, from the employer side. [[Abg. Broukal: Are these not social partners?]] From the employer side, of course; this is also a social partners. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Just as some of the ideas that can be found in this programme come from the employee side and have been taken over by us, I also think it is natural to try out whether the combination wage is a suitable model. And personally: I think there's a lot of work behind that. ==References====External links== May-dialogue of the Chamber of Workers, of the ÖGB, of the Chamber of Commerce, have come from the Industrial Union; Topics that we have evaluated with the economic researchers over the summer. I believe that this almost €300 million qualification programme for over 60,000 unemployed is a very real step forward. I also thank you for having a unanimous decision on this programme today, which shows that things can not be so bad in Austria in 2005. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8545	Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you did not talk about your 10-minute speaking time for 7 1⁄2 minutes. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I didn't interrupt you. I also do not intend to give you a call for an order regarding the statement “wisdom”, although that is on our list. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is crazy!]] However, I would like to say here that this must also be a matter of the Presidency. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Who told you now?]] Mr Klubobmann spoke on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8620	Madam President. High house! Federal Chancellor! I note, Madam President, that the tone and the way in which the Federal Chancellor has spoken here must be the subject of the next presidency. I would like to point out that the baseline and, above all, the use of a German chancellor’s word “sulphur” is unworthy! [[Abg. Grill: It's a fact!]] It is an insult to the competitors and the political opposition, and I believe, Federal Chancellor, you should apologize for this choice of words here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8657	Mrs Glawischnig spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8684	Madam President. – Mr Federal Chancellor, outside this House we cannot influence your choice of words, but within this House certain rules apply. Both the word “wrong campaign” and the word “insanity ideas” are words that usually lead to a call for order here in the house. [[Prolonged calls.]] I do not think that this is absolutely inappropriate and the dignity of the House appropriate for you, Mr President-in-Office, to go down this way with the Members of this House, and I would urge you to apologise! No matter what tone you take in election campaigns in Styria or in Germany, wherever, your case is – but please not in this House!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8730	The Rules of Procedure are referred to by Mr Mag. Molterer's word. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8754	Madam President. High house! Clearly, German Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, with his speech today, actually hit the nerve of people's concerns, otherwise I could not imagine the reaction of the opposition, as it is now. It is of course clear that the success of Mrs. Klasnic's approach to Styria is one of the most important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is quite natural, ladies and gentlemen, that the purchasing power effects of the increase in pensions should be mentioned. [[Calls of the Abg. Sburny.]] It is quite natural that...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8799	Mr Klubobmann, please do not give up your speech on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8837	Madam President, then we will also have to judge your interpretation in the presidency, because a clubman cannot be prescribed as to what he has to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite natural that, for example, the effects of the Employment Promotion Act are outlined here. And that, I think, is of course also a possibility which the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria can make use of.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8878	Mr Klubmann Scheibner spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8903	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. I am very sorry that this party-politically motivated spectacle of this Rules of Procedure will give the television viewer the opportunity to take a look at the content of the arguments. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] Madam President, and I cannot spare you this criticism either, because in the President-in-Office we have agreed that there are no applications to the Rules of Procedure during the television season to avoid abuse and party policy being carried out at the expense of information. [[Lively contradiction with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This too will be the subject at the next presidential meeting. I hope we will return to the arguments now, because that is what people ask of us in front of the televisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8960	There is sufficient rest again. We are continuing the debate. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. 5 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8990	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Social policy, the relief of low incomes, the promotion and support of those who work, for example through the Payroll and employment policy, are related things for me and my group. I would like to hold on to that at the beginning. I think that the interrelationships are also evident in an international comparison of the number of employees. Every single unemployed person/any single unemployed person is too much in our country, but one has to draw this comparison, because in the event of an international economic and growth crisis, we also have to focus on the environment. In any case, Austria is excellent in this regard. And with the employment package to be decided today, we are trying not only to address shortcomings in labour market qualification of individuals/individuals, but also to meet the labour market needs for workers. Today a speaker has already mentioned that unemployment on the one hand often confronts the phenomenon on the other hand that skilled forces are often not available. It is therefore absolutely right that of these €285 million a major part, namely € 266 million, is spent on qualification measures: Qualification, for example, in the field of health and care professions, post-qualification of new professionals who – for which reasons always – did not succeed, for example, the primary school degree, until higher-qualification checks, which were no longer requested on the market. Further: Qualification of young people and qualifications – this is a big package – especially for women, in order to raise the already good Austrian employment rate of women, as well as measures in the apprenticeship sector. The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned the so-called Blum-Bonus. . I would like to point out once again that the previous measures for apprentices remain true, to the fullest extent. Additional money on the “Blum bonus”, 400 € per month, is available for additional teaching courses. It would be essential if other participants in the labour market – countries and communities, for example – to meet this offer and this support through the labour market policy of the Federal Government, for example, that the country, that the municipality of Vienna should take account of the long-term demand for local contracts in particular of those establishments that train apprentices, finally comply or at least at least talk about this requirement at all. We could make such a contribution to improving the sad apprenticeship situation in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The combi-loan has been criticized here by some speakers. [[Abg. Oellinger: Also from the Minister! The Minister wasn't for it either!]] I give it to Mr Klubobmann. Van der Bellen quite right that there might be some effect that is not desired, but my own: If you know that every week longer unemployment decreases the chance to be re-acquired, we also have to venture over this experiment – we have limited it to a year and then evaluate it – to actually help those people who are looking for a career start. I am therefore convinced that this is a right social-political measure – and not a contradiction to qualification, because this package of € 285 million will be spent € 19 million on the Combi-Lohn sector. On the other hand, I would also like to see the effects of a work take-up, for example through particularly high kindergarten prices for young families, as is the case in Vienna, removed so that we do not invest labour market funds in kindergarten prices in Vienna. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, I believe that we can all agree to this package in order to provide a further impetus for labour market policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9083	The next item is the speech by Mr Leutner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9105	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Right at the beginning of my remarks, Federal Chancellor: Due to your immense derailments today, no single job will be created in Austria! [[Interlude calls at the ÖVP and calls: What do we mean by derailments?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have also spoken about pensions here today. . We have looked through the pensions, ladies and gentlemen, namely adaptation and inflation. Result: In your time of government, Mr. Federal Chancellor, pensions did not rise in our country, but actually fell by more than 6 percent! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:False speech!]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler, today praised the tax reform so much. – I say to you: A middle earner in Austria has a total of 25 € of this tax reform in the month! And that's why people in our country say they didn't feel anything about this your tax reform! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first debate in the Austrian National Council on employment, which takes place practically in the wake of the 220 000 unemployed in August. Never since the founding of the Second Republic has an economic minister had to present such monthly figures! The highest unemployment for 50 years you and this Federal Government have to answer! That's the balance sheet! This is the “wonder ”! From this responsibility we will not release you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] We from SPÖ have repeatedly offered you over the past few months from the ÖVP and the Freeman to fight record unemployment together with all necessary measures. Only now that unemployment is increasing and increasing have you presented a training package. Yes, we will agree to this, I expressly say, because it has for the first time, and partly on demands that the SPÖ has been raising for many months. [[Abg. Lens: But first say that everything is bad...!]] What is so critical, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that reasonable proposals from the employee's representatives of interests are received so late in terms of qualifications from this government. This package is coming too late today! This threat of winter unemployment can no longer be influenced by this Employment Promotion Act, but it only occurs on 1 January. January 2006 in force. If this had been created in time, we say two years earlier, a considerable number of people could do much better today. – Therefore: You also have the responsibility of this Federal Government for this delay! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me say one last word on the issue of Kombi-Lohn, which we had a discussion about last summer. I believe that the arguments against the introduction of a combination wage are still valid. Among experts, one was always clear, ladies and gentlemen: It is about 5 000 jobs, usually part-time jobs, which cannot be occupied because the working and wage conditions are such that people must say: I can't live on that! In reality, for example, it is very often – I know the reality in this area – about so-called truck unloading twice a week. These are the jobs that this is about! And these bad jobs are still being subsidized with taxpayers' money! This is the problem that opens up. I believe that social policy, especially when it comes to young people, should not rely on this combination wage, but on forward-looking skills. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] We from the SPÖ will make it clear with our voting behaviour, ladies and gentlemen: We are in favour of this employment package, even if it is too late. But the introduction of a combination wager is – we are convinced – the wrong way! It is precisely because the urgent financial relief of the population – a discharge beyond a tax reform – is lacking, that package will not again be sufficient to combat record unemployment in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9250	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9271	Thank you, Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In speaking to my previous speaker, I noticed that, in principle, the employment package is highly appreciated by you, except for the combination wage. And if I take along something from the speeches of speakers of the opposition parties, then it is certainly also the recognition of the In order to ensure that this employment package is properly and properly implemented, the Federal Government is trying to give Austrians who are not currently in employment a chance. Even if you criticise the somewhat pointed speech of our Federal Chancellor by the opposition parties and say that he did not create a single job with this speech: [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have destroyed 50,000 jobs with your national policy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's right! That's right!]] You should take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] As you have also mentioned the amount of wages and collective contract terms from SPÖ here: [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why is this going on in other countries...?]] We here in the House are not responsible for wage, collective agreements, but in Austria this is the task of the social partners! You should take note of this! You yourself are a partner in this body and are therefore well aware of the responsibility you have to bear there. In fact, we know today – and we should have this honesty – that politics has only minimal instruments in hand to create jobs in our country; we all know that. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: And in other countries is this already happening...?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Let us look at Germany, where your group rules 50 000 German citizens are currently with us in Austria in employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[new calls to the SPÖ]] There is something wrong with this system in Germany! We in Austria have set up a reasonable and orderly labour market system, one that goes towards growth and employment. This is what we are missing from your colleagues in Germany. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] This is also the reason why the European Union, which is why the large EU countries of France and Italy have been lagging behind in terms of economic activity, because they have just put in place wrong employment measures in the past. – On the other hand, we in Austria have put in place sensible and proper measures. As an example, I would just like to quote Infineon: Why is Infineon going from Bavaria to Carinthia? From the highly praised Bavaria, an economic paradise, as we have always heard, the entire automotive area from Infineon moves to Villach! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Because they have a good mayor in Villach!]] [[Calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A great example of a trending, orderly settlement policy in our state of Carinthia, because this combination is taking effect: Measures by the Federal Government and measures taken by our head of state in Carinthia – a sensible, a great employment policy that is absolutely to be supported, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Look back at what this Federal Government has done in connection with the economic and employment packages, with a large tax relief: 3 billion €, but you voted against by the SPÖ! I would also like to mention the growth package of this Federal Government, with a positive impact on growth in Austria as a whole by 0.7 percent. New jobs have been created. I would also like to mention the investment in infrastructure, which was made by our Federal Minister Gorbach, which enabled the creation of additional thousands of jobs. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Gorbach has only secured its own workplace!]] Further: Investments in research and development, new, fresh money, 600 million! In your time, you have fogged all of this when you were supposed to bear responsibility. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ as well as calls to the liberals.]] It is important to bring Austria to a future course in the field of research, development and innovation – and to this we also make a significant contribution to the Employment Promotion Act, in which we greatly favour the young people in whom we have low-paid and low-skilled unemployed people in our country: with a meaningful package of measures, which will also help to ensure that those who currently have little job prospects will receive such a one; for example, these 5,000 are found in the combination sector. You always criticize me, Mr Gusenbauer. You have to explain to one of these 5,000 unemployed people why you are from the SPÖ against this combination wage model. Explain One of these 5,000 unemployed people, which is supposed to be bad! [[Abg. Gradwell: Yes, listen to me! For an hour we've been talking about it...!]] What is bad, then, about the fact that the state is taking a grant in this model and giving these people the chance of a job?- Oh, my God! What is bad about including 5,000 low-qualified unemployed in the labour market?- Oh, my God! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] To sum up: a great package that Austria will carry on economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9465	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9487	Ladies and gentlemen! Remarkably, Mr Bundeskanzler, I already think that you are in this debate – with the exception of this debate! – shudder down from the government bank and blame the opposition “wrong campaign” and “insanity ideas”. [[Abg. Lentsch: In the Styria!]] This is remarkable, therefore, because we agree with the opposition at this point. – Your criticism, Mr Bundeskanzler, would have been better suited to the issue of floods, because it is quite obvious that the ÖVP stands the water to the neck. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As far as the German Chancellor is concerned, I would like to say that I would like to make a point on the subject of "pollutant campaign". You do well to ask you to make direct communication with your Secretary General Lopatka, for he understands something of it! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You know, I could make it easy now and say to what we are dealing with here, what a not very quiet country captain of this republic always says on such occasions: “In the evening” – in this case on the election evening – “the lazy will be diligent!” The following also: If we had done the same with the opposition to these unemployment figures as this head of state, when the unemployment figures were even lower, then this debate would look different. – No, however, we do not, but not because you would make such a great policy or because what you present here would really be so good! [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Is it!]] On the contrary! It is, however, I tell you, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, better than nothing. On a scale from one to ten, where one stands for the worst point and ten for the optimum, you would get a point; yes, I agree with you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Go! Go!]] If, after three years, you don't have any time – at a time when we have always criticized the opposition for unemployment and your absence – come here and say: We are doing something against unemployment!, then it is probably also good for an opposition party to think about whether or not to agree to it. At least we say: better than nothing! That's the way it is. This package of measures may help some people, but is convinced that: I am not the one who would create an optimal framework and measures. I can tell you why not. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is not communist and that's why you don't like it!]] Why don't you go – in view of this particular energy situation – and spend the money you actually spend on promoting, for example, thermal rehabilitation? Yes, given this energy situation and what we are likely to discuss here in a month, namely heating subsidies for those who do not have money, it would be ten times more useful! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why don't you go here, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties and spend the money on child care? No, you don't, don't! Why don't you go here and create sustainability in the field of education and qualification, but not just for one year?- Oh, my God! This is right now with you until the election date – and no longer!, we know exactly that. I still have a very good memory of what we debated in the special session last week when you said that we no longer need better qualified people, that it is enough. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That was what remained in your speeches with me – and what you said there is bad enough, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Who should have said such a thing...?]] I could also have imagined that in the area of apprenticeship training, where you give a lot of money to businesses, much tax relief is being used to make what would be urgently necessary, for example: for example, a second vocational schooling day, an extension of vocational training! Yes, pupils also need a better education in Austria than they are currently receiving! That's a fact, and that's what the companies, the companies, and that's what the apprentices know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would do the apprentices well, would help them – but you do not do it by the government parties! You would have had the chance to decide with us. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Why not take a step, for example, in the area of childcare aid?- Oh, my God! – At least there are many possibilities – and I think we have now brought you enough examples of how you could have done more. Therefore, once again: It is better than nothing you do – but not good enough for employment!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9642	The next item is Mr Bartenstein's speech. 8 minutes speaking time. – Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9664	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we had on the table the economic forecasts for 2005 – on the part of IHS, on the part of Wifo, partly on the part of the EU Commission – we assumed that we would achieve economic growth of around 2.5 percent this year and achieve a trend change on the labour market, i.e., declining unemployment rates. This has not happened, and I note that Dr. Gusenbauer spoke for the first time today in this clarity also of the clear connex between the labour market, unemployment and growth. I have been doing this for years and days, because for the real turnaround in the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, more growth is needed; this needs Austria as a growther in the course of a European growth shift, which is unfortunately not visible from today's point of view. In the course of this development, although we have to note a slight rise in unemployment, the unemployment rate in Austria is only about half of the European average. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please, stop it!]] We are quite envied by foreign countries – Germany, England, France – to get our labour market data. [[Abg. Oillingers: Not from England anymore!]] Nevertheless, every unemployed person is one too much, and we can only easily, but still rising unemployment is absolutely not satisfied. The fact that the Federal Government is preparing a qualification offensive in these weeks and months and is presenting it to the House today, as it has not yet seen Austria, is right policy, ladies and gentlemen, at the right time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This qualification offensive has the already discussed volume of € 285 million – stupidly translated into 4 billion old schilling – and 325,000 jobseekers have now been registered by the AMS about 386 000 annually, i.e. a plus of 61 500 or 20 percent jobseekers in qualification. As part of this offensive, the AMS's regular budget for this area of € 711 million will be added to it by 30 percent. This is a qualification offensive that can be seen more than just by the volume and the thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I therefore do not quite understand, Mr President, that you said on Sunday, during the "press hour" of the ORF, that the government had stopped here half way. – I can remind you that it was and is the SPÖ and that it was the AK and the ÖGB that demanded an increase of €60 million per year in qualification. We don't say €60 million, but we say €285 million. That is clearly more, and we have not stopped half way, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] It is important and good that there is a four-party agreement here, although some debates on the part of the opposition did not really allow that to happen. But you said it, and in committee it was so, so I assume. It's important that we build on proven ones. We have probably implemented the best instruments of Europe, our AMS, and if there is more money now, it can do more. Up to now, 5 000 people – mostly women – have already been successfully qualified in care and health professions. These are direct job opportunities that can be used here. "Jobs for You(th)" means the employment and qualification programme for young people up to 25, which has all possible problems up to the lack of primary schooling. This is a programme that is very expensive – and I add that – but 65 percent of the programme's people get a job without additional funding, and a success rate of 65 percent is not bad. Thank you, dear AMS! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That we assumed at the so-called Blum-Bonus that there could be about 3,000 people who use this Blum-Bonus – employers and also additional apprentices – and that the Federal Chancellor can report today that there are already 5,000 applications, which is at least a small success story. I assume that a good part of these applications can actually be implemented into additional apprenticeships. - We'll evaluate that. Especially important for me are not only training measures for young people, but also for women. This, of course, is also about re-privileged women who are transferred directly to the job with a reintegration aid. Whoever receives a reintegration aid – a proven instrument – is the one or that is sure of the job, because otherwise there would be no aid plus qualification measures, with which, for example, everything is offered from accounting to technical skilled workers intensive training. - I think we're on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a word on the topic of combi-loan: This is a topic that is new in Austria from this division, but – Herbert Haupt has already pointed out indirectly – is not so new in the matter. First of all we leave the church in the village: Of the € 286 million, just under 5 percent will be spent on this area. So that's a quite manageable order of magnitude. We want to provide 4,000 long-term unemployed people with a job in the low-paid sector that is long-term unemployed and still over 45 years old or under 25 years old. Mr President. In this respect, I do not understand when the SPÖ and also the Greens are so actively arguing against and voting against this combi-loan model. For example, I can remind you of an initiative by the municipality of Vienna under the umbrella of Equal. So far, the “Ways to Work” has been called “Generation 19+” or “Change of track”. This programme is carried out by the municipality of Vienna, MA 15, by the Caritas, by the WAFF – by the Vienna workers' fund, as I believe it is – by the Chamber of Labour in Vienna, by the Volkshilfe and by some other institutions. This programme is precisely about getting jobs in the low-paid sector, including small jobs or part-time jobs, which are longer than 12 months without employment. It should be worked once 15 to 20 hours a week, may be that load weighing will be unloaded, I don't know. In any event, it is about the fact that these social assistance beneficiaries can retain part of their social assistance within the framework of this combination wage model, which is in fact a part of its social assistance. Precisely speaking, this is a combi-loan model, which is carried out in the municipality of Vienna with Zutun and the participation of the Chamber of Workers. So, I ask you: Check this again! Perhaps you can also agree here, because you already do so in the municipality of Vienna and do this obviously good conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9746	I split the last round in 2 minutes. First of all, Mr Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9771	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! I should like to draw my conclusions, thanks to the urgent debate on the Rules of Procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Of course, these refer to the fact that we have heard here that the Qualifications offensive is essentially supported by all parties. In fact, there is nothing to add to this, which highlights the positive and the necessary. In today's debate, the combined wage has been criticized, and I must say in this context that Mr Gusenbauer himself has disagreed. If he had looked at international practices, he would probably have accepted this, because the combination wage model is going on and on in England, Denmark and other countries. There is a corresponding support for workers and employers. The point is to go towards activation, and it is precisely what Mr Gusenbauer literally said: People don't want a course, they want a job. – And with this model, the job-seekers get the job in practice. What is the overall effect of this? – This is a win-win model. There are three Win situations. First: The unemployed person gets more than his work. There is therefore an incentive to use such a model. Secondly, The labour market service saves unemployment benefit. Thirdly, The company will offer a job that he would never otherwise have offered. But the point is: After a year in practice, this is to be a permanent job. Therefore: Throw it. Your concerns about board! Accept the package as a whole! It's right and important!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9819	Mr Silhavy. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9840	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Mitterlehner, I am very surprised at you. Recently, you have still criticized the combi-loan model. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] They meant that the boundaries were too low and more so. Today you have obviously thrown your own concerns over board. I don't know what to think about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: rain down! You don't know each other!]] Federal Chancellor! Two minutes do not leave me the time to address the quality of your speech today, but I say something to you: [[Abg. Steibl: That's too much!]] You mentioned the internal demand here. But that is the wrong way for this combination wage, because people will get income below €1,000, because that is the limit set by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. You cannot therefore expect demand to rise on the Austrian internal market, because what can people with €700 or €800 actually afford? Nothing! [[Abg. May. Worm: Unfortunately!]] How do you want to increase purchasing power? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You yourself have given an example here: Someone gets 598 € emergency aid. With the Combi Lohn model he would have 719 € in the future. – You will not say that for a young person this is the way to the future, how he can create a family and a house stand and the like! Ladies and gentlemen! The Kombi-Lohn is the wrong way, but we still agree to the proposal at third reading, because we believe that the introduction of funds into labour market policy is absolutely necessary. We've been asking her for a long time. They follow this for a year, Minister of the State – we would also have expected more sustainability. But next year You are just as in the years ahead and explain to us why such repair measures are necessary in this dramatic unemployment, as you are not prepared to do something actually, seriously and sustainably against unemployment. They should not rely on alms policy, but really insist that people get employment from which they can live and that the purchasing power is stimulated. The low-paid policy, Mr Federal Minister, is the wrong policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9920	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 2 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9941	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We in Austria can be proud that we have a very high employment rate among women who are also constantly rising. [[Abg. May. Worm: It's alleged!]] The fact is, however, that despite rising employment, unemployment among women is also increasing; it is disproportionately increasing especially among those women who do not finish school. Unemployment is also increasing in typical women's sectors. That is why this government offensive is putting it at the right place, namely in the area of women's qualifications, and I see very positive that women's qualifications are being forced, especially in craft-technical professions and new technologies, and not only in health and care professions, as Mrs Colleague Weinzinger points out in a broadcast. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government is not only investing in research and development to create and secure qualified jobs for the future, but it is now being set up with more than € 108 million very concrete initiatives to train and qualify women. Even if the opposition does not want to be true: The government is very well and fully committed to the concerns of women!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10010	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Moser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10031	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm short for time. Mr Federal Chancellor, unfortunately, those people who deserve little and are dependent on commuting have virtually nothing of your actions! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What you're presenting here is a flick work. – I quote the head of state Erwin Pröll from Lower Austria: This is a flicking work and embarrassing. For example, a seller from Donnerskirchen in Burgenland, who is part-time employed, earns 950 € gross, works in Vienna and commuts daily from Donnerskirchen to Vienna, now nothing from the Pendlerpauschale, and she won't get anything in the future. But it is in this sector that we should help! We should support these women in particular. We should make improvements to the low earners in particular. But you fail, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why I would like to make the following request on behalf of the commuters who deserve little, who really depend on the car and need better public transport: [[Quoted print version removed]] Your model, which you have voted today, goes beyond the needs. We need cheap, cheap, attractive public transport. The rate will now be increased by 5 percent! But the low-paid counterparts do not get anything. And we need, above all, socially graded sales amounts, and not advertising costs, as now in the premise. Federal Chancellor! The 2 cents of the km money do not help the Austrians in the south of Burgenland and in the south of Styria. That's too little! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Unfortunately she is right!]] Allow your solution You will only get these 2 cents from 2007, only then will they get into the money bag of the pendlers. But we already want a fair ecological solution for public transport and, above all, for the low-paid sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10101	The motion for a resolution, which Mrs Moser has just read, has been tabled accordingly, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Spindelegger is next spoken. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10125	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! If I follow up this debate and see that all the groups actually agree with the measures in general, then I do not understand how the impression can be made that the SPÖ believes that in truth nothing new will be decided, and the Greens say that this is just better than nothing. The measures we are taking today do not deserve such destructive criticism! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] On the contrary, this is a concrete investment in jobs in Austria, and we should all put ourselves on that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I should also like to show you how new, efficient and good these measures are, on the basis of a concrete example of this package of measures. – Let’s take this “Project 06” into account: Commercial councillor Egon Blum, who has trained many apprentices himself, has made a proposal as a long-standing experienced entrepreneur. He brought people out of practice and asked: How could we create more teaching places? New to the “Project 06” system is that only new apprenticeships created above the 2004 level will be paid with this €400 per apprentice per month. That's new, and that's exactly what's going on in the direction of increasing teaching places. It is also new that, of course, we are moving from the measures of the Youth Education Security Act, from courses for apprentices to training in the Businesses get. That's so crucial! We need the apprenticeship training in the company and not in any course! The training in the company must be replaced by nothing! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that we are continuing in this direction. New to Commercial Council Blum's approach is also that he travels all over the country and preaches to the entrepreneurs locally. I think we should all take an example of how we as Members can support this. We do this, for example, at ÖAAB Niederösterreich, by carrying out working days in all our subdistricts, where we go from one farm to another and bring this model with all its advantages to the entrepreneur again. – I am convinced that through such initiatives we create apprenticeships! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you say that this is only better than nothing, then you are doing very wrong to Mr Commercial Council Blum! He is committed and carries this idea from place to place, and whoever knows him would have to say a great thank you because he operates this campaign as an apprentice representative of the Federal Government free of charge. He provides all his energy for this, and I am convinced that his proposals will achieve what we need in Austria, namely the creation of more apprenticeships for young people, in order to enable training in the company at the beginning of the career. That's what we need, and we should all stand behind it. I should therefore like to ask you to see this positively.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10195	The next item is the speech by Mr Riepl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10216	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Mr Spindelegger, if you are right to praise Mr Blum – and I would like to say so immediately – then you should also mention that he has created a wonderful model in Vorarlberg with the Training Fund. This would be a model that could be transferred to all of Austria The companies that do not train pay, and the companies that train get something for it. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] That would be a great story! You could think about it. Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing an employment promotion law. The right thing is: 61 500 unemployed will receive additional qualifications. It has already been said how the opinion of Social Democracy is about this: It's high time! It is also a long-standing demand for social democracy, the SPÖ, to invest in the skills here. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I believe that it is necessary and cannot be emphasized often enough – it is necessary to reduce the unemployment rate and the unemployed to take employment-creating measures. We lack them in this template. Any entrepreneur would like to offer more employment, more people employed if the orders were there if the demand were there if the job were there. That is why it is about creating work, creating consumption, then we will do better. Ladies and gentlemen of the other political groups! I believe that the unemployment figures and the German Chancellor's lobby in this discussion today are also forcing us to look a little bit into the past. For example, the Minister of Labour said in 2002: It must remain the goal of every Austrian government to pursue full employment. – Of course, no question at all! But soon after, unemployment has increased. Mr Bartenstein said in June 2004: I hope that, in the foreseeable future, we will be able to discuss again and again about declining unemployment rates. – Result: Unemployment rates have increased. ==References== October: The upturn is there, the labour market is attracting, the unemployment rate is no longer rising. – What is the result? A few weeks later: higher unemployment rates again! So whenever you have said something about this, Mr Federal Minister, a few months later the opposite occurred. From 1995 to 2000, the then Federal Government managed to reduce unemployment by 24 000. Since you, Mr Bartenstein, Minister of Labour, from 2000 to 2005, we have around 59 000 more unemployed in our country. That's the problem! A sentence on the combination wage; it has already been said why we are against it. We will not vote in favour of this proposal in the area of combi-loan. I would like to make the following request from Mr Riepl and Mr Comrades: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to say that the provisions in this proposal concerning service checks are also affected by this amendment. We do not agree with this either.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10335	The amendment tabled by Mrs Riepl, colleagues and others, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10413	As the next speaker, Mr Walch has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10434	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Leutner is not present now; I don't see him anywhere. I have already been somewhat annoyed by the fact that Mr Leutner, in the time of television transmission, claimed that in the future pensions will be reduced by up to 60 percent. Mr. Leutner, throw away the calculators in the ÖGB, they all go wrong, and read exactly! Read, count, think – and then talk first! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Listen first – and then talk!]] Next: Mr Leutner claimed that the tax reform, which represents €1.5 billion for workers this year and 2004/2005, averages only €25. That is also wrong; but then he also said: That's nothing anyway! – Mr Leutner does not know how much 25 € in Schilling are: That's 344 S a month! For him, with his relationship, this is “nothing” – but every employee outside the workbench is happy when he gets more cash on his hand per month at 344 S! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Leutner, I would like to ask you to stick to the truth. I know your merit is high – that of Members anyway – but you shouldn't go here and make it down. [[Abg. Neudeck: The income is high, but not the merit!]] For workers would more often want to receive so much in wage increases during collective contractual negotiations in certain professional groups or in certain professional sectors. Of course, I understand the excitement of the opposition: I'm too many of the unemployed too! But this government is doing everything possible to financially create the framework conditions for it to go uphill. [[Abg. Riepl: Why do we have more and more unemployed people?]] You really have to look at how much money has been invested to boost the economy's infrastructure package in order to achieve €30 billion in road and rail by 2010; tax reform both for workers and for employers; in addition to disability billions; I have already mentioned the infrastructure; for research and for development; against youth unemployment; increase the penalty rate, increase mileage, and much more. [[Abg. Riepl: Why is it then more and more unemployed?]] [[Abg. Riepl: Why is it then more and more unemployed?]] I would ask that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour pass on the pressure to oil companies because they are now making high profits. Either they go down with the price – if the prices for crude oil are lowered, it is in Austria that the price at the gas stations may be reduced only one or two months later, but that must happen immediately! – or a tax will have to be introduced. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... you in the government!]] This profit, which is exhausted there, must be made available to the donor again. So much is done for an employment programme, for investment for young people and apprentices. [[Abg. Riepl: Why is it then more and more unemployed?]] You only need to look at the apprenticeship promotion: 1 000 € per month per apprentice, that is a good thing! In addition, there are from 1. September 2005 once again money, when apprentices are hired, for re-training measures and much more. Therefore, this package, the employment package with an additional 285 million, is again a package in the right direction to boost the economy and reduce the number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10568	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10590	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! Gentlemen on the government bank, you know what I am... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: “Lord” in the number!]] - A number right now? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Yes!]] Have you left the Secretary of State? – I can understand the withdrawal movement politically. What I've been wondering all morning... – Okay, it's not right. [[Calls.]] This morning, of course, I do not just ask myself one thing; in particular, I wonder about the speech offered by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. But one question is already at the heart of the matter, and Mr Bartenstein does not point out his loneliness on the government bank for nothing. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can read it if you didn't understand!]] We have been talking about employment policy over the last few hours, and I wonder: Where is, please, the Minister of Women? Isn't that a topic she'd be dealing with? [[Abg. Failing: He practiceth the anthem!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The issues of employment of women, the situation of women in the labour market, the return of women to work: is that all that the Minister of Women could do? I would urge them to take the issue more seriously and perhaps attend such debates in the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One factor... – Just as weak as your call, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Lens: Tossing applause with the greens!]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's weak!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But it doesn't matter. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: (demonstrativ acclaiming) Yes, exactly!]] One factor that is welcome at all events is that the government has created two areas of problem that it has been pushing out for years. You can say: It's a lot late, but at least you'll finally notice that you have a huge problem in the labour market in the area of youth and women. This is something we have told you for a long time, but it is official, with this employment promotion package, which directly also indicates that youth and women are special target groups. Just one number: Since Chancellor Schüssel took over the government business with the year 2000, the number of unemployed women has increased by 90 000 and the number of unemployed men has fallen by around 26 000. That says something about the orientation of this federal government, and it is really also read across the lines in this package of laws. In the case of the qualification measures which have already been discussed today, in all that is heard and what has also been stated by Mrs Rauch-Kallat in previous discussions, it is obvious that this is her main philosophy: We have a problem with women when they were in the break. Of course, this has nothing to do with the missing childcare places in their eyes, but: No, we then re-orientate them professionally and re-train them; no matter if this was an architect or an office merchant, whatever the woman – or rarely the man – did before the karenz phase, after that he or she learned to change diapers, and so you can re-train them in the care area. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Please note: Women have no genetic responsibility for the care profession! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I cannot take up the fullness of the other provisions, which are now in place and which, in turn, make clear representations for women, in my speaking time. I therefore only take the example of a combination wage, another measure that you are focusing on the low-paid sector and probably mainly on part-time employment, another area in which women are over-averagely affected, and another area that you regulate negatively. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree at least to these repair measures. Above all, I would ask you very urgently, now that you have actually recognized the problems of youth unemployment and female unemployment, to put in a lot more energy and strength to solve the problems than you do with this package of legislation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10800	The amendment by Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10824	Mr President. A comment: I am glad that there is now an objective Presidency again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would have been even more fun if Madam President Prammer were here, but apparently she is at lunch. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Since 1999, i.e. since this government under Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselund with Federal Minister Bartenstein, expenditure in active labour market policy for women and young people has been increased by 60 percent, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Hagenhofer:... like any other president too!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Parnigoni]] The current employment package is now intended to create additional employment opportunities and... [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's no use for all this poison spraying!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Or spread malices!]] I am not in favour of our farmers, our farmers by the SPÖ getting 50 percent less! I'll spread this in the Styria, I'll tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have no idea what they are living on and what you are really carrying through the country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I think that the area of re-entry into the profession is very, very important, and I would just like to comment briefly on a project on the part of Styria. It means: Before the exit, think of re-entry; this project comes from the spring of the ÖAAB women. We will implement this in the Styria. In this context, I would also like to ask for the rejection of the image of the classical women's professions. A rethinking must take place here, in the economy, in the businesses, but also in the women themselves and also in the parents' house. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: In the Federal Government, Mrs Colleague! That's the problem!]] This only brings more skilled workers, but it also means a step further to equal pay and equivalent work. Training and qualification will play an increasingly important role. It is only possible for policy to create framework conditions; decisions are taken in families, in schools, as well as in businesses. I am, of course, – and this is again a positive remark – that the SPÖ and the Greens partly agree with these measures, because they, I believe, now finally recognize how important qualification measures are in many areas. I would also like to thank my Caritas President Franz Küberl from Styria, who has expressed praise and approval for this package of measures. As I am talking about the target group women and young people, I mean that health and care professions are of course important not only for women but also for men, that is quite clear. [[Abg. Reheis: Who will be the new head of state in Styria?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] But all of us will surely have to accept or want to accept these works once in life. Because I mentioned the Styria earlier, I now come back to Styria very consciously, especially in the field of employment. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Especially in the election campaign!]] Just as there are measures and successes at the federal level, there are also these in the Styria, and we have managed a lot with the head of state Waltraud Klasnic. In 2004, Styria was able to see the highest rate of unemployment in Germany and, for the first time, the unemployment rate in Styria is lower than in the Federal average. This is, of course, largely due to the good economic situation in Styria, starting from the car cluster to the wood cluster and much more. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Herberstein or Spielberg?]] [[Further calls.]] With an economic growth of 3.8 percent, Styria is the top leader among the federal states. I wonder why Vienna and Burgenland are the final lights! So I can really say with a calm conscience... – No, I can say with quiet conscience on the basis of a newspaper: [[Abg. Reheis: You heard an interest of the Styrian ÖVP!]] “Economic Country Styria – Numero one in Austria”, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11030	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11052	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It seems that only what the ÖVP or the colleague Steibl sees as objective is objective. I find the beginning of her speech enormous. Yes, it's really great! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is a fact!]] Mr Bartenstein, you mentioned the “Ways to Work” project in your speech earlier. I'd like to make a few things clear. “Ways to Work” I don’t think you can compare in any way with the combi-loan model. You probably know – at least I hope – that the target group at “Ways to Work” has clearly been beneficiaries of social assistance. These are people who are not normally communicated by the AMS, these people were the target group of the “Ways to Work” project. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The main aim of this project was to bring people who have been away from the labour market for a very long time, through the use of pedagogical resources, back to the labour market. So it was about not simply putting them into companies for dumping wages, but it was offered first-class social care, and low-tension work was offered. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Twelve months, the...!]] - No, that wasn't twelve months, that was half a year. A maximum of half a year in a year, they were able to earn little, that was the goal. It was also a goal to get these people out of social isolation, and above all it was the goal to convey these people in SÖBs and GBPs, but not on the first labour market. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... the Kombi-Lohn...!]] That was a nice margin, but it wasn't the most pressing goal. It was in no way the aim of housing people in low-paid sectors and of supporting businesses that offer jobs specifically in these areas. In my opinion, this is a serious difference to the combi-loan model, perhaps we can talk about it another time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... in practice!]] No, that's exactly the way it was! I know very well. I know these projects very well, Minister. A few words about the Employment Promotion Act: A good measure has been adopted in this law indisputably, namely the € 285 million – for a long time a demand from SPÖ. We have not only now come to believe that there should be qualification, but we have been demanding this for a very long time, colleague Steibl! Unfortunately, this package also includes the Combi Lohn model. Mr Bucher said earlier that he did not understand why we are opposed by the SPÖ. There are two dangers I see in this combination model and why we are opposed; one concerns especially young people. There will be a door open in the low-paid sector, from which young people may no longer come out. In my opinion, it would be much better to offer demand-oriented qualification, namely what the economy really needs. My colleague, Mr President, has also pointed out that there are problems in the labour market over and over again. That is why we really need to qualify for needs and not use young people in low-paid sectors. I believe that there should be no experiment with unemployed young people, as Mr Tancsits said in his speech. I see the second danger for women, because it is likely that women in these low-paid sectors will work in particular. This will by no means help to balance income differences. There will be no better opportunities for women to rise, and once again it has not been possible to create jobs for women to live in. In my opinion, a great step back on women's politics! On the basis of this burden policy, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to ask the Members of the Government to: Prove that you do not care about people in Austria and agree to our motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11207	Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Silhavy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11231	Mr President. My dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! We have heard activity reports in the morning. Activity in all honours, but in politics count the result and, without speaking beautifully or black, only the naked numbers. We now have record unemployment, we expect a year with record insolvencies, and we have confirmed what everyone feels, now also through a study, an ever greater “preach”, as this sounds so euphemistic, the wages. The middle class is increasingly attached to the wall. The fact that this is true in other European countries cannot really calm down, but this only allows for the conclusion that misdevelopments, false developments appear to be taking place across countries and must also be corrected. A word for the controversial combination reward. First: The model is now considered to have failed in Germany, where it has been carried out. My predecessor is right: The combination wage, the creation of a low-paid sector cannot be compared with initiatives that involve people who do not bring 100% benefit to the labour market due to disabilities. These are two completely different things. The one thing is of course to be supported, and the other is with good reason – and so I will keep it. You will miss your goal individually, namely core unemployment, which has solidified, with the aim of disbanding people and bringing them back into the regular labour market. And above all, you will take – and this is the particularly unfortunate – dangerous effects with buying and strengthening developments that affect workers. On the one hand: You will miss your goal. Young people under 25 are the target group. Now, however, we hear unisono – and no one disputes this – that low qualifications are making them particularly vulnerable to unemployment. Instead of training young people where they are still going and bringing them to reasonable vocational training, we are strengthening their low qualifications. [[Abg. Oils: Exactly!]] On the other hand, the elderly. The older worker, who has become unemployed at 54 or 55 – how do you imagine that? He is almost 40 years old in working life, has a good qualification, has worked well and is therefore unemployed because he is expensive. Do you want to put the job now on a 600-€ job to do a low-qualified job? They're ruining him mentally! I also think that's inhuman. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] How do you take the naïve certainty that the employer will then increase the wage after a year, so that you can live on it? Rather, with these state-subsidized cheap jobs, which, by the way, the workers themselves finance, which must also be said, you create a labour market that means working some. We now allow these people, with ever new decisions from Parliament, to somehow come to a minimum of existence. – This is not a development that can be supported! [[Abg. Oils: That's the way it is!]] Furthermore, it is surprising – and that should be said – that exactly those with Argusaugen – and they are right with that! – protect the free market from any intervention by the state, now demand state intervention here, where they are certainly not positive. There will be plenty of opportunity tomorrow to comment on this issue, but one thing I would like to say to you from the ÖVP: Her former Obmann Taus, a well-known businessman and also as an industrialist, said something very successful yesterday, about which we should discuss more often and in more depth. He said we didn't pack immigration. We will not need additional workers in the next 20 years. And that's what I'm going to tell you now, and tomorrow I'll start with this: If you don't want to kill the holy cow immigration – namely immigration cheap labor, that's what it's all about – then You never get to grips with this problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11317	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11338	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I particularly welcome the inclusion aid for the recruitment of additional apprentices by 1. September 2005 enters into force – a measure that, I think, really responds to an important problem. We know very well that some young people have the opportunity to attend a higher school, some want to enter the professional life after the polytechnic course, some do not find the opportunities they would like, some are also not gifted for the large university careers. All of this is real life, and we need answers to that. We know very well that young people, especially in puberty, are very vulnerable if they do not grow up in orderly conditions and if they do not have models. You have the best models in school, you have in your professional life. We in the country very often have the problem that apprenticeships do not actually exist in abundance because the businesses are hard to fight. We have the agricultural vocational schools, which today have developed many additional occupations and also a growing number of young people from the country. I am very glad that the federal government is involved in the costs for teachers, because it has a very, very important function in rural areas. In addition, we have about 1,200 apprentices in education in agriculture ourselves. This should not be underestimated, including these farms, gardenings, nurseries, forestry plants, very normal farms, young people, where there is often no other possibility. This is very much accepted. And I am very glad that agriculture has been able to offer the “Blum-Bonus” as part of the “Project 06” since yesterday’s decision of the AMS. In addition, there is the field of agricultural services, the subcontractor, the processors, i.e. the processing plants, which live from the fact that agriculture is half good. As an example, I would just like to mention the RWA and the warehouses. RWA and warehouses employ a total of 1,049 apprentices today. I can assure you that this “blum action” in the field of RWA and warehouses will be applied so that additional apprenticeships are also offered there, because we need them and because, in reality, in rural areas, agriculture is still very often the essential value-added engine and is important for people’s employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to remind you of this on this occasion, because some people think that agriculture is being played around the world and that it could be replaced by other products and imports. Value added in Austria requires agriculture, and agriculture needs good processing plants. We live in this synergies, and this is our beautiful Austria. One thing I liked about the debate in the committee. Mr Moser asked: These many initiatives that the Federal Government is now taking, the money that is being put on the table – who is to implement this? I honestly say to you once to hear that not too little money will be there, but really enough is there, that was a nice comment of the opposition. I thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11395	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11417	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Employment Promotion Act must, of course, be seen in the context of all the other measures put forward by this Federal Government to boost the labour market and promote growth in recent years: Economic recovery packages I and II, growth and location package, tax reform 2004, tax reform 2005, regional employment and growth offensive 2005/2006 – with a total decommissioning of the economy from speech and writing more than €4 billion. With this Employment Promotion Act, we activate another €285 additional million to create new employment opportunities and to secure and promote jobs and training. This active labour market policy has so far benefited our economic location quite effectively and visibly. This is as if the Federal Government were to send a steep pass to the federal states and then the federal states only have to shoot this pass more in the gate. Two worlds show up here: There are those who benefit from this: the Styria with an economic growth of 3.6 percent, Vorarlberg with an economic growth of 2.9 percent, Upper Austria with 2.2 percent. And there are those – remarkably the countries governed by social democracy – who refuse to do so. They let our steep passport run out, so to speak, at the expense of their economy, their growth, their labour market policy: Vienna with a growth of 0.6 percent, Burgenland at 0.5 percent. Corresponding to unemployment: in Vienna 9 percent, in Burgenland the second highest unemployment rate of almost 7 percent. Vienna should be a locomotive for jobs. Vienna is the only comparable cities in Europe, the only agglomeration centre with much higher unemployment than the national level. Why is that so? – Because the Wiener SPÖ operates an exorbitant self-PR – € 65 million a year – while – that’s almost cynical – it spends just € 12.4 million for the apprentice offensive. € 65 million for self-marketing and only € 12.4 million where the Wiener SPÖ is said to see an urgent concern. An overarching bureaucracy – worth €4.4 billion a year – that manages everything extremely expensive and suffocates everything there is in entrepreneurship and ultimately only finances bread and games. This is exactly the policy that is responsible for the fact that Vienna leaves out the opportunities that the other federal states, such as the Styria, make excellent use of. In any case, the Federal Government opens up all the opportunities to all at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11456	The next speaker was Mrs Mikesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11477	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is like life, there are people who are always just sorry, and there are people who act. Ladies and gentlemen from the opposition bank! Leave your ravine and come over to us! Here are the people who act, here are the people who put actions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The 285 million € labour market package is a qualification and employment promotion package for more than 60 000 people, a milestone in growth and employment policy, a motivation package for our companies, for the people in our country. Education and training are now an essential part of a career. Never before have there been so many qualification measures. Never before was so much money used for it. In this context, it is very important that the measures involving the AMS are optimally aligned with the needs of the economy. Another important point is regional support. My motto was and is: Working in the country means living in the country. The promotion of jobs in the regions is a clear commitment from this Federal Government and my rural club. The total funding volume of €1.2 billion is available at AWS by the end of 2006. I keep stressing: Economic development and thus the labour market depend primarily on mood. And the mood in Austria is good. There is no country in Europe that is doing so much to ensure that every youth receives a training place, such as Austria. The JASG training places were constantly increased, 1 000 € apprenticeship premium introduced, the Schnupper teaching, the apprenticeship exchange. 14 teaching places acquirers are on the go every day and of course the “Blum-Bonus” is still coming. So, ladies and gentlemen: Leave the raunzer zone and pick up! Or even better: Help your colleagues in Vienna because Lower Austria is four times better in economic growth than Vienna. If Vienna were to rule like Lower Austria, the Austrian labour market data would be much better.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11520	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11541	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address the flood aid very briefly, because some of them also criticised the mayors. I assume that the current generation of mayors is well aware of the requirements of spatial planning policy and, of course, flood prevention measures. I am convinced that it also depends on local sizes in the municipalities and countries, how far to meet the flood with appropriate measures. I would like to thank our head of state, Haslauer, who has quickly received €10 million for my region in hard negotiations with the Ministry of Finance for Preventing Flood Protection, as appropriate protection measures can give people confidence. Where there is a damage – unfortunately! – there is, of course, also, and that must be said quite openly, which is some benefit. The benefits may be employment policy, economic, even after a flood disaster. I would like to blow into the same horn as my previous speakers did, namely regarding apprenticeships and apprenticeships. It is important that every youth can have a corresponding training place. The Blum project, which has already been addressed a few times today, namely the three-stage training rail, “Project 06” and over-company training centres, and, of course, the measures under the Youth Training Insurance Act are going in the right direction. In the right direction, too, one should pay more attention to the teaching with Matura, the professional maturity test. As far as the Kombi-Lohn is concerned, I think he is encouraging people to go into practice, to work in practice, perhaps to create a corresponding permanent workplace later on. We know that in 2009 we will find more than 8,000 16-year-olds in Austria. So it's a real step, to respond accordingly with this employment package and mobilise the employment market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11584	The next speaker was Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11605	Federal Minister! As regards the youth employment part of this entire Employment Promotion Act, it can be found that: The total package includes approximately € 280 million. It is very gratifying, and no one has said today that about €150 million of this total package for youth employment will be invested. This is also a sign of youth in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are talking about this issue today, we must not forget one thing: This is not the first time youth employment has been on the agenda; Tag JASG, keyword ‘Jobs for you(th)’, apprentice training premium €1 000 per year for every apprentice in the company, reduction of pay additional costs for apprentices, et cetera, et cetera. This is therefore a subject on which the Federal Government is constantly working. Through the “Project 06” and the “Blum-Bonus”, we are taking a right step again, and I believe that if this promotion is not an incentive, then you have to ask yourself: Then what? But we also need to be very clear: The economy is the one that creates these jobs for the youth, but of course also for everyone else, and receives these jobs. It is therefore also necessary to give courage to the economy. If you listen to the discussions, for example, in the state of Styria, you can learn the following: There a certain politician says that he wants to abolish the private sector and reintroduce the nationalists, and another person there speaks of a so-called holding company, but then it has come about that the holding for existing management companies is too expensive, and then says: I am threatening any company that is the future managing company with a state participation! With such statements, we certainly do nothing good for the labour market and the economic location of Austria. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, please send to Mr Voves: With these threats, please stop!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11649	Mrs Hellerer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11670	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to return in my speech on the item on the agenda concerning the flood-offering and reconstruction law. I was very concerned about the description of the regional Members who experienced the flood disaster in 2005, and I can also very well understand it, because I come from the Kamptal, where we also spoke of a “thousand-year flood” in 2002. I come from the community of Grafenegg, a community that was never threatened by floods and in which there had never been a flood disaster; at least never was a registered one. There was also this wave of solidarity, and the Blue Light Organisations, the Federal Army and private helpers and donors have provided comprehensive assistance. We thank them, of course, to this day. The disaster aid is within the competence of the countries, and the Federal Government is also providing rapid and unbureaucratic assistance this time. As well as in 2002, 60 percent of the funds made available by the countries are recovered. In cooperation between the Federal Government and the Federal Republic of Germany, preventive flood protection measures have also been rapidly implemented in Lower Austria. If today is constantly criticized for investing only in technical protection buildings, I would like to reject this now, because projects in the field of federal waterway management and the Water Construction Promotion Act are launched in the Wachau by the Federal Ministry of Innovation and Technology. These are comprehensive projects that need good preparation, because it is of course important to record the data of flood risks and flooding areas, and only on the basis of these foundations can flood protection measures be implemented and efficient warning plans are drawn up. There are land purchase operations at the camp, there are relocation programmes, there are extensive designations of the floods that are now available. This project of sustainable development of the Kamptal river landscape is in progress, and the necessary river reconstructions will be implemented. At present, they are still in the planning phase, but they are gradually being addressed. Thus, in preventive flood protection, both in the technical protection buildings and where it is possible and useful, investment is made in regeneration measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11712	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11734	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I recently visited Northern Germany. Two of the visitors were financial experts who wanted to know – and there was also some recognition in these questions –: How do you do this in Austria with the economy? They were clearly impressed when I reported to them about the measures taken by the Federal Government, such as the economic packages I and II, the reform dialogue on growth and employment, and the employment and growth offensive, together with the countries and, of course, the tax reform. With regard to youth employment and apprenticeship training, there is an exemplary work; I just mention two examples: the Youth Training Code and the Government Commissioner Egon Blum, whose main concern is to show future prospects for young people and, above all, to improve the image of dual training. There is also a special package of measures for apprentices in Lower Austria. There for the eighth time an extended apprenticeship reception network is offered. New to this is a flexible professional orientation of two to six weeks to better respond to young people's desires and strengths and weaknesses. In three stages, a total of 1,000 places are available for apprentices who, despite all their efforts and efforts, have not found an apprenticeship. On the other hand, the country itself sets up teaching posts. For example, 20 teaching places will be available per year in the national pensioners' and care homes. As we have already heard, there are special programmes for women. There is the model of the combination wage, and a focus is also on health and care professions. If you consider these qualifications and employment measures quantitatively, you can see that more than 60 000 people will benefit, more than half of them young people. The additional funds for this amount to € 285 million. – A thank you to the Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11782	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11803	High house! As a Burgenländerinde, I would like to thank both our Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government for the 10 percent increase in the pendler fee and for the increase in the kilometre to 38 cents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] More than 42 000 citizens have lost their lives. They often get up at three or four o'clock in the morning, sit up to six hours a day in their car or train, come home very late, and I don't even want to remember that there are mothers there. When in 2000 Hans Niessl entered the Burgenland with the promise to reduce the number of commuters, we still had 37,000 commuters. Today there are 42 000 commuters with 260 000 inhabitants. But what would be the alternative for these comrades, ladies and gentlemen? – The alternative would, of course, be to create jobs in the Burgenland. With the €658 million we have put into the sand at the Bank Burgenland, many jobs would be created, a total of 10,000 new full-time jobs, the experts tell us. But the SPÖ head of state and his Council of State created only a very important job, namely the one for the former bank Burgenland chief Stagl, with a director at a SPÖ-near insurance company. A truly soft landing for an ejection! [[Abg. Reheis: And what did the Hirschmann get? - Bravo, Hirschmann! Bravo, ÖVP!]] As a finish, this man has 415,884 € – that's almost 6 million schilling! – get, probably as a thank you for putting a lot of speculation and swap shops in the sand of €300 million. A burger worker must work 20 years for this, with a net salary of 1,500 €! Unfortunately, only very few Burgenian workers per month do this. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Look at how this has developed in Lower Austria!]] That is why we are very grateful for having our Federal Chancellor and this federal government that we can count on. The shuttle fee is very important and came at exactly the right time. From the country, the Burgenländer can hardly be expected, for the SPÖ is re-purchasing the money, for example for high-gloss brochures. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Look out, you're sitting in the glasshouse yourself, Mrs. Colleague!]] By many hundred thousand euros, election brochures are presented to the “NEWS” and the “FORMAT” and many other newspapers; of course, there is little left for the Burgen-based commuters. The ÖVP in Burgenland with its head of state Mag. Franz Steindl is concerned with business, growth and employment. – The SPÖ in Burgenland is mainly about football. Ladies and gentlemen, if you drive through Burgenland, you can see this very clearly at the election posters.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11888	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11909	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for employees in Austria, because this employment package is absolutely the right one. [[Abg. Riepl: But a black day for the unemployed!]] 285 million € or, in order to keep this in mind, around 4 billion S will be used to combat unemployment, and this will in turn be spent particularly on youth and women's employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A total of 61,000 people are removed from unemployment through targeted qualification measures. In particular, apprentices, young people, re-enters and the profession of the entire health and care professions are encouraged – an important and right measure for our labour market, ladies and gentlemen! Another point I would particularly like to highlight is the increase in pendler fees and kilometres of money. For the second time in two years, the shuttle fee will be increased, and this is a special concern for me because I come from a very strong Pendler district, a district in which about 70 percent of the employees are commuting. So a total of 25 percent for the commuters: 15 percent through the tax reform, 10 percent through today's submission. What does that mean in numbers? What is the additional tax relief in euro per donor per year? – For example, at the large shuttle fee from two kilometers of 57 €, from 20 kilometres 229 €, from 40 kilometres 441 € and from 60 kilometres 563 € or about 7 500 S per year. That's not nothing or too little, but that's a lot of money for our commuters, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, the purchasing power of workers in rural areas will also be strengthened because of the fact that we find a growing number of commuters there. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Government very much for the inclusion of this important ÖAAB request and can therefore be decided here today in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11956	Next item is the report by Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11979	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to remind you once again of what was at the beginning of this debate, namely the flood compensation law. Imagine many of my colleagues' mayors and, above all, the people who woke up at 6 p.m. on Sunday, then opened the door and came across the water. There is a panic on a Sunday, where after a night when you might have dreamed of something beautiful, you got up well – and then the shock! There is a mood of disaster that first passes to the family and then to the whole community. The whole region is almost paralyzed by horror and fear. It only sounds like the phone. Thanks be to God all the forces in this country know only one thing: to make immediate use, to provide first aid, especially the voluntary fire brigades, but above all also the federal army and then, of course, the neighbors. There is then great solidarity to be felt. It's no question, then, whether it's Sunday or early, whether you're asleep or not: Of course, it is packed and done great things. The damage that this has prevented, ladies and gentlemen, is in no way related to what we are doing in order to maintain these security organizations, both with equipment and with training. Annual training is also necessary. The removal of such damage would otherwise not be eligible for funding. That is why I would like to thank, as mayor, for many mayors, especially in Styria, for their immediate action, still very cordially, with our wife, Mr Waltraud Klasnic, who has taken immediate action. [[Abg. Thank you, Waltraud!]] This is not just about rural areas, there has also been a disaster scenario in Graz, and the Grazers know what it means to have help quickly, and that has been guaranteed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Thank you, Waltraud!]] That's what you have to say. Mr President, I should like to thank You're Steirer, too. I think we are simply guilty of solidarity to our fellow citizens, to say thank you when it is necessary and to speak of happiness when it has not happened. [[Abg. Gradwell: I always thank fellow citizens, but why, for the sake of heaven, is the country's main wife?]] Much has already been said about the Employment Promotion Act by my previous speakers. Unfortunately, my speaking time is too short to go into it. Throughout Europe there is flaw, only in small Austria something is moving. The figures can be seen, the figures are quite comparable. The only difference from the rest of Europe is politics. Policy is different, because this policy has not prevented us from constantly tackling and implementing reforms. I am very grateful to this Federal Government under Chancellor Schüssel for these reforms, otherwise we would not be standing here today, and especially our Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Martin Bartenstein. There's a lot of things going on. Imagine we're in another country. We can be happy to be in this country – and a warm thanks for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12049	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12072	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After a massive reduction in the TV speaking time, of course, I did not have the opportunity to argue even more widely in favour of the donors and also to make a broader request. I'd like to get this straight and quick. We also intend to make real redundancies for the commuters, namely, that justice should also be paid in the form of kilometre money and the penalty fee, and above all in view of the price situation caused by the refinery damage due to the natural disasters, that price developments in the fuel sector should seek a policy that goes away from oil. Only in this way can we make sure that the counterparts really come cheap, so at affordable prices at their jobs. That is why I refer to the request that has already been distributed; it is relatively extensive. He makes it clear to you, above all, that injustice is far too little aware of you, as I think. At present, we have free amounts that call you a pendler's fee, free amounts that are well-deserving loosers, which simply go in the low wage area. People don't have any of that. Not for nothing, Mödling is the richest district in Austria, and at the same time there is the highest proportion of students of Pendlerenpauschalen. These are the people who have partly built a villa in the green and who, of course, can make good use of the depreciation possibilities due to their income. Only those who pay no taxes or little taxes have virtually nothing of the existing penalty, and we need to change that. In the same way, we need equal opportunities for public transport. Therefore: Please take this comprehensive motion for a resolution as a start to carry out a general reform in this area, under the great title “Road of oil” also in the transport and mobility sector, in the sense of the commuters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12113	The motion for a resolution presented by Mrs Moser in his key points is tabled in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed to Members, annexed to the Stenographical Protocol and shall be deemed to have been filed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12204	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12225	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In the short term, I would like to say the following in the dense programme: a German Chancellor who cannot be overcome in his nervous state, much consensus on measures that are too late and too weak. – A brief explanation of our voting behaviour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] We do not agree with the Kombi-Lohn in this form, and I also say why we do not agree from an entrepreneurial point of view: Those businesses that employ people throughout the world – and these are our SMEs – where people not only find training, a teaching centre, but also have a permanent job, do not come to the advantage of this model. The electric dealer needs his people. But the electrosupermarket on the outskirts of the city can divide it. – Not even an abuse protection is available in your model! – He takes the auxiliary forces and is also subsidized. If you had used the money and had received these special recruitment aid, we could have gone the way together. They didn't want that! I would like to talk briefly about those points where we see the other problems. First point: Kilometres' money. – Does the Secretary of State read what the driver clubs have to say to him? – 43 cents would have been necessary! He has become completely pale in the committee when I told him to try to pay the full cost of his van for a few months and take the kilometre money for it. In fact, he would see that he would not come out with this money at all for the journeys of his service provider Republic of Austria. If the Secretary of State had learned – he is already speaking again – he would have noticed that at least 43 cents would be necessary. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Well!]] We're glad that there's an increase at all, but it's been too long and it's too late. Second point: the pendler's fee. – There were 15 percent of the compensation last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Now you come with 10 percent! You should have increased to 15% last year! – Again too little and too late. In this sense I say: Until the National Council election, you won't do the pace that the country needs. The change will then be a relief for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12278	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. – I ask you to take the seats! Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law that amends a flood-offering and reconstruction law in 2005, the Civil Fund Act, the Federal Finance Act 2005, the Federal Financial Act 2006 and other laws and provides for special measures for victims of natural disasters, including the title and receipt in 1094 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1094. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. (E 135.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Gartlehner, colleagues on sustainable disaster prevention in conjunction with effective security research to reduce disaster damage. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the draft federal law granting a court exemption in connection with flood aid in 2005, including the title and receipt in 1095 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading, for a sign on this point. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law which lays down an employment promotion law and the labour market policy financing law, the unemployment insurance law, the labour market service law and other laws, in 1075 of the supplements. Mr Riepl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the legislative proposal affected by the amendments and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament, Mr Riepl, Mrs Oellinger, Mr Van den Broek, and Mr Van den Broek, together with the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, have rejected this point. 2 C. 2 as well as a resulting amendment to the reference number. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. I'll just let you know what I'm doing. 2 C. 2 as amended by the Government template. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. That's what it's supposed to be. Mr Riepl, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 2 C. 3 introduced. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority, and that is why it is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, and that is what is accepted. The Members of Parliament, Mr Riepl, and Mr De Keersmaeker, have deleted this point. 3 as well as the resulting modification of the article designation. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on the motion for a resolution. 3 C. 1 introduced. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. I'll just let you know what I'm doing. 3 C. 1 vote in the version of the Government template. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the majority. This is therefore accepted. The Members of Parliament, Mr Riepl, Mrs Oellinger, Mr Van den Broek, and Mr Van den Broek, together with the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, have rejected this point. 4 as well as the resulting modification of the article designation. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. That is not the case. I'll just let you know what I'm doing. 4 to vote in the version of the Government template. Whoever stands for it, I ask for signs of consent. – This is the majority. This is therefore accepted. Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for an amendment to delete this kind of amendment. 13 para. 12 in Art. 6 to the content. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of this. – This is the majority. That's what it's supposed to be. The Members of Parliament, Mr Riepl, Mr Van Miert, Mr Oellinger, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van den Broek, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert, Mr Van Miert 7 as well as the resulting amendment to the article designation. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are here. – It is the minority. That is not the case. I'll just let you know what I'm doing. 7 as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority. That's what it's supposed to be. Mr Riepl, Members of Parliament, and Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, have a similar amendment on Rule. 9 C. 1 introduced. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority. That's what it's supposed to be. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given your approval to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the grant of a uniform national heating aid. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] – It is still the minority. That is rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Income Tax Act and the Travel Fees Act, including the title and receipt in 1066 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority. That's what it's supposed to be. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading, for a sign on this point. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues in the field of social and environmental emergency measures for commuters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on the effective discharge of commuters through greater justice in the case of kilometres of money and the penalty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Murauer: Too late!]] – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[14:10:02]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1063, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Performance of an Austrian Contribution to the 10th General Refill of the Funds of the African Development Fund (ADF-X) (1098 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1067, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Performance of an Austrian Contribution to 14. Refill of the funds of the International Development Organisation (IDA-14) and the Trust Fund for Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC Trust Fund) (1099 d.a.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1072 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the performance of an Austrian contribution to the trust fund managed by the International Monetary Fund for low-income developing countries affected by natural disasters (1100 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12395	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12422	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In 2000, the UN decided that it is an overarching objective of the State community to reduce the poverty of people in the world by half by 2015. Many other subordinate targets have also been formulated. As it looks, we can actually achieve the greatest of all objectives, namely reducing poverty to half. We do not achieve this by means of development aid, but we achieve it through the fact that more people have work and their own income through liberalised markets, especially in Asia, China and India, and that poverty falls. It looks different in other regions of the world. Sub-Saharan Africa, for example, has a completely different trend. That's where the poverty rate rises. More and more people live below the poverty line. More than €330 million the Austrian Federal Government will make available for the next few years to help in particular these poorest countries in the world. The International Development Fund grants guarantees and non-sensory loans to the poorest countries, more than half of them to sub-Saharan Africa. Austria will therefore make a significant and significant contribution to the achievement of the Millennium Goals. Another component of this €330 million is further debt in the HIPC Trust Fund, and – which is particularly important after the tsunami disaster – there will be a new fund, a new instrument, to be able to provide rapid and unbureaucratic assistance after natural disasters, especially in the poorest countries. This incredibly high contribution – in Schilling it is almost 4.5 billion Schilling – that Austria contributes will also be fully accountable for the ODA of Austria and will nevertheless not result in us reducing bilateral project assistance and bilateral project work with the poorest countries in the world. I think that's a very good thing. Please support us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12464	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12486	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Poverty is the greatest weapons of mass destruction. This is the result of the recent UN World Development Report. 1.2 billion people have to get out with less than a dollar every day. That's a fifth of the world's population. Every three seconds a child dies in this world. 47 million children will not attend school in 2015. You have to imagine that! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is increasing. In Africa alone – it was said earlier – south of the Sahara, the situation for 100 million people has also worsened since 1990. This corresponds to the population of Germany, Holland and Austria together. We will therefore, of course, agree with these three laws. But one thing I would like to keep at this point: The alleged federal majority party ÖVP with alleged Christian-social roots does not hold much of the saying “given is more blessed than take” because while Norway, Sweden and Denmark have long achieved the goal of spending 0.7 percent of GDP on development aid by 2015, Austria is actually scratching by 0.24 percent at the level of one third of this amount. That is why, I think, there is a very great need for follow-up. The government's been asleep. An important point in this context, which can be helped by countries, is that we are taking advantage of all the possibilities that we can make progress in democratisation, in the deliberations of justice in these poor countries. This is a fundamental pillar for future welfare development. We all – all the parties present here – need, I think, more courage and more will to fight poverty. Poverty must not remain the greatest weapons of mass destruction! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12526	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12547	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I was now positively surprised that Mrs Hakl, a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, also spoke. When I looked at the list of speakers a few hours ago, there were only opposition speakers to this item on the agenda, and I had already thought: Aha, is that the sign of how little important the government parties are on this issue? As I said, I am glad that at least Mrs Hakl has spoken. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was a misunderstanding!]] What I already think is ironic is that Mrs Hakl is asking the opposition parties for support. In one of the three laws there was a clear blockade by the coalition partner BZÖ at the Council of Ministers two, three weeks ago. That is because the increase of the IDA-cridite for the International Development Organisation was blocked by the ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ – who exactly it was – in the Council of Ministers with the argument that they would first want to do something for the commuters before something should be done for the poor in other countries. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] – I thought that was very strange. So: The support, Mrs. Hakl, is looking for you first at the government partner, from our side you have her on these points anyway. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: We already have them!]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To this end, I would like to say: Especially the head of the party of the BZÖ makes himself particularly popular in Carinthia with the fact that he has been for years... – Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider. [[Abg. Oils: Who is that?]] He has not paid off the funds that Carinthia decided unanimously for development cooperation many years ago. Get the support from your federal coalition partner and not from us – this is addressed to the ÖVP – and you have it anyway! To the contents: I would like to forward to you, as we have said, that there is agreement on all three points. I would like to comment on the following point: I would be interested to try to influence the IMF and the various international financial institutions, as did the Ministry of Finance, but also political concerns and the criteria for granting loans in this context. This is a matter of principle. In this area, it is still the case that many detailed conditions are required by the international financial institutions. It is still not the case, for example, as one of the British development organisations does. This makes a so-called Results-Based Approach, which looks: Are these coming to the promised result? If so, it does not matter to us what means they can achieve this! – This is not what the international financial institutions are doing. I think it would make sense, from an Austrian point of view, to support such a thing, namely, to get away from this micromanagement, so: We determine in detail how this country must fulfil the conditions we impose! It is perhaps less important to us whether they achieve it, but it is more important to us whether they fulfil the details. This swirling towards results and checking whether they have achieved them – and with that the countries themselves can check – would make much more sense than this micromanagement, which the financial institutions still operate. Finally, Austria has a voice in the various bodies. So do something to move the kind of conditionalities in a different direction! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also important to me to say: Especially around the Millennium Summit, voices were very often voiced, which said it had already been sent so much money to Africa in the last decades and it would have been useless for everything to do without paying any more anyway, they would have to do it themselves, and so on. Of course, money is not all. – We know that very well. Much remains to be done – away with the financial resources – in the areas of good governance, the creation of the rule of law and real democratisation. But that also means that there is enough pressure and support in the field of foreign policy – in this combination! – to the governments and also to support the respective civil societies in order to achieve this. – That, of course, is part of it, but, as I said, money alone is not, but it is not without money either. It is just one of the richest countries in the world – and we have heard recently that Austria is part of it – that it is very likely, without any blockade intentions of a government party to actually say yes to these increases, to support them and, of course, to look at how Austria can achieve the 0.7 percent target in the coming years – 0.7 percent of gross national income for development cooperation. I know that the plan exists to achieve it, but a plan, such as – i.e. a level plan – is not yet available on the part of the government parties. I hope that such a one will actually be presented in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12648	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12669	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Much of our EZA funds go into multilateral development cooperation, much of it back into the international financial institutions. What is missing, however, is the parliamentary debate on the contents that we represent there. Although there are informal discussions between the representatives of Austria at the Bretton Woods institutions and our representatives, the Minister of Finance has not yet been able to look at the subcommittee for development policy in the entire legislative period. - That's a shame. It's clear: Discussing these things is complex. It is not easy to drive an Austrian line, you have to find compromises. Nevertheless, I am simply lacking something like an Austrian strategy that is directed against a purely neoliberal economic policy, which is directed against the fact that liberalisations and privatisations are regarded as the sole panacea – what they are not – and that really focuses on poverty reduction and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Last weekend the autumn meeting of the international financial institutions took place in Washington, and there were also initial decisions on the wishes made by the G7 in Scotland in July, namely to clear the poorest countries. This is an important and good step, but I emphasize: It can only be a first step. This is about $40 billion, which is intended to contribute to debt reduction over five decades and across 18 countries. Of course, 40 billion dollars are very A lot of money, but if I distribute it to 50 years and to 18 countries, this amount of money is quite relative. 40 billion dollars are only a really small fraction of all debt that the 60 poorest, most indebted countries have in total. In addition, only three figures: African countries alone pay $15 billion each year in debt services to the North; Indonesia spends a quarter of its annual government income only to provide debt services; and all developing countries together spend 100 million US dollars every day for debt repayments. This means that there is hardly any sustainable development on this basis and that it is very difficult to reach the MDGs, that it is very difficult to enable people in these countries to live in a decent way and that poverty reduction remains an illusion over many parts. Another thought on the composition of international financial institutions: The democratic dimension is also, in part, really problematic. The representatives of the poorest countries are very under-represented, and I am sure that the conditions for new loans or debt payments would be quite different if more developing countries were represented in the bodies. It would not only be so rigorously enforced privatization and liberalisation, but it would probably be at the heart of the fight against poverty. In my opinion, this and a lot else would be worth discussing in detail and content in the subcommittee for development policy. I invite Mr Finz State Secretary to judge to his Minister that it would be fine if we could sit down before the spring meeting of the financial institutions and perhaps find common answers too many questions. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12737	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12758	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is a four-party consensus about the agreement on this subject. Similarly, as I can assume, there is consensus that the priority objective of any development cooperation and development aid policy – whether in the case of cash benefits or in the transfer of know-how – must be the way to self-righteousness, independence and self-responsibility. However, it needs to be noted – Mr Lunacek and Mr Penny Bayr have mentioned – that developing countries are still being prompted by too many donor countries and financial institutions and are obliged to implement mainly capital-oriented liberalisation and privatisation policies in their countries. I am referring only to the scarce area of water supply: 1.2 billion people in our world have no access to clean water; 6,000 people die daily from the consequences of the consumption of contaminated water; and 80 percent of all diseases on our earth are due to contaminated water. In this context, it would be not only interesting – the Secretary of State will unfortunately not be able to fulfil it – but also the responsibility of the Austrian State. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. However, development cooperation and development assistance also have something – and this must not be forgotten! – to deal with the political climate in the so-called donor countries. If, especially in these days, we are confronted with political forces in Carinthia – which are still present in our Republic – the images of enemies and the causation of people from other countries in order to maximize votes for random elections, then I must say that Austria and all of us together have a long way ahead of us in the sense of the implementation of the political culture of undivided human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12806	Mr Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12828	Mr President. High house! The Austrian Ministry of Finance takes development aid very seriously. We will reach a development aid rate of 0.44 percent of the gross social product this year. We're above the average. There have been values among social democratic finance ministers that have amounted to about half of them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12862	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12899	Mr President. High house! On today's agenda, there are three laws that focus on financial support for the lowest income countries in Africa. That is why all these laws were also supported by all parties. - I think that's reasonable. I also think it is reasonable that Austrian contributions rise to all three funds. This is not insignificant. With regard to the African Development Fund, 38 African countries will receive funds from the Development Fund which the African Development Bank could not have afforded at market interest rates. This is very positive, especially since all these funds have now been evaluated and an independent Commission has taken the view that extraordinary work has been done, in particular as regards the establishment of a more efficient organisation, the formulation of new policies and strategies and the improvement of control mechanisms. This is, as has been said, very positive, and thus, especially with the HIPC Trust Fund, people in a total of 81 countries who represent over 2 billion – that is, a large part of the world’s population – can be effectively helped. With regard to the Austrian contribution to development cooperation or its increase of 0.23 percent, where it is currently – and thus far below the EU average – at a target of 0.51 percent in 2010, this is positive. I hope that it will remain, and I am also pleased that the opinion of BZÖ-Chair Haider and Klubobmann Scheibner has not been enforced to block any increase in the development aid budget until there is, in principle, a discharge of drivers. [[Abg. Scheibner: How do you get the stupid thing you say?]] The fact that this form of junk animation did not prevail is positive, because this would have caused considerable image damage, and it would also have caused serious damage to the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Scheibner: You also believe everything the Ministry of Finance claims!]] In this respect, it is certainly good that you have not been able to enforce yourself in this regard within the government coalition. Of course, there is already a lot about your basic attitude to development aid policy and development cooperation, but since you yourself are very much in need of development, this attitude is also quite understandable.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12962	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12983	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! All my previous speakers have already made very interesting speeches, as we could hear. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not everyone!]] – Well, it was quite interesting to listen, Mr. Cot! I can only reinforce the arguments put forward here, and actually I believe that we should really be careful that these funds are being supported even more, because there are rules that really allow us to pursue development aid policy. This kind of policy should also be strengthened. It is true that earlier the development aid contributions were lower, but there have never been as many poor people on this globe as they are now, and that is why I think this increase is well justified. In particular, more conscience and greater sensitivity should be displayed by the wealthy countries of the world. I therefore believe that we are making a good decision to take these decisions unanimously and wish me this more intense debate, which my colleague Bayr has already mentioned today, in the interests of a more just world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13018	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13039	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A great deal has already been said about the content and objective of the recovery of the African Development Fund. The fact is that the funds needed to counter hunger and distress must be made available in all cases. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The fact is, however, that: If we achieve something through these development aid projects or by replenishing the African Development Fund, then perhaps people who suffer from the greatest poverty will be able to receive it on the basis of projects in their home countries, so that they can do their own by hand to prepare and build their own country, so that people will also be given the opportunity to care for themselves. Mr Finz State Secretary – and that is my request: It is therefore essential that Austria should act as an explicit requirement in the allocation of funds by the International Development Fund to comply with the ILO's minimum labour standards, because otherwise – if the funds flow to other areas – we will not achieve the goal that people themselves can properly challenge their livelihood. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13079	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13100	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek and also Mr Posch – I know you, Mr Posch, are teachers, but the teachings should at least correspond to the facts – have claimed that we would have blocked the increase of development aid funds in the Federal Government. They have even assumed that we are in line with some basic policy view. This is, of course, completely incorrect, and we have, as you can see, without any delay not only in the Council of Ministers, but also here in Parliament, presented and decided on this important increase. [[Abg. May. Posch: Then the Minister of Finance said something wrong!]] But you are right that it was, of course, our line – and that was not easy to enforce at all – that, in view of the high fuel prices, some of these funds should also be granted to drivers as a relief. That's what I said at the time: If you can do this necessary increase now, I believe that you can also decide on this relief for the drivers. I am very happy and very proud that we have decided on this discharge for the drivers today – and now the increase for development aid funds. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: This junk animation is exactly what we...!]] These are two important measures. There was no blockade and no junkim. Once on the agenda in the Council of Ministers – with some other items on the agenda – the Vice-Cancellor could not be present, but it has gone away without delay. I'll tell you: Not only do I recognise this, but it is a very necessary task and responsibility of the states community of the rich countries to ensure that in the poorest countries at least the greatest need is eased, Mrs Lunacek! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] For the reason alone – and for this we confess – that, of course, the balance between the poor and the rich cannot and should not happen through large migration movements and the resulting conflicts, but through this support, so that people in their home countries can have a semi-secure social existence – if not in prosperity, then at least without hunger – and therefore a migration is not necessary. There is a lot to be missed, especially in crisis regions – I have often mentioned this – in Afghanistan, for example, where there have been large programmes, where a large number of aid organisations have been located – at least as long as the situation has aroused public attention. After a few months and a few years it is very difficult to notice. We see there and also in other regions that we are again moving into a problematic situation. I think it is also important how the funds are used, whether sustainability is being respected and whether the principle of self-help really is the priority. If all of this is achieved and if these principles are respected, even if the use of funds is controlled, then that is not only to be supported, but it is also an absolute necessity in terms of stability in crisis regions and in the world as a whole!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13165	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law on the performance of an Austrian contribution to the 10th general replenishment of the funds of the African Development Fund, including the title and receipt in 1063 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Now we are voting on the draft federal law on the performance of an Austrian contribution to 14. Refill of the International Development Organisation and the Trust Fund for Highly Indebted Poor Countries, including Title and Entry in 1067 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law on the performance of an Austrian contribution to the trust fund managed by the International Monetary Fund for low-income developing countries affected by natural disasters, including the title and receipt in 1072 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[14:40:37]] 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (891 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Lithuania on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes (1038b.b.) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (892, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Georgia on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth, including Protocol (1039, e.g.) 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1061, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes, including Protocol (1097, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13266	We now come to points 8 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. As the only speaker in the debate, Mr Magistrate has been present. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13293	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We too will agree with the three double taxation agreements here, but with more and more reluctances. Why? And why are we dealing with this now? – Because I hope that the Committee will have a different treatment culture on these issues. There is, in a way, a parallel to the investment protection agreements or the issues that have just been discussed, which is very serious. We note that either out of lustlessness – I understand, Secretary of State, that there is an occasional loss of pleasure in this alliance – or because of indifference or because of certain tactics of concealment, we do not want to give answers. We have – admittedly: not always, but increasingly – also questions about the double taxation agreements. We will explain to you a few – they are all not answered at all: For example, the agreement to avoid double taxation in the area of income taxes and the protocol with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan would be mentioned. - All right. It is often not clear to us in what order the various projects are in. It would be interesting to know who would actually encourage this if we were to vote on it here: Are the Austrian company, are they Pakistani, or both? [[State Secretary Dr. Finz:... both!]] There is nothing against the idea of avoiding double taxation, but there are already some interesting questions, for example, in connection with the so-called group taxation that we are now planning, which could have a financial impact. That's not so insignificant! Meanwhile, losses, if they arise in Pakistan, can be easily and easily transferred to companies that still have their tax headquarters in Austria, if they so wish, and the question is whether these double taxation agreements have an effect. Of course, one could sit down and study the translations for days, but one would also like to think that if this is a government template, such things can be answered by a ministry in the committee if one asks there as a Member of this House. I'm just telling you, I'm expecting this in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's just related to other questions! I say that with group taxation, it is not without it, because the idea may be a good one, but the problem that arises there immediately is that we are also putting risk incentives for Austrian companies to invest precisely somewhere in the world – with completely reduced risk for these companies, because if it goes wrong, we are reorganising profits here, so to speak, because we have decided – in this way, by the way, by the way, so far, unique in Europe. – So explain to us whether you recognize a connection there! But there are, if we are trying to raise such questions, in reality, even more dramatic, namely, in terms of financial flows at all. I admit that this is not directly linked to the double taxation agreement, but indirectly very well. What we do not do for measures – I would have said almost: for a theatre – when it comes to carrying out so-called terrorist action! – Well, there’s something going on! Collaborator Pilz will explain to you even more often that the attitude of mass data may not be the appropriate instrument, but there you develop activities, there you have energy! There the border between the preservation of the freedom of individuals and the alleged, or by me, actual protection of a generality from alleged or actual terror is very much exceeded. But where it is really hard to control the international financial flows – possibly to prevent the financing of terror – where are the activities? – The very simple money laundering regulations have always progressed in Austria only because the EU has long been using the so-called press. - That's the state. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Are you talking for 20 minutes now?]] We will now have to talk about these international tax agreements and the treatment of international financial flows also by the Republic of Austria. And if you do not do so in committee, we will speak more often here. We recognise, however, that double taxation agreements are basically useful – precisely to avoid unwanted double taxation. But next time, Mr Finanz-State Secretary, I expect to have another debate or even another level in the committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13355	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. – I ask you to take the seats! We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Republic of Lithuania to avoid double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets in 891 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with Georgia to avoid double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets and the Protocol in 892 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to avoid double taxation in the areas of income taxes and Protocol 1061 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. [[14:47:52]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 467/A (E) by Mr Fritz Grillitsch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch, colleagues and colleagues on a new, impulsive rural development programme (1017 d.a.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 462/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the preparation of the new rural development programme for the period 2007 to 2013 (1016 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13436	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13463	Mr President. Federal Minister! The debate is based on the development of rural areas, and there are very massive differences of definition, I believe. In the present proposal Grillitsch, Scheuch is talking about a “impulsed programme for development”, and then the EU text takes over this three-pillar model. What I like very much in the preamble of your request is the wording “Increasing the quality of life in rural areas”. – Great! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That sounds like consent, Mr Gaßner!]] However, if you look at the application in detail, then there is a suspicion – it is not just suspicion, it is confirmed – that this is only about the development and promotion of agriculture. [[Abg. Grill: The rural area!]] Not in rural areas, Mr Grillitsch, but exclusively in order to promote agriculture. If one reads the press releases of the Minister, he says: Well, the farmers are the backbone of the rural area! ,then, okay, that's your opinion, Minister, just: [[Abg. Grill: Is that not true?]] [[Abg. Grill: That's not true? Are you saying that's not true?]] What do you think of a backbone that gets 40 units less every day? More than 4,000 farmers, farmers a year close! – Minister of State! So I think we have to do something to maintain quality of life in rural areas. And if you continue to say, Federal Minister, that rural development is the renewal of the village, this is, of course, very, very limited, because: [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Also!]] We won nothing from a paved church square and an asphalted village square in the rural area. – But you probably had to say that because this is a big project of your uncle. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats define rural areas differently. We define the rural area over all the people living in this rural area – and these too have the right and the right to quality of life. Of course, these are the farmers, but these are also employees and workers, these are children in rural areas, these are pensioners in rural areas. They all have a right to quality of life, they have a right to public structures. But what are you doing? [[Abg. Eder: Lock! Lock everything up!]] They shall close the public institutions. They close the post offices, they close the police stations – you have to say now –, they close the district courts. [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP]] All of this is locked up – essential infrastructure in rural areas! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] They don't care about jobs outside the flatland. And he is also in urgent need of the auxiliary farmer, this job! [[Abg. Grill: The SPÖ... Work Killer Party!]] People in rural areas need public transport connections, ladies and gentlemen, they need proper roads, of course also freight routes. [[further ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] But what are you doing? - They don't care about it. [[Abg. Grill: Work destroyers on the floor!]] For example, we need functioning schools in rural areas. We need baby-care facilities in the afternoon. [[Abg. Grill: Work destroyers on the floor!]] As an example, take only once what you have just decided regarding afternoon care facilities in schools: 15 children must be it so that they can pay for a few hours at all – five teachers' hours and ten care hours. [[Abg. Grill: Work destroyers on the floor!]] Well, show me the school in the rural area that brings this together! Don't people there have the right to afternoon care, ladies and gentlemen? This is quality of life in rural areas?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Grillitsch:... much more than you believe!]] – And this goes further on in terms of health care and local care. All these are quality points also in rural areas. And what else are you doing? – There are so ‘a comical structure’ in rural areas, these are rural communities. They're ruining you financially! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Tell the Burgstaller!]] Take them away from the financial base, and with that you also avoid the possibility of being creatively active there. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Your approach to rural development will ultimately remain: a few large, supported farmers. But I'll tell you one thing: They also need quality of life in rural areas! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:53]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13688	Before I call the next speaker, I announce that Mr Magistrate. Kogler, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee on the procurement of Eurofighter fighters. There was no need to hold a debate on this. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be taken after completion of the agenda. Mr Grillitsch has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13721	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that: Mr Gusenbauer is missing now. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No, he's not missing!]] So "important" to him is the rural area, where he wants to remove 50 percent. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Where is he, Mr. Gusenbauer? Let's talk about it objectively now! Let us now talk about what rural areas mean and what this rural development means for Austrian farmers, for Austrian consumers, for Austrian society! [[Abg. Dr. One: Forget it as long as the molar isn't there!]] No, Mr. One, don't say: Forget it! – Forget about Mr Gusenbauer in a year! That's what I'm telling you now. Forget Mr Gusenbauer in a year with the policy he is doing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: But you forget the rural area!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It hurts me that you are so inaccurate about this subject. [[Abg. Dr. One: You're ugly yourself! Speak objectively once!]] You have no idea what this rural area needs! Ten percent of the funds are currently available for this for Austria in Brussels, and we want to secure it. And you want to remove 50 percent of that? - Well, congratulations! We will tell people in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. That is why, Mr Minister, we are very, very grateful – not only as a farmer's Federal President, but also as a whole those people who live in rural areas, because it is about securing the economic location! [[Abg. Dr. One: You don't do that!]] These EU funds with national programmes, with tax reform, with the growth packages and much more secure the rural economy. This means that even in the future this rural area can be an intact, viable, kind living space and, above all, an economic location. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. One.]] You don't want to know that and you don't want to see it – that's the point – but I'm telling you: We have recently been with the Federal Chancellor at my home in the region. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Through this rural development, through the tax reform, we have celebrated a ground-breaking ceremony for € 250 million in my region. This secures 400 people's jobs, that creates 60 new jobs, the domestic forestry receives an additional sales of 500 000 fixed meters, and overall benefits in this region 5 000 to 6 000 people. – This is rural policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Faul and Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Your policy was another: Their policy was one of the job destruction in this region, where the nationalized industry has collapsed, where you have left behind empty production sites and where unemployment has increased, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr Reheis and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That was your policy, and there we differ considerably! And if one comes to the speaker's desk here and asks whether the farmers are the backbone of the rural area – and I say that the backbone is also our country – then I have to ask: Where do you live if you don't know? [[Abg. Faul: This is Raiffeisen! Raiffeisen!]] Where do you live if you do not know, Mr Gaßner? The farmers were, and will continue to be, the backbone of an intact rural area, where it is a matter of providing people with safe food, environmentally sound production, animal-friendly production and also ensuring the economic location of rural areas, because the job of a farm also loses two to three jobs in the downstream and downstream area. That is why we know the importance and necessity of safeguarding our rural families.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13882	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13903	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grillitsch, I now only have two to three minutes until the urgent request. I shall therefore confine myself to a few points, Mr President, and to my speech. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] I think it is clear that the Greens have always said yes to the rural development programme. It is right that it is necessary to develop rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, 64 percent of Austrian agricultural funding is currently going to rural development. So it's clearly the big cake we're talking about here. It is the essential area in the direction of mining support, towards environmentally sound agriculture. We know: At European level, it is only 20 per cent of the agricultural budget that goes into rural development. From our point of view, therefore, it is not about cuts, but about retranslations of the means. This has to be forced at European level, and a successful strategy needs to be tightened – successfully, ladies and gentlemen, for example, because we are top-ranking in organic farming across Europe. But here too we see...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13937	Mr Pirklhuber, if you would like to make one more request, you have a minute to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13952	Mr President, I will then make the request in my second speech because we have also made this request for distribution. He should have already been distributed; if he is not yet, I am looking for distribution. - Thank you. I would like to continue briefly: In any case, export subsidies at European level are also being recast and used for environmental and social measures. – So far to the total budget. Mr Pröll, Minister of State, but one must already be clear: The new rural development programme, the new environmental programme must, in any case, be a further development towards objective accuracy as regards environmental measures. I'll call it the key to genetic-technology-free seeds. The requirement that agriculture in Austria will remain free of genetic engineering in the future must also be safeguarded in the ÖPUL agricultural environment programme! I will explain this in detail in my second speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13979	I am now interrupting the negotiations on this item on the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:47]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on disclosure of contracts concerning the procurement of fighter aircraft (699/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14010	We come to the urgent treatment of self-employed motion 699/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14104	I call Mr Cap to speak as an applicant for the urgent request. His speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14125	Mr President. High house! – Only no nervosities develop! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mr. colleague, your own party does not seem to be interested in this! The SPÖ is still at lunch break!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] As you know, during the exploratory discussions in 2002/2003 in many – very controversial – debates that ultimately led to the failure of the exploratory talks and to genuine negotiations, among other things one of the main points, if not the main point, the differing views on the question: Does Austria not need this Eurofighter fighter fighter or does Austria need this Eurofighter fighter? Those who have recently had the opportunity to read my very appreciated daily newspaper “The Press” will have noticed that this daily newspaper – you can only congratulate her for coming to these supplements, namely commercial congratulates, content is something else – was accompanied by a supplement in which an advertisement was found: The Minister of Defence is modern, professional, solemn. [[The speaker shall keep the above-mentioned supplement up to date.]] In this, a little bit of the text is philosophized about what the Eurofighters can do. I quote: Finally, the German army will also continue to monitor the Austrian airspace and take over the airspace observation in individual international operations. Similarly, it is planned to guarantee future air support for the transport of troops and materials. - Quote. So this is clearly a description of tasks that go beyond airspace surveillance. And it will be in this supplement... [[Abg. Fauland: But go! It's really hard!]] It is not even there that the work of the ground troops should be supported by these fighter bombs in the case of national or international operations. - Good. But the really important thing about this supplement is that the back is advertised for the Eurofighter on a whole page. [[The speaker holds the back of a press supplement.]] That is, this supplement paid Eurofighter. [[Abg. Fauland: This is coffee reading!]] In this supplement, which Eurofighter has paid, the Minister of Defense is allowed to advertise in the interests of Eurofighter, apply for himself, and in almost all cases to sink into incense. This shows, I believe, clearly what is actually being played here. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Fauland and Mr Neudeck.]] – That there is a consensus of interest! I'll be here in time for you, because you shot the bird with an broadcast last time, but you can enjoy it afterwards. In any event, this supplement clearly shows where there are common interests. However, we also need to see the following: The parties, who have kept giving talks about the proper handling of tax funds, the two government parties, who are giving talks all the time about how ordinary merchants behave, the talks about who is in this country's business-competent and who are not, the two parties, who are giving permanent talks about who is economical and who is not economical, exactly these two parties have now had the opportunity to get out of this contract, out of this sintering contract. But they don't! We must remember what it is all about, or how it was the process that has always been highly critical. The Court of Auditors is truly a witness to the fact that it has been highly critical. Once apart from the fact that you said first, 24 Eurofighters, then you sat down and said, 18 Eurofighters. We know that there has been quite a different assessment in the ministry, right up to the Minister of Defence, from home. In one act many things have been said, just one not, that is, Eurofighter, which would be preferable. We know that after that – and this is what we see in the criticism of the Eurofighter – we have changed. But I don't want to go that far. I would just like to point out that the first public announcement of the costs to the Eurofighters was very high. By the way, this was announced by a Minister of Finance, who first said that it was not necessary at all, then said that this device was the most expensive anyway. Then he didn't say anything, then there must have been any motivation talk with him. After that, he had a short thought-out break and suddenly came to the conclusion that the most expensive were also the best. One has to say that at the time when he said that, he cannot have known these planes, because they did not exist at all at that time. So that was a purchase, a decision, a type decision with the principle of hope. You have to imagine the following: Someone goes to a car house and says: I want the next model. The seller who wants to sell it to him says, I don't know how it looks, I don't know how many wheels it has, I just know, it might come sometime. The buyer says: Great, just such a model I'm looking for! I don't need to know exactly when the car is finished. I don't want to know when it comes exactly. Maybe it only has three wheels, maybe it's five wheels if it's just a new model. – A steering wheel, I guess, must have it, otherwise it is a bit difficult with the traffic regulations. – Otherwise, all of this is not important to me. Do you know what's particularly important to me? Especially important is, I want to pay, I love to pay it regularly, without ending, time and again. Every advice that leaves my wallet makes me happy! You have to meet such a buyer who is concerned with this attitude. What else is the question – and there seems to be a difference in mentality –: Is it my own money or is it the taxpayers' money? – That is, by the way, what you have been doing to us for years and have said that you are being irresponsible in dealing with taxpayers’ money. But you have really practiced that on this question. Then came the number 18 Eurofighters and even they were even more expensive than you originally told the public about the 24 Eurofighters. The 24 Eurofighters were, of course, split fiber naked Eurofighters – almost indecent, so naked. [[Abg. Scheibner: That would fit you!]] They introduced you to the public at the time, just that they still had wings. These were your 24 Euro fighters. At least 18 Eurofighters came. What a smart, strategic, air policy consideration it was that you said, at 18 you can achieve much more than at 24, I don't know. But someone from the group of experts here will certainly be able to say that. Then it has become known that the British Eurofighters of the tranche 1 got the piece by €62 million. We get the piece by € 110 million. There must be a very great difference between the two. A very great difference must exist if the difference is €50 million! That is the moment when I have to make Mr Murauer send me out. Mr Murauer, if You have written the issue yourself, I can only congratulate you, because you say there is no real difference between tranche 1 and tranche 2. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] Quasi: Don't get upset if that's the one-ser-tranche or the two-tranch, that's all. And if they can't deliver the two-branch, as we've guessed all the time, then take six planes from the one-ser-tranch. Because the Swiss flyers, which we borrowed by €75 million, already have problems. Recently one went down with one engine, because the second one has not gone, Mr Murauer. [[Abg. Fauland: Engine!]] Propos Safety of the pilots and security of the army members: That seems to you not really such a concern as you always state here. But you know what? They say here, to calm us all, to “valiumise”, the difference between the planes of tranche 1 and tranche 2 – I say now, commenting on it, simplified – lies only in the exchange of a computer. Mr Murauer, what computer? [[Abg. Grossruck: Calculator!]] It's worth 50 million euros. That must be an inconceivably great high-tech device where you say: If I have this cute little computer for which I'm ready to add €50 million... – Look, if you're working with Pi mal Pi, I'll advise you: [[Abg. Murauer: This goes beyond a calculator!]] Never give talks about the waste of taxpayers' money or debt policy again! Never again! Just never again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope you're not in the conversation as a grass follower, because I'm afraid I'll do it if you should perhaps become a finance minister and then march with many small computers. This broadcast is really unbeatable. Almost I'd have copied them and had them distributed here in the high house. Everyone should own this broadcast. Mr Murauer also says that he defends the Eurofighter Treaty and that Austria does not create any disadvantages due to delays in delivery and development. – Sure, that’s how it is, even if everything is delayed. – It doesn’t matter anyway, you say in German between the lines whether we have them sooner, later or not. But because we just got her, we just got her. And then you say that the Treaty has already been the subject of an audit of the Court of Auditors and not least has been decided in Parliament. When has this been decided in Parliament? Who can remember? You are confusing the plenary with the ÖVP club, Mr Murauer. It may be that you have all received the Eurofighter contract there. I don't know, Klubobmann Molterer will be better able to assess if he has distributed him. When was the Treaty adopted in Parliament, Mr Murauer? Since we hear from this Eurofighter Treaty, we call for it to be finally presented. We have had an extra request today for this Treaty to be submitted. And They say, in fact, almost suggestive: Your reality is your reality, my reality is that: I decided on the contract. – You must have come by alone to decide here. At least we didn't decide. [[Abg. Gaál: In the Figl Room!]] But what I also find interesting is: How do you argue all of this within the army? – There it is powerful at all corners and ends, in the canteens, in the barracks, in the other gun holes, all suffer from the pressure and have too little money. You have to hear there permanently: Yes, less food, less material, less spare parts. [[Abg. Grandruck: Less time! Less military service!]] We live only for the Eurofighter, for those 18 aircraft that are not yet there, perhaps come, probably not coming, of which we do not know what they can. As a crucial point in the history of the Eurofighter, you have given particular importance to this: We don't want to test him. No, no, no, He should surprise us when he comes what he can. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Maybe he can fly, maybe he can't fly. What can he do in the air? Can he wake up, can he take a picture? We don't want to know, but one day he's supposed to come, come all surprisingly suddenly, best move to the ballhouse square, reveal there – and then first we want to know what he can. [[Abg. Großruck: You have a nice confidence in your comrades in Germany!]] Then first we want to know what additional instruments he has, whether he can see at night, where he is flying, whether he can see something at night or not. If it gets too expensive then you can reduce it again, perhaps on a flight engine, a dragon, not two wings, just one. Maybe you can limit something a little bit, make it cheaper. That's the mentality you're dealing with! And criticism in the army is growing and growing. [[Abg. Großruck: To comrade Schröder you don't have so much confidence!]] You can develop your baritone later! Listen to me! It wouldn't be bad. Go quickly to your Styrian constituency and tell the Eurofighter! People there will be very interested. In my opinion, they are also acceptable in the mood that prevails there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if you let this purchase, €2.43 billion, ultimately make up 134 percent of the defense budget... – Your radicalization lately, Mr Grillitsch, is a mystery to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I can only explain this to myself by the fact that on Sunday you expect a very terrible event. Wait a few more days and don't be so radical now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: The municipality of Fohnsdorf...!]] Yes, explain to your farmers if they have demands that the Eurofighter is more important to you than perhaps some support for the rural population, for the rural population! Go and say, I'd rather hear the aircraft engine noise, that's music in my ears – and not the tractor noise! Say that there once and advertise in this way to vote voters! I wish you all the best. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] So we have asked for several times... [[Abg. Grossruck: It's about security and defence! ...don't play the Kasperl!]] – From “Kasperl”, you walking four-liners! Shall I tell you something? Please take a constructive look at the question of whether it is justified that you will powder a total of €5 billion of tax money over a longer period of time for this unprecedented monstrum! It's inconceivable! Unbelievable! – At first laugh and then yell, I love that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Swivel down your cabaret!]] That is why I am now telling you: Of course, what has now been noticed – that is also the reason for this urgent request – is that in a report by the German Federal Ministry of Defence Eurofighter was somewhat recognizable. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is not a circus event!]] By the way, Austria is the only export country. In fact, there is no country outside the producing countries that the Eurofighters want at all. In a short time, Singapore was there. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: They canceled it!]] Then Singapore said, no, thank you, we're not. Austria is almost the only export country. The rest must buy whether they want or not because they produce the Eurofighters. They want to buy them. It starts to interest me slowly: Why do you want that? Why first of all the reproach with the economic platform in the election campaign? Just to get over the election campaign? The Federal Chancellor wanted to inform us, there are private entrepreneurs, split entrepreneurs who say it has always been my wish since my childhood, I want to play with a fighter plane. That's why I buy it. – An interesting approach, one that has been crushed like a soap bubble and has ultimately not voted. In fact, it didn't vote. According to the Court of Auditors, everything has been done in this way from the very beginning – I am even saying, so far as it is concerned – so that this aircraft is purchased: with counter-businesses, which are, in part, ridiculous as a result of the Court of Auditors' audit report. [[Abg. Murauer: Hello! Get in!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: If you have something, put it on the table!]] So what's the real reason why you really want this plane? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... corruption!]] Come on. Get out! Please tell us! I would like to ask you to have the Treaty here in Parliament. I would like the real motive for buying the Eurofighters. I don't put anything on you, I want the real motive. Perhaps these are very simple motives, perhaps these motives are even public. Please tell us! Defence policy, air space – that's all wrong. [[Abg. Murauer: In your opinion!]] - Not in my opinion. Listen Come on! Also in the Ministry of Defence. If you had not at that time made sure that there would suddenly be a change of mind from the Minister of Finance to the Ministry of Defence, then the purchase of the Eurofighter would never be – never! – to be decided. But he was decided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] You must admit that this is not only the task of the opposition, but also of those who represent here the true interests of the Austrians, the tax-citizens, that you can ask about such a huge sum: why? Mr. Minister of Defence, you should actually know. They got in a little later than that all was already in progress. But now you must have worked all this up. Don't let everyone here, except the ÖVP and FPÖ delegates and the BZÖler, tap in the dark! Tell me at last what the background is for this! It's too much money in the game here. This is the last chance to get out of here. This report, which I have previously quoted, finally admits that we cannot deliver, we cannot comply with the Treaty. So now is the chance to get out of this contract. – But you don’t want to! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] I could quote all your comments on this subject, but you can read them in our urgent request. You say you're totally optimistic that the delivery date is being observed, it's all coming. There's nothing coming! They admit it's not coming. You might say, of course, far East: There's nothing you can do! - Ohm! They're calming down a little bit, someday it'll be all right. With this you can calm yourself, but that is why the contract is not fulfilled. I would therefore ask you to comment on this in your reply. We have put forward a very simple urgent request, which reads: “... to the National Council without delay, however, by no later than 15 years. ==References====External links==* Official website To allocate to representatives of the EADS Group and the Republic of Austria agreements concerning the purchase of Eurofighter Typhoon-type combat aircraft and relevant compensations.’ Why Make You don't? Why don't you get out of this contract? What are the real reasons? – Please explain this to us now! That is why this urgent request is put to the vote with a subsequent vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14527	Mr Morak spoke on the issue of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – Mr State Secretary, please. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I would ask you to listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14567	Mr President. High house! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] It has already been discussed several times in this House about the subject to be debated today. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Maybe the woman should talk to Gehrer!]] I therefore do not need to stress that airspace surveillance is essential for a sovereign state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the disclosure of the Eurofighter Treaty, which you requested, I agree, first of all with the opinion of the Constitutional Service of 3. In the light of the above, the Commission decided to refer the matter to the Court for a preliminary ruling on the interpretation of Article 107(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. Already at that time, constitutional objections were raised by the Constitutional Service regarding the transfer of the contract to an institution of the National Council. [[Abg. Oils: Nice reading!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What did you say now?]] These constitutional objections existed at the time – and of course still exist today. It is in concrete terms the obligation of the Federal Minister for Defence of the State to the parliamentary bodies in such a matter to remain in office within the meaning of Article 20(1). 3 of the Federal Constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] The Constitutional provision mentioned by me lays down the following: All bodies entrusted with the tasks of the Federal Government shall remain silent in all facts known to them solely from their official activities, provided that they are the cases specified in the Constitution. – As such, the interests of comprehensive national defence as well as the major interests of the Parties are also expressly identified. [[Call: nonsense]] Since the contract with Eurofighter GmbH has contents in all its parts which satisfy these conditions in any event, the disclosure of contractual content is not permitted. This is contrary to the present resolution on disclosure of the Treaties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] At national level, as you know, the Austrian Federal Army is the military instrument of the Republic to ensure and enforce its strategic interests. He is responsible for maintaining their sovereignty and protecting their people, as well as for ensuring appropriate participation in military measures in international conflict prevention and crisis management. It thus contributes adequately to the security and stability of Europe as well as to areas in the strategic interest of Austria and the EU. The position of Austria in Europe, its political scope and the ability to enforce its interests are increasingly being determined by the quality of its military contribution. Deduced from the military strategic situation, the German army has in any case ensured the preservation of state sovereignty in its own territory and in the airspace, as well as the protection of the Austrian population and the strategically significant infrastructure. These include active and passive surveillance and protection of the airspace through modern and modern airspace monitoring. The aim of this federal government is to guarantee these in the sense of the security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14667	We are now going into the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Was that all?]] The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. His speaking time will be adjusted to 7 minutes. The legal speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14712	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, it is a pity that Mr Bundeskanzler is not present, that I would have liked to ask him some questions on this economic platform, which is supposed to finance the Eurofighters, on the other hand, it is quite good for the dignity of the house, because his statements today were unbearable from the government bank. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Defence Minister, how many countries around the world are still relying on the Eurofighter? – Singapore, we have just heard, has since risen due to supply difficulties – due to the difficulties of delivery of EADS. [[Abg. Amon: This is a European country?]] Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has cancelled due to financial bottlenecks. – Mr Minister, let us know which countries around the world – apart from the producer countries – still rely on the Eurofighter. You will have to admit, it is only more Austria. On the basis of this government's ruling and non-responsible attitude, the Austrian population must import this thing as the only country. That is really unbearable, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's look at your original schedule. In 2002: Decision on the purchase of new interception hunters, which has still been approved. By mid-2005: Delivery of seven new interception hunters – by mid-2005! By the end of 2005: The delivery of five additional new interceptors and the delivery of the remaining twelve interceptors by 2007. And now something else is to come in 2007 than has been ordered. – So, Federal Minister, this is really ridiculous! You have clearly answered the question concerning the first or second tranche. For example, you have in the “Mitagsjournal” of the 9th century. In September 2003, the following words were added: The first tranche was rated, we get the second. – Only recently did the ORF clarify gratefully: Unfortunately, with the problems surrounding the tranches, Platters Ressort had repeatedly erased the reports with the comment from the table: Austria will be delivered from the second tranche. We are certainly not the experimental rabbit, the Federal Minister promised at that time literally. You, Federal Minister Platter, also have – and this is also to be read – on 6 June. October 2004 states: In addition, the government had deliberately opted for aircraft from the second, further developed tranche. And now we're supposed to get airplanes to the first tranche?- Oh, my God! – Mr Minister, this is a “insanity idea” to express this once in the Jargon of Federal Chancellor Schüssel. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Let us look at the truth content of the central statements of several people. Minister Grasser meant – Mr Cap mentioned it –: No, we don't have money for interceptors! Dr. Haider pasted “Stop Eurofighter”, he was threatened somewhere in Klagenfurt in a dark corner. Federal Chancellor Schüssel said: No euro, no cents will cost the population; it all pays for an economic platform! Mr Bartenstein, even though he has repeatedly disputed it, went on 2nd. ==References====External links== There are 5.5 billion counter-business volumes. And what does the Court of Auditors say, which is the only one to take seriously? – He says: The Eurofighter can only perform the tasks of airspace monitoring limited! – Mr Murauer, take a position on these circumstances! And what does Mr Platter say to take out only a part of these untruths: According to the invitation to tender, there will be two locations. You kept claiming that. In reality, there is only one repair rate, and all Eurofighters are to be stationed at the expense of the population in tentway That is, ladies and gentlemen, an untruth hunts the next! It is therefore only logical, of course, for the Treaty template to be requested in the Austrian Parliament. This would be common in every cultured Parliament in Europe, just the world. Ladies and gentlemen, if this does not happen, then there is only one plausible explanation: There must have been illegal payments, there must have simply been black money flows. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Of course!]] Now let us look at the topic of black money and the ÖVP in the example of Styria and at the Causa Hirschmann. Mrs. Klasnic said: Anyone who claims this will be complained! – It has been claimed, and no one has been accused! Mrs. Klasnic said: Anyone who wants can take a look at the bookkeeping of the ÖVP within three minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: That's the fairy tale plate!]] I tried, but that's what it said: No, you can't! [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Klasnic said: The ÖVP has nothing to do with black money in the Hirschmann case.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14796	Mr Herzegovina, this has nothing to do with the Eurofighter and the presentation of the Treaty. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I'll call you for the first time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14832	Mr President, I should like to make one more point. [[Abg. Mr Gusenbauer: Mr President, you know more than we do!]] I fear and suspect black money payments in connection with the Eurofighter purchase and now bring in two examples from Styria. [[Abg. May. Molterer: put something in front of you!]] Mrs. Klasnic said: The ÖVP has nothing to do with it. However, ex-ÖVP Klubobmann Schilcher is the turntable. Ex-ÖVP Councillor Fuchs is the mediator. [[Abg. Neudeck: Eurofighter!]] And ÖVP Federal Councillor Hösele is the Conscious. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, don't be angry with me, but there are abysses in the Styria, as far as black money payments and hiding games are concerned, so that it is entitled to claim with fug and right that even at the Eurofighteral Black Money. [[Abg. Neudeck: I think you should take a course “to do” at Prammer!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Please!]] In this sense, the demand lies on the table: Empty She finally proposed this treaty in order to counter all suspicions, Mrs Steibl!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14923	Mr Murauer is now speaking. His welcome time is 8 minutes. The legal speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e14961	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Herb, first of all: What does this mean by “unbearability ”? – They claim here that there have been black money payments in the Styria – and have no evidence of this. The Court of Auditors shall prove to you the opposite. What’s “unbearable,” I ask you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hirschmann!]] Secondly, I don't want to say it's unbearable, but I already mention the following: Mr. Cubobmann Cap, you're making one of your cabaretist deposits here. I mean, that's nice to laugh and listen. But you are calling for security policy within the framework of your cabaretist presentation and asking for a serious discussion about it, Mr Cap, is unbearable and a point of order! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You don't know how to get out!]] I think there's a comparison with the gulash. The gulash gets better when you warm it up 17 times. Your debate on the same subject with the same arguments, with the flat-rate accusations that are all unfounded, will not be better, but only thinner. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There are always new accusations!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Then set up an investigation committee!]] I would like to remind you that this Federal Government has succeeded in financing security policy. Mr Kogler, that hurts you, I understand for you, that's always bad for the opposition. This Federal Government has succeeded in financing airspace surveillance through Eurofighter, a tax reform, a pension increase, an increase in the pendulum fee and a corresponding amount of kilometre money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] It did not finance security policy at the expense of other investments, for example in the area of social benefits, but both succeeded. This federal government has responsibility for both. We have done everything in terms of security policy and are constantly trying to keep this Austria as a social state, as a state of social warmth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, there is already an interesting development: First, you were for airspace surveillance. [[Abg. May. Kogler: In the back of the engines it is nice warm!]] Mr. Gusenbauer, until 17. Everything was still going on on on April 2000. Yes, we need airspace surveillance, we also need to buy flyers – today this is not the case. [[Abg. May. Kogler: airspace heater!]] ==References== On April 1, 2000, there was a federal government without you that thank God, which is more successful than you would have. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This has been expensive for Austria! How much do you get?]] From this point on, you have dropped your argument and said that we are now against airspace surveillance. Mr. Cap, you were even a NATO candidate. Today you say we don't need anything at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] We need neither military nor airspace control, nor NATO accession, but that makes our friends on the edge of our state. We are surrounded by NATO countries, by friends of states et cetera, and therefore we do not need independence, says Mr Cap. We disagree. We say we secure our land to the ground and also in the air. I am glad if the occasion does not come when we need Eurofighter surveillance aircraft to face a threat accordingly. You didn't get that. Probably the Socialist International has drawn your attention to the fact that all states have aircraft, only Austria not. That we cannot hold an international event, your colleague from Salzburg, Mrs Landeshuptmann Burgstaller, told you. One needs a contract, it has to be granted safety in the air, otherwise the winter games cannot take place. Mr Gusenbauer, you know that, even if you do differently now. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: With these Eurofighters?! They're a danger to safety!]] Then your next campaign on type decision came. You said that wasn't the right type. . The Court of Auditors then proved the opposite, namely, that the cost-benefit balance is quite right, that there has been an independent Commission, which has made the decision for the Eurofighter as the best, most cost-effective aircraft for Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a nonsense! Never!]] Mr President of the Kogler Court of Auditors, if you were to make a different Presidency and do not run away from the individual meetings with the Social Democrats, then you would have more opportunity to ask the Minister of State who has spoken and answered, but you have not been there. They have been gone and have not observed the information available accordingly. Now there's something stirring: They're already for airspace surveillance. They are now quite ready to talk about not getting out without a plane. But now you criticize that perhaps in 2007 we will no longer receive these planes. - There's no tranche problem. The truth is that there is an excellent, timely, modern, European aircraft that has been ordered, and then there is an optimized software that will be included in the “second tranche” – under quotation marks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Read the contract before!]] We get the delivery with the appropriate equipment during the tranche two now mentioned. Don't worry, we'll get the planes and run counter-businesses. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They're running away from you!]] Mr Androsch of FACC also confirms to us that he is happy about this and now wants to build a new work. They will also be concerned about the job, I assume. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: These are the most expensive jobs in Austria!]] How do you actually talk about the producer EADS? Do you even know who you're talking about? Do you know how many work at EADS? Do you know what's being produced there? Are you aware of that? And you make EADS bad at any time that they are not able to deliver, not deliver a decent device and so on. If you don't care about the jobs, I'll ask you! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where are the jobs? In Austria?]] It obviously doesn't matter to you. The left populism is obviously your driving force – and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Platter, I would like to thank you very much for making it clear that there will be complete airspace surveillance and that security can be granted to the Austrian people at any time, both in the country and in the air, and that you will not get out of this agreement, because you know that this is the best and most cost-effective instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we reject the setting up of an investigation committee is obvious.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15207	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15228	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The general cheerfulness in the SPÖ is not appropriate to the subject, but probably the introduction by Clubobmann Cap, for he said correctly: You know what's going on now, and that's what he was right about. We know what happens when a urgent request or a urgent request is made, because we have been able to experience this in total about 30 times since the year 2000: 30 times the same arguments, the same false claims. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] We could do that 30 times. At the 30 times the rulers of Gusenbauer and Cap came along; sometimes vice versa, namely first Cap and then Gusenbauer. Today there was a new combination: Cap and herbs. Perhaps Mr Gaál may also be able to justify a urgent question here, because he really knows what the security policy is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Mr Gaál is quite clear that we need this airspace surveillance and that it is a nonsense that the Czechs or Hungary are monitoring our airspace – a solution that you have already proposed – or that you buy steering weapons, so you shoot down first and then look who's over there. Mr Cap, you obviously always confuse the National Council with a lecture evening at some section in Hernals, because Your comparisons with the car dealer and so on should bring you better there, there you may reap applause and cheer for it. Here you should at least stick to the truth and the facts. Then come back with the price and throw in why Britain pays so little and we so much. – They forget the billions of euros that operators needed to invest in development in order to be able to produce and to make distribution together. I'll tell you: I would not have mind if Austria had been involved in such a high-tech project from the beginning, because this would have brought us jobs and meant technology transfer to Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where?]] I don't know if you'd really been there for that. You would have had it in your hand, because that was the decision in the eighties and in the nineties, but there have You saw it differently. Then, of course, you came back with the argument: What can you finance if you just don't have to buy the interceptors! And all of this with 0.25 percent of the budget, because ten years, that's the cost of airspace surveillance. They act as if 0.25% of the budget could solve all the problems of the state. – The “seriosity” of your argumentation. Then it was noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that you are already going out of your ideas. I thought that the opposition, if it has already made a urgent request, would also demand that, as I could read in the broadcasts, the contract be stopped or that one should get out of it. I read through the urgent requests – and was amazed that you don't want to. That's all right anyway! Perhaps Mr Gaál has gone through this and has said that it would be totally absurd to get out of the Treaty now and then really have a safety vacuum in the next few years. That's exactly why you don't want that either, but you just want to have insight into the contract. They have already been pointed out how this has been in the Dragon. I remember: There you were in the government and brought all of this. It was a much less sensitive matter. We wanted to understand compensation contracts for some procurement project. There was a committee. What did they give us? – Empty pages “confidential” on them. That was the “acting insight ” you gave at that time! A document, namely the Court of Auditors, has been consulted in all the documents. But you do not seem to trust this, namely, that you are not even present at the meetings of the Committee on the Court of Auditors, where this very question has been debated. There you could have asked the details and expressed your criticism, but these sessions you have “growed”. I know it was the meeting again in the evening, maybe you were there in a SPÖ section in Hernals and brought back the comparison with the car dealer. This may be more popular, but it is certainly not serious, which would be appropriate to this question. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The Scheibner is against Vienna! The Scheibner has a problem with Vienna!]] Now, as you say, there is a new argument: the tranche 1 and the tranche 2. You know exactly – I'm always very honest – I would have preferred to get the tranche 2 out of the house, too, because then we don't need refits. Even if they don't cost the federal army anything, it's still an effort. Even if only a few months, a year or two years were to take this transitional phase, it would make sense, as planned, to enter the tranche 2 immediately. I've never told you that it would have been better if we had bought immediately and at least 24 interceptors. It would have been better for me if we had acquired the full armament. And it would have been better for me to have made part of the interception fleet available for the common European security and defence policy, because this would have saved ourselves from military quotas on the other side. – All of this has not gone so far, but yet this project is a sensible, yes, necessary measure to guarantee the security of Austria. If you look at the difference between tranche 1 and tranche 2, you have to say: Yes, of course, the upgrade to the software is already important! We'll be holding for some time at six planes, as I've heard, only have the second best aircraft in the world and after a year the best aircraft in the world when it's upgraded. But I don't know if you can start a lot with the advanced icon generator computer being upgraded, that the integrated monitoring and recording will then be upgraded, that the data link system attack and identification will then be upgraded. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I think you can't do anything with that! You're just reading it out!]] What we don't want – and I think we agree with the tranche 2 – is the equipment with control unit for controlled bombs and other air-ground activities. You said that again and spoke of “Bombern. ” I know that's also the section jargon of Hernals: the "Bomber". I suppose you already know what a bomber is, a warbomber. A fighter bomb is an aircraft bombarding a ground target from the air. [[Abg. Gaál: No!]] We don't want that! We have therefore not purchased such a device, but we have acquired an airspace surveillance aircraft that organizes air safety and does not provide any ground support. Therefore, this large part of the upgrading of the tranche 2 for Austria is not up-to-date and will not be retrieved either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] I have to say something about your accusation of manipulation, even though it is not even annoyed with you, when you speak of “manipulation” and “corruption” here; Mr Jarolim, too, has called this in between. Only: I really have to ask: What experiences do you have? You yourself made such projects if you believe all of this the same way? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction SPÖ) You are like this yourself! As the bad guy thinks, so is he!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Jarolim represents, as far as I know, the Austrian Airlines or has represented them. You've already done interception projects and other arms projects. So: What experience do you have with such things, Mr Colleague Herbs? I can only say: You are a Member of Parliament who enjoys immunity, and therefore it doesn't matter... Your party or any organization of your party once accused and has had to pay for it because, in truth, there is not even a spark of suspicion. The Procuratorate has examined everything. The Court of Auditors has now examined three times and said: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Completely wrong!]] Only this decision was right! . I do not want to know what you would have said if we had decided otherwise. The Commission in the army has decided in this way. That's what we've already mentioned here x-mal. But your bright face – well, now you're a little asleep, I've noticed. At least the hustle and bustle is gone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] You know, Mr Cap, that was again the Jargon of the section Hernals: the “one-sleeved face”. You can see that your own action went into your pants. As with all other 30 initiatives against the Eurofighters and against airspace surveillance, this action has also taken place here and today. Keywords: Section Hernals. That will also be the case in the future. And I'll tell you: I've always been looking forward to these discussions here, otherwise... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] We do not fall asleep in the face, Mr Cap, but we are proud that we, my group – not only in the government, but even in the time of opposition – have not complied with this populism and have not said: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] We don't want all of this, we're against it! On the contrary: We are of the opinion that populism ceases at security! Sometimes you have to decide the unpleasant but necessary. That's what it's like in airspace surveillance!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15417	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. 10 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15439	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think that's a very good request. Good requests are characterised by the fact that they are simple, that they are understandable, that they can be explained in a sentence and that they meet a point. And that can be explained in a sentence: The National Council is finally to be presented with the Eurofighter Treaty because it has a right to it! I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. That's all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: I can't do that!]] This is not only reasonable, it is not only appropriate, but also mandatory by Austrian laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr Platter, I would like to point out that the refusal to issue the Treaty and its side texts to the National Council is certainly a violation of all relevant laws, including the Rules of Procedure of the Austrian National Council. I am going to justify this subsequently and also explain to you what consequences this will have. First of all: The “known” lawyer, State Secretary Morak, the “Burg-Jurist” Morak has explained to us that the silence of office is subject to everything that is comprehensive national defence. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] Minister Platter, since you are the Federal Minister for Defence, if such a law interpretation were to apply, you have broken dozens of times the silence of office and thus violated an important section of the Criminal Code because you have answered requests from Members on subjects of defence. After such an interpretation, you, Mr. Federal Minister, would not have dared to do this once. So you need to explain why you should do it almost always more or less – and in this only case, do not partial out. And this non-must – and we will still come back to it – is not based on any law. There is a second argument that you did not need today but that you needed in the Court of Auditors, which is: We have also concluded an agreement on confidentiality with Eurofighter GmbH in the contract to the National Council. Yes Believe You really do? Faith You really know that every minister and businessman can sit down and say: For this invitation to tender, for this award, we conclude a contract with which we remove the right of question from the National Council!Unknown term type: "%s".? Faith You really think this is up to you and your friends in the arms industry? [[Abg. Oils: Trust it would be!]] Do you believe that you are over the laws that are above the rules of procedure, above the federal constitution? [[Abg. Oils: They believe this!]] Do you believe that something in this House, of course, cannot be described as a shift, but for which one finds no other concept, is justified in breaking laws serially, overcoming the rights of the National Council and saying: I'm Herbert Scheibner, and I made this up with the gentlemen from Munich? - That's not enough! [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't matter at all!]] Sorry! – Herbert Scheibner was the history. Günther Platterhat signed that, the signature had been outlawed, which Herbert Scheibner had to admit on the occasion of the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Scheibner: Completely wrong!]] Now the question arises why a person more decent – and I say this without any cynical undertone – and serious Minister of Defense like Günther Platter does such a thing, in full knowledge that both legal figures are absolutely unsustainable. There is a hint – and I would like to continue to ask, and perhaps you can answer questions there – namely: The Treaty was concluded in May 2003. At the end of November 2003, Magna joined the Industrial Association. The spokesperson of Magna has explained that they are re-entering because the industrial association has recently become a particularly efficient service organisation. A high contribution was paid by Magna to the Industrial Union. There is a section in the Party Act that describes how to report party donations to the Court of Auditors: Legal persons, physical persons must declare their party donations in the donor list. There is an exception in paragraph 4. The exception are voluntary representations of interests. And the Industrial Union is a voluntary representation of interests. Through the Industrial Union, I have publicly claimed that, and no one in the Industrial Association has made itself a long-lasting Wehr – completely legal donations are washed. The Austrian Party Law has deliberately built up this gap. I assume and ask you, Minister of Defence, whether you know that Magna has transferred a high amount of euro in connection with the Eurofighter business of the Industrial Union, which has been transferred to the ÖVP. That's the bowl question! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] In this declaration, under the item ‘Interesting’, the ÖVP received €314,000 in 2003. [[Abg. Murauer: He's just telling something! That's a groundless thing!]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Which companies have you received, washed over the industrial association, this €314,000? How much did you get in 2004? Why has this been washed in the industrial union? Why could the industry donors not confess to their donations? These are the questions that we have to ask here today in connection with the Eurofighter, because we have not known to this day why such military and economic nonsense at the expense of the Austrian state budget has been whipped and enforced by a majority of governments, under the leadership of the ÖVP, against the will of the then Minister of Defence! That is the crucial point! For the first time, there is the possibility of a clear motive, and this clear motive is called “Daimler Benz”, “Interesse Magna”, “Industrial Union”, “legal money laundering” and “financing of the ÖVP”. That is where we want to ask questions, and we want to have answered questions! [[Abg. Murauer: And then you've gotten smarter!]] Finally, put the washed donations and the hidden names of the donors on the table! [[Abg. Murauer: Put off your dreams!]] Then we may know why you, as a party, are no longer out of the Eurofighter Treaty. But because it is just that and because it concerns these questions, I am even more confident that we will soon have a majority capable of proclaiming this Treaty on the basis of completely different pre-histories and other party finances. The German Minister of Defence pointed out the most important thing: because the Eurofighter company is not capable of delivering, because it is unable to meet the criteria of must. For the first time as a witness, we have a German defense minister – not an Austrian opposition politician, not an Austrian journalist! – and he says that today, tomorrow, tomorrow, without a euro without paying a cent, we could get out of the contract. That is why my two proposals are: Let's get out to minimize the damage! And finally open your party finances in this context and also in the interest of reconnaissance of the motives at this Eurofighter-Debakel! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15632	The Federal Minister for the Defence of the State Günther Platter has now spoken. 10 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15656	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to clearly distance myself from such accusations as Mrs Pilz has just made here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My most important credo in political work is to work clean and correct. You personally insult me if you make such accusations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have often discussed the need for airspace surveillance here in this House – and I already have a broad consensus that it is necessary to carry out active airspace monitoring. My job and my responsibility is to ensure complete airspace monitoring! If one were to get out of this contract, that would mean a stop to airspace surveillance. And this will undoubtedly not be allowed to happen to the Federal Government! We need that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would now like to inform you of some facts; unfortunately, this was not possible in the Court of Auditors, since you were not present. [[Abg. Murauer: Because they are gone!]] The Eurofighter Treaty provides that from 2007 to 2009, we will receive 18 Eurofighters from tranche 2. I am very grateful to my experts for ensuring that, in the event that the tranche 2 cannot be delivered in due time, they are responsible for ensuring that the Eurofighter of Branch 1 – factory new! – which are then adapted to the standard of tranche 2 at the expense of Eurofighter GmbH. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because they already knew that they are not operational!]] It is important to me to note that this is not about a new Eurofighter, but about the software. This is an additional powerful computer that is installed or modified. So, of course, we will have 18 Eurofighters of the tranche 2. The reason for the difficulties in delivery is that it was not possible in the British Parliament to give the company Eurofighter GmbH the Go in time for the tranche 2. That is why six Eurofighters of tranche 1 will be delivered, which will then be adjusted to tranche 2, at the expense of Eurofighter GmbH; twelve Eurofighters will be delivered from tranche 2. – That means that this is clearly contractual! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Open it!]] I am glad that our experts have inserted this possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand the criticism for the following reason: It has reviewed the entire business including contract to the Court of Auditors. And it has been pointed out in the Court of Auditors' report that the tranche 1 and tranche 2 possibilities are that, if tranche 2 is not delivered, tranche 1 will be delivered. The Court of Auditors has just recommended that it should be ensured that it is not at the expense of the BMLV. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why does he recommend this when it's inside anyway? That's a contradiction!]] That is exactly what we have secured contractually. But the Court of Auditors – please read in the report! – has not criticized this procedure. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Of course!]] During the parliamentary debate when the report was presented to you, you did not mention this. [[Call at the ÖVP – towards Green – have you slept?]] Secondly, I attended a meeting of the Court of Auditors in June 2005. To this end, I would like to quote from the report of Parliament's correspondence: The Minister said: "From 2007 onwards, Austria will be supplied with the first Eurofighters to ensure complete airspace surveillance. If the tranche 2 is not finished in time, then aeroplanes of tranche 1 will be delivered, but will be retrofitted at no additional cost.” So there can be no mention of a mystery or anything else; I have very seriously reported this to the Committee! [[Abg. May. Molterer: You weren't there! That's where you're gone! That's when you're running!]] Unfortunately, you weren't there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the issue of the publication of the contract: I have already said several times and repeat once again that disclosure due to the silence of office is not possible. Firstly, the Treaty contains technical provisions whose secrecy is required in the interests of comprehensive national defence. I refer to Article 20 para. 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act. Secondly, the contract contains commercial provisions whose secrecy is in the interests of the contracting partner. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, in the interest of the contractual partner!]] For these reasons, disclosure of the procurement contract is not possible. Ladies and gentlemen! For precisely these reasons, no military procurement contract has ever been disclosed. Mr Morak has already said this: In 1987 there was the same debate. The Subcommittee requested that the Draken Treaty be disclosed. And for exactly the reasons mentioned, that was not done at the time. [[Abg. Murauer: The SPÖ has forgotten that!]] You can certainly remember who was German Chancellor at the time, namely Dr. Franz Vranitzky. He spoke out and said that he felt it was good that this contract should not be published because it is not feasible! – And what was going on at that time still has to be applied today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to inform you about the state of development of the Eurofighter of tranche 1. There are already 58 Eurofighters of the tranche 1 in the use of troops. General Jumper, the head of the U.S. Air Forces, was surprised by the great performance of the Eurofighter, as I have said several times. Today I can give you a further up-to-date information regarding the satisfaction with the Eurofighter. The operator nations are very, very satisfied with this, because today, on 28 March, they are very happy with it. September, a Eurofighter of the Italian Air Force has again completed an excellent flight demonstration before international audiences in Ankara. On this occasion, Deputy Italian Defence Minister and Armed State Secretary Filippo Berselli announced that the Italian Air Force would take up regular operations with the Eurofighter at the turn of the year. – This, in turn, is a clear expression of the satisfaction with the Eurofighter also of the tranche 1. Ladies and gentlemen, We get contract-compliant 18 Eurofighters. We get this Eurofighter factory new in the ordered quality. The purchase of the Eurofighter was carefully reviewed by the Court of Auditors along with the contract, which resulted in the fact that the type decision in favour of the Eurofighters is true, that the best bidder investigation was coherent and comprehensible and that there was no evidence of manipulation and gift acceptance. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Wrong!]] Thus, complete airspace monitoring in Austria is possible in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15851	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. 7 minutes required speaking time, 10 minutes legal speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15878	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, air space surveillance has been referred to again and again, lastly by the Federal Minister, but also by the Secretary of State – very generously presented – and by Mr Murauer and Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. Let's stick to the truth! Let's stay serious, as you, dear friend Scheibner, have demanded – which we are always again and again. [[Abg. Neudeck: “Always again”!]] The purchase of the Eurofighter Typhoon of tranche 2 is the purchase of a combat aircraft designed for the air war and for the air. This has nothing to do with airspace surveillance. If I leave out all that Mr Scheibner has said, and I buy it up to the armament, I would like not to buy the “sinurous work” properly, then I will just like to stay with used F 16, as the Minister of Finance has said. Then I do not need this war apparatus at all, as Mr Finanzminister said. Mr Murauer claims that the Federal Government has financed all of this. – So please, to this day there is no coherent financing concept! And Mr Grasser, Federal Minister, continues to say that this war equipment cannot be financed and not manageable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Neudeck: You said to stick to the truth, Toni!]] They claim that the SPÖ is against airspace surveillance. – Here too, giving honor to the truth: You never gave us the chance to say no here. This federal government has passed over without If and But and has gone through this purchase! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one knows how things continue in Europe! We are in the process of implementing a common foreign and security policy. We are working together on the peace project Europe – and you are therefore coming with combat bombs that no one needs, neither in Europe nor in Austria! [[Abg. Murauer: Germany, England,... Spain...!]] There's no need here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Platter, Minister of State! Dear friend! You know exactly how I am: That pilot, who has been offered and whom you have ordered – namely, from tranche 2 – will not come because it is not finished because it is not ready for seriality, not now, not today! That's what all experts at EADS say, and I'm talking to many. He will not be finished before 2010/2012. This can be read in all technical journals, we learn that from all discussions and this will certainly also be known to colleagues Scheibner. They will only be fully operational in 2010/2012. And this, Mr Federal Minister, is in stark opposition to the tender criteria and to the procurement directives. This is for me a serious disregard for the duty of care of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Therefore, the only way out of this Eurofighter debacle is to get out of it as quickly as possible. Take advantage of the opportunity, Minister of State! Now you may have the last chance, because your gentlemen from the revision have also confirmed that the delivery time point 2007 is secured in the purchase contract, with consequences for non-compliance – with damages, with cover purchase or right of withdrawal. Make You really use this right of withdrawal, Mr Federal Minister, because the agreed delivery date 2007 cannot be kept! There will not be tranche 2 the way you ordered it, so the Eurofighter will again be a bit more expensive, ladies and gentlemen, because the Ural F-5, which has been used as an intermediate solution, is becoming a permanent annoyance – every week a panne! – and which will cost the Austrian population at least € 75 million, i.e. 1 billion schilling, will have to be extended! From the very beginning, we have said that Eurofighter procurement will prove to be a barrel without soil and that a procurement stop must be made. And in the department – still under your leadership, Mr Scheibner – all responsible generals, senior officials and experts, have spoken against the procurement of the Eurofighter. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Commission was for this!]] We have seen together the final act in which everything has been done, just not the purchase of Eurofighters. That, of course, surprised us all. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They have all been retired!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say that it is inconceivable how easily this Federal Government is dealing with heavy-earned tax money! You won't forgive the people. The bill will be presented to you for this, at the earliest in the country elections, as well as in the national elections. Then again the SPÖ will have the main responsibility in this country, and then there will be a no to this Eurofighter acquisition! [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e15996	The next speaker is Mr Amon. 6 minutes welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16029	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Toni Gaál, I listened very carefully. You said you talked to a lot of experts from EADS, they all said the device wasn't coming in line. This surprises me a little, because when the members of the Defense Committee moved to Manching to see the production there, you said you didn't want to go there or talk to the people of EADS. And that's a bit strange, dear Toni Gaál! Secondly, it is quite interesting that today it will be tried to criminalize once more members of the Federal Government, members of politics, if you can say so in general – because you are always more and more in general, you are not going to be specific –. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, the Styrian ÖVP!]] And that's extremely problematic, colleague Kogler – and it's all right that you call in from the first row what you can't do, as you know, because you're not sitting in your old-fashioned seat. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: (holding your hand in height) Please, Mr. Teacher!]] But it doesn't matter, it doesn't do anything! It fits me wonderfully, because you were the one who, even before the decision for the Eurofighter had been taken, submitted a question to the members of the Federal Government that all tender documents would have been manipulated in such a way that only a decision for the Saab flu could come out. But then the independent procurement commission has announced in the defence department: The Saab flu is not, it's the Eurofighter! Mr Kogler, I would have been very interested to know how the Greens would have responded if the decision had actually fallen in favour of the Saab flu. [[Abg. May. Kogler: such an unfavorable!]] That is extremely unacceptable what the Greens are doing here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What is the alternative model of SPÖ? – The alternative model of the SPÖ for the procurement of the Eurofighter is: no airspace surveillance aircraft. I understand that, I think, so correctly. [[Call the SPÖ:Hubschrauber!]] – I am just listening to the call “Hubschrauber!”. This also fits me wonderfully, because this morning, when we discussed the compensation of flood victims, you meant the SPÖ, we actually needed more helicopters. It's quite interesting that you were the ones who behaved the same way during the helicopter acquisition: You said we'd get combat helicopters. Then the accident in Galtür had to happen – when NATO helicopters helped us fly out the affected people – so that you agreed to purchase these helicopters, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gaál: That's not true!]] Their alternative is to be against it at first. They're against the fact that these planes are being purchased. I would like to invite Mr Gradwelt, my colleagues from the Aichfeld-Murboden region, to go to the Kaserne tentway with me – if it goes, in the next few days – and to say there that we do not obtain these aircraft. [[Abg. - Friday, 11 a.m.? Okay?]] 2 000 jobs would be there – 2 000 jobs in the region that would be there if we did not make this procurement. And you would have to answer that, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gradwelt, it is very funny that you are complaining about how this aircraft will be in the region, because: What is the SPÖ doing in response to the procurement and to the airport tent road? How does the SPÖ react? What's the Fohnsdorf mayor doing? – He builds a thermal bath in the flight snow! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] A thermal bath builds the Fohnsdorf mayor in flight snow, because the planes there are so loud. So with this project I wish you all the best, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Thank you for this statement!]] And as the last one, I would like to add – because I believe that this is simply not all right, that you are talking about everything so badly: After all, there are counter-businesses in a total volume of €4 billion. Part of these counter-actions has now been settled. [[Call the SPÖ:Where? Where?]] That's what hundreds, thousands of jobs are on! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Where are they, the jobs?]] And it is interesting that a party, who always claims to take care of every job, here tries nothing but to destroy jobs by their proposals. We are not available for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16215	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 6 minutes. Legal speaking time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16273	Mr President. Federal Minister! If you're done with the appointment coordination, I might be able to continue. It was once again extremely impressive to be able to experience the security-political competence of a social-democratic party here at the speaker's desk, a security-political competence that is very sad to me, because it saddens me because it is next to the SPÖ – thank God for the social democracy in Europe! – there is no other political group in this couleur, so negligently dealing with the security of its population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stadlbauer: Careful with the words!]] A SPD in Germany was also aware of such a security-political competence, a security-political competence that prevented the SPD from arguing against those 180 Eurofighters who bought Germany very well. But you stand here at this speaker's desk and say that all other European countries have no idea of security policy, you alone have the stone of the sages, because only Austria alone does not need any interception hunters, all other European nations were somehow dead there! [[Call the SPÖ:Applause! - No applause?]] This is developing again in the direction of the already very often stressed expression of the “safety driver”. Austria shudders or boasts itself – you can now see how you want to be one of the richest countries – but security policy is not worth us. The other states around Austria are supposed to do this for us, which are stupid enough to obtain such fighter aircraft. We hope they'll lend us if we need them. – That, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, will not be the case! But now on the content – as far as you can find one – of today's urgent request concerning the problem of tranche 1, tranche 2, I want to bring a little light into the massive dark of social democracy. First of all, if we consider it technically, we are not talking about a tranche 1 and a tranche 2, but about blocks; Block 5 would correspond to what you understand as tranche 1, and block 8 is what we understand as tranche 2. The fact is, and this has already been shown today that the difference between the two variants is very small. As far as delivery times are concerned, Mr Gaál, too, said that we are very pessimistic today that we will not get him. – This, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is the first hull middle of the Austrian Eurofighter fixed and finished in Manching. [[The speaker holds a corresponding poster in height.]] Here you go! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's why you have this awesome tone...!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaál: That was a preseries!]] What further saddens me is Mr Pilz's statement, which, in the interests of security policy, I guess, is that airspace surveillance is a security-political nonsense. This is not a security-political nonsense, because it is a responsibility of a state, especially of a neutral state – we have already held this principle discussion more often, I would like to say it again – and it is a duty of a state to guarantee the security of the population, and that is why it should also be possible to expect in Austria that at some point we will create a security-political consensus that will also cover the air sector. I am afraid that this is a pure wish of me, because you are simply not willing to really deal with this problem. Colleagues today have made a very interesting statement, which I did not in fact agree with: He expressed his confidence in the Court of Auditors. He said he trusted the Court of Auditors. – I am all the more surprised that the current urgent request deals with late attack on the competence and functionality of the Court of Auditors. For, contrary to your non-existent presence in the Court of Auditors, where the third report was concerned, the Court of Auditors has already clearly stated that tranche 1 will be delivered if tranche 2 is not available and then, later, will be retrofitted at the expense of the manufacturer company. [[Abg. May. Kogler: He didn't!]] Did he, or – I correct, to give Mr Kogler a right – he wrote that this is still open, but the Minister of State has clearly stated today that EADS will take over the costs. What has been widely spread by my colleague Herbs has also surprised me a little: He made a sidestep and explained in a press release in the summer that he would also have the F 5. – Interesting, since he was actually against airspace surveillance until now. It seems to have developed a step further, that at least the need for active airspace surveillance in Austria exists. Col. Herbs, I'd like to ask you to develop you even further. In the end, I hope, you will see that the Eurofighter was the right decision for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16378	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Kogler. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16399	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! In this debate, including State Secretary and Minister, the ÖVP speakers have managed not to address the essential elements of the urgent request, which would be a simple matter, but that will have its reasons, and I will now have to deal solely with this peculiar behavior, which has been given the best by the ÖVP here. In principle, because you have already wondered about the mere procedure, that the opposition, at least the Social Democrats, with this request only operates the contract disclosure: That's the first misunderstanding! This is, of course, the um- and op to pass you back to the left, once on the right, once so once again, as you argue here on the left. It cannot be that in the Republic of Austria individuals, few have the insight into anything and thus take the sovereignty of interpretation for themselves, what is and what is not, when it ultimately goes up and under the line of 5 billion €. That is why the first step is to get out of this contract – even in your logic! – that the Treaty is made public, then a few points would finally become clear, namely the possibilities of leaving the contract for the occasion. – That is exactly what you want to conceal and prevent, and therefore you are not prepared – contrary to all useful uses – to disclose at least in the relevant committees of Parliament the Treaty provisions! It may not even be a matter of revealing all the Treaty provisions, but you obviously refuse to present to Parliament even the relevant commercial provisions. Given this fact, of course, I am also skeptical! I will also be skeptical, because it is not about military secrets – if you have this argumentation in the shield – but it is only about looking at the conditions under which the Republic can say goodbye to this absurd business in a cost-effective way. But that's just what you want to do, that's so simple! They have in no way expressed themselves on the disclosure requirements of Mr Pilz. You just said you'd reject that. It is about two kinds of disclosures in this context: first, the disclosure of the contract, at least in the relevant elements, and second, the disclosure of your party finances. That's what no one's going on about. That is reserved for you, but you will still have to talk about it. [[Abg. Murauer: (not from his seat) That's why we should disclose the party finances just because you make a bold claim?]] Of course! [[Abg. Murauer: This is unbearable in the long run!]] They have had the opportunity to comment on it, and therefore it is very strange to...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16452	Mr Murauer, intermediate calls only from my own seat, otherwise I will give you a call for an order. I call Mr Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16480	But that's not the problem! . I just wanted to turn to Mr Murauer, who – now we are going through the debate in chronological terms – did not say a word about the fact that, as he was told, he should have said in public that Parliament would have decided on this withdrawal agreement. - Say something about it! Cry for me again! Where has Parliament decided? Parliament has not decided at all! I'm telling you something worse: Parliament has been brought to the fore several times by ministers of this Republic, and this is the reason for this motion for a resolution. All the more objectionable, I almost have to say, it's that you don't go into it at all, but risk a thick lip. Mr. Federal Minister, you have been justified in any committee where hops and malts have long lost in the parliamentary debate to have given anything of themselves towards tranche 2. [[Abg. Neudeck: Please, hop and malt!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the Agriculture Committee!]] It is not true that the Federal Minister would not use this term, and if the military is not in order, then he must be informed. ==References== In October 2004 the Court of Auditors expressly stated that it had been decided on the so-called second tranche. That's what he emphasizes, and he sends... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have held the presidency, but he has not allowed it to be announced later even in an OTS! ==References== OJ 2004 No 238, p. One has deliberately opted for the second tranche. It's going on a tour like this! We have four such proofs here in this motion for a resolution alone. Parliament has been brought to light, among other things, but also because of all the contractual procedures in chronology. Now – and now it becomes really interesting again – that in May/June/July 2007 no Eurofighters of the type tranche 2 will be available, because the entire chronology of the award act is one, where a piece – if we do not want to use this word today, I say it anyway – has been renewed in a manipulative way. It is true what Mr Amon of the ÖVP said: We originally pointed out that in the field of counter-contracts the tender was actually manipulated for the first time, because the documents of the company Saab Gripen 1 : 1 led to the tender. This is an unimaginable process. From my point of view, the Minister of Economic Affairs, who was responsible at the time, should have resigned. The invitation to tender had been manipulated, and we have pointed this out. The fact that in the meantime the wind turned within the black and blue coalition and you turned to Eurofighter is another construction site. You now only have a more stringent procurement problem, because in the call for tender there has indeed been a lot of reference to the type of Saab flu. You then decided differently – for reasons which need to be discussed again and again and again and also in an investigation committee which you can no longer prevent with other parliamentary majority groups. They have opted for the type of Eurofighter, although the delivery should initially take place in 2005. Now he should have been there, the Eurofighter. – But he is still looking at the way Mr. Fauland presented him earlier: some cigar tube with a few lines on it, so he is looking at it right now. However, it should have been delivered in May 2005 if it had been in conformity with the invitation to tender. – That’s why we say: Manipulation, urgent suspicion of displacement! So it is, and that continues on a tour. We have pointed out at least 20 times that the Eurofighter GesmbH company itself will not be able to deliver in 2007, in order to point out precisely that the historic window of the contract will then open. - What did you do? It is obvious that you have amended the contract which you do not want to present, in this direction also in good time in favour of Eurofighter GesmbH: If the company can't deliver it according to order, it's supposed to deliver what's right there. That is why the German Minister of Defense is running around the area, looking for what is just there, and that is to be delivered. - That's your contract. Congratulations! Competent, committed, cost-effective – so you have always presented it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A failure series of the special class, and in this respect you are subject to investigation. We will come to the next contradiction in your presentation. It was returned to the Court of Auditors. It is true that the Court of Auditors says that he has recognized this, but then points out: In the event that this occurs, one should make sure, as a Republic, that we do not incur any additional costs. . So it cannot be as you say that the Treaty already states that this additional cost would automatically have to be borne by Eurofighter GesmbH, otherwise the Court of Auditors would not have had to make this statement that you have indicated here. So get caught up in a contradiction in the next one and flee into silence and sitting and yes-only nothing-open-legs. That's your strategy. In fact, you will, of course, fuel our energies – because social warmth has been mentioned here – to use this investigation committee if there is the necessary majority. We shall vote on this today at the end of this sitting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] You can still be excited about it for a long time, because I am now explaining to you the proceedings in the Court of Auditors, because this is not to be mentioned in the Minutes either. There were many meetings of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where there was a refusal of information. The main witnesses should be prevented by a majority from making statements in Parliament. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do “witnesses” mean, Mr. Cot? That's not an investigation committee!]] You have prevented the charge of the highest military, all of which have spoken out against this procurement for precisely these reasons that stand out today. They have also prevented quite different steps of investigation. Instead of sending us documents, you have read about some exchange of letters, which should calm down the Members because those officials were no longer allowed to declare. In this way, and without continuing to negotiate the Treaty in the Court of Auditors, the opposition did not make any sense. That explains our step. Finally, open up and don't do the facts! We have therefore moved out because you do not disclose. The topic is now back to the discussion – rehabilitating this mistake! - So much for it. It is not yet so far that the opposition is barrier keepers for the passing of a completely missing or irresponsible government policy. There you have to look at your own ranks in order to drive up such inaccurate Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16566	Mr Kogler, I would like to give you the opportunity to take back the accusation of the "unscrupulous Members". Don't you want to go back to the speaker's desk? It would be nice if we treat ourselves with some respect. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16597	Mr President. I am referring to the events in the Court of Auditors, and for this reason I will maintain this accusation. By the way, I have said here several times that Members of a certain group have given their conscience to the wardrobe, but you have obviously not been so excited.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16630	I'll give you a call for order. I must say, however, that we must not be surprised if our prestige is constantly falling in public if we accuse ourselves of it. [[Numerous calls to the SPÖ.]] The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16666	Mr President, I think you should also address these words to the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! First of all, I would like to put my colleagues on the right side of Mr Amons Polemik a little bit. Mr Amon, would You so kind to listen to me? – If he doesn't, he doesn't think he's necessary. I would nevertheless like to do the following: The spa, which is to be built in the municipality of Fohnsdorf, is financed, among other things, by the competent ÖVP Council of State. There is a decision by the state government. - Number one. Number two: This beautiful invitation to the Flyerhorst Hinterstoisser to Tentweg, which Mr Amon has spoken here from the speaker's desk to colleagues Gradwelt, would very much have accepted. He spoke briefly with Minister Platter, but Minister Platter did not approve of this. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an ÖVP policy: One is spoken, and the other is done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Platter, you can do what most of the Austrian people want today, namely to get out of the Treaty on the purchase of these war equipment, the Eurofighter. By the way, there has always been reason for an exit. Let me remind you of just a few details, only because of the constant accusations made by Mr Murauer and also by Mr Scheibner, that we have always had the same arguments. That's not true! There's something new going on again and again. [[Abg. Murauer stands at the government bank and speaks, the speaker turns his back, with Federal Minister Platter.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] September 2003...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16727	May I ask Mr Murauer not to turn his back on the speaker! I call Mrs Stadlbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16746	As early as September 2003, the German Court of Auditors criticised the Eurofighter on the grounds of technical shortcomings; Criticism, for example, of the fact that there are dangerous system errors in the altitude indicator at certain speeds. Or: that if the ground is thin and temperatures are below 5 degrees, the combat machines should not at all eliminate the fact that essential systems would not be installed, in short that they would not be functional. By the way, and that is why I mentioned this again, Federal Minister Platter, after getting to know this criticism, argued that it is the first tranche, but Austria will receive machines from the second tranche. In May 2004, the study of the British Ministry of Defence and in September 2004 again reported on technical problems, which were bagatellized as childhood diseases. It was also about the fact that the fighter plane was practically indisputable. I do not want to go further on the financial burden. The costs explode formally from month to month. At present we see: Eurofighter has delivery difficulties! In principle, we could withdraw from the contract at any time in the event of bad or non-fulfilment by the contractual partner. But now we do not know exactly because this contract is not publicly available, whether these difficulties in delivery or the wrong delivery are a bad or non-fulfilment of the contract or not. We just don't know. It has also not really convinced the attempt of Minister Platter to make a statement. We must therefore assume that this is not part of the Treaty, because I think every reasonable person, every ordinary citizen, every ordinary citizen would not include such a pass in a contract of sale, and I assume that this Treaty has also been negotiated by reasonable people. But if this passus is actually contained in it, it is all the more remarkable, since when the contract was concluded in 2003, it seems that the delivery cannot be observed – and I call it grossly negligent. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is too complicated for me now!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will try everything and make every effort to get out of this treaty. So we want to take the opportunity again today to get out of this unnecessary, sintering acquisition of these war equipment without any greater financial damage. There are questions about questions, ambiguities about ambiguities, and the only way to get out of this mistake would be to open the Treaty with the aim of getting out of this Treaty. That would be possible now. This government does not, quite the contrary, have a massive interest in the continuation of this Treaty. I think there must be very exciting things in it that make it impossible for this government to get out of this treaty. And as long as you do not make this contract publicly available, we have to assume that you have something to hide. Today, Secretary of State Morak has again argued that there would be an opinion from the Constitutional Service and that it would be a matter of constitutional concern to publish information on the Treaty. The problem is: Mr Murauer seems to know more. It seems that this opinion does not apply to him. He informs us that the Eurofighter Treaty has provided for all possibleities that the Eurofighter Treaty ensures that Austria would not have any disadvantages due to delays in delivery or development. I really wonder how he knows that. [[Abg. Murauer: Because I inquire!]] Or may this constitutional opinion apply only to the representatives of the opposition parties? Of course, that can be too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: As far as you are concerned, I inquire!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What has the Court of Auditors found or not found? – There is the so-called renunciation. That means we have to pay first, and if there are shortcomings, we can only try to get these money back afterwards. This is very untypical of a purchase contract. Or: There is no arbitration agreement. If we want to recover sums wrongly paid back, we have to dispute the legal course. This, in turn, means: very complex, very expensive, very uncertain and bad for the buyer, bad for the Republic of Austria. There is no court settlement agreement. That is, in the “worst case” we must assume that the place of jurisdiction is abroad. This also means again: extremely expensive, very complex, the output is uncertain, and it is very negative for the buyer, for the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Neudeck: The exit is always uncertain at a court!]] Today, Minister Platter has also said very frankly that he cannot disclose the contract to the contracting party for commercial reasons. It's exciting when he admits that. I think that if nothing is agreed, sales rights will now apply. In this case, an international company is preferred to a Republic. In the case of an international company, the question arises as to which law is then responsible. – All unexplained questions that ask themselves again and again. The most important issue is the question: Who benefits from this, and why can it be taken care of? Mr State Secretary! Minister! You now have the opportunity of reconnaissance. You will not do it again, but you have to please this question – everyone and everyone can rhyme the answer to it –: Why don't you submit the contract? Who benefits from the non- file? Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[16:43]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16840	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I announce that Members Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigation committee on the procurement of fighter aircraft. The debate on this has not been called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be taken after completion of the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes, remaining time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e16877	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand the arguments that Mr Stadlbauer has just brought. It argues that the court could be a foreigner, and believes that this would lead to the loss of Austria. That is, if he were in Austria, Austria would win from the outset. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] – The Austrian courts are so partial, I don't think. Mrs Stadlbauer! You're always saying the plane should be there already. - You don't want him at all, but he'll be late for you. They say it's a combat bomb that's too well equipped. – If it's a little less equipped, it's too little for you. Col. Cap comes out, as often as he is urgent, climbs half high and then falls off. After that, my colleague comes herbs, who cannot fall down because you can only stumble from its height. Colleagues are in the permanent election campaign for four years, and now before the elections in the Styria very special. He goes out of the Court of Auditors under the leave of a press service, and he is actually only taking part in the debate. But here he says that the Court of Auditors is the only serious issue. The Court of Auditors has examined everything. The Court of Auditors has strengthened the rulings of the opposition. He has, of course, practiced criticism, no, in such a business there is always something to criticise, learn and do better, ladies and gentlemen! In addition, Mr Herba, I think, is constantly talking about black money. If I were colleague herbs, I'd say black money in red bags! Ladies and gentlemen! If I listen to colleagues Cap and also to colleagues Kogler here when they bring their conspiracy theories – money comes from there, it will be mocked, there it has been mocked – then for me the question arises in what environment they have grown up in. [[Abg. May. Kogler: In an ÖVP environment!]] I then looked at that, because I thought it couldn't be – according to the motto of my grandmother: As the Schelm thinks, he is!, Col. Cap – and has come across an interesting speech by a colleague from the country day who has listed 57 scandals of the SPÖ for the last 20 years – and he has said that they are not all. 100 SPÖ-Mandatare, Officials, Members and Related Economic Managers were examined in connection with these scandals, through investigation committees, Disciplinary Commissions, Procuratorships et cetera. There are names such as Sekanina, Blecha, Huber, Hinterreiter, another signatory scandal in Carinthia, a stech card scandal in Carinthia – I'm saving you the details – and we're going on to go over apples, Kirchweger, Tautner, Haiden, Schmidt, “Volkshilfe” action, where 73 million were collected and only 16 million were transferred. [[Abg. Eder: Rosenstingl!]] Mr Eder, I'm at the SPÖ right now, but if you mean the one case, Rosenstingl, then I can say that it has not coloured on the party, just as it seems to be the case with you! [[Abg. Eder: We know enough!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When I look at the former country president Hofmann from the “Volkshilfe”, in Parliament the “Euroteam” committee, millions have disappeared from the “Euroteam” – with which names such as climate, climate son et cetera are associated. [[Abg. Gradwell: Your colleague, do you lose a sentence on the matter as well? A sentence on the matter!]] Additional names are available: Gratz, Androsch, “Lucona”, Noricum, “Consum”, WEB, Rieger-Bank, Bank Burgenland. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That is absolutely not the matter!]] All this is about it because it explains why colleague Cap sees scandals in his urgent everywhere. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Herbs must not, Neudeck may! The President has at...!]] Why? This is because this is about the procurement of the Eurofighters and Mr Cap wants to get out of the Treaty, but this is not what he wants. He would like to put on the Internet a protocol of the Subcommittee, which is confidential, or else would like to chat about it if it is well placed - a contract that is the Eurofighter Treaty, which is confidential, here in order to discuss it in all the details?- Oh, my God! Of course, it is not possible for a company like EADS to present this contract here, otherwise these contractual content – and as I have heard it, they are very positive for Austria – to be automatically required by everyone on further sales once they are on the table. Among these affairs, in which I see the moral image of the SPÖ or the origin of fear of this black money in red bags, is the “consumer” affair, where there were 25 billion debts and 17 000 unemployed and 700,000 cooperatives were left alone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Bank Burgenland, Bau-Kartell, Vrannitzky-Fluchkanda, Marizzi, Mühl – ladies and gentlemen, it would be a lot more to mention names and scandals here, but so that it doesn't mean that I'm not talking about anything enough, I'm coming to the end of my ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I do not know how much request this is on this subject. You always get a proper and detailed answer. However, I note that from one request to another, you do not process the answers from the previous time in any way. They're nagging her. The Eurofighter has no carrying surfaces, he has wings. That's not the second tranche, but you're using a different name. They always come up with the same theme, want to cook something here – and drop off every time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17006	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on Amendment No 699/A (E) tabled by Mr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues, on disclosure of the contracts relating to the procurement of fighter aircraft. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Neugebauer: The applicant is not here!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[16:51:37]] Short debate on the reply to the question 3165/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17053	We are now entering the brief debate on the question of the reply of the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 3165/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Republic of Germany State Secretarys, either government or by word, should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17093	We are extremely dissatisfied with the answer to this question. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We too!]] It was addressed to the Minister for Finance. It was about compliance with tax law through the Art History Museum, and there are things that you can't just let go through like that. If the basic philosophy, the director of the Art History Museum Seipel, is on the 20th. May 2005 publicly stated, school makes, then we can save ourselves all the control facilities, then we can even have a proper conduct, a proper accounting, a proper management of the institutions of the Republic – this institution is at least €20 million in tax money – then we can save ourselves all of that. Seipel says – I quote; it surprises me that he is still the director of the Art History Museum at all – : [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens]] It cannot be assumed that such a huge business like the Kunsthistorische Museum really meets 100 percent of all requirements. Perhaps, as in all such large institutions, there were sluts, negligences, but that remained within the scope of the normal. What does “in the framework of the normal ” mean? What does this director of the Art History Museum mean? – A small proof there, perhaps a small bill there, that there is an incompatibility, perhaps to forget some in the tax declaration – whatever, that’s “in the context of the normal”. Eye twinkling as a principle in an institution, in an establishment, in an institution of world judgment! The Art History Museum is not – and I do not say that respectfully – a Würstelbude, but it is one of the very large museums worldwide, not only in Europe. And then the director says his attitude openly to the public, says how he has conducted it so far. But that's not surprising when Mrs. Gehrer says you owe Seizel praise; on 23. ==References== ==References====External links== She says: There is no mismanagement in the Art History Museum, no waste. If she is constantly exhibiting this personal license she has issued, I wonder in the final effect, however: Then why did an operating test occur? [[Abg. Neudeck: An operating test is nothing bad!]] Then why did she suddenly mean that a four-eye principle should be introduced? It's all paletteti, everything is fine – Seiel says that what's not right is “in the framework of the normal” – but it suddenly introduces the four-eye principle, and that's for several museums; it costs more about a corner house. This way you try to talk about it. That's where I have to ask: Then why does not a museum director, not only responsible for all of this, but also address the matter with this philosophy? I would like to remind you once again of the Court of Auditors' report, which reads as follows: “The Kunsthistorische Museum has repeatedly failed to comply with the principles of regulatory accounting and accounting. Documents were only presented in a hesitant and incomplete manner. missing. An overview of the business incidents and the economic situation of the audited body was often not possible within a reasonable time. The economic supervision of the Kunsthistorische Museum by the “Federal Ministry” “as well as the curatorium of the Kunsthistorische Museum was in need of improvement.” I don't think anything else could be mentioned in a report if one should not write: Chaos, Desaster – everything else is actually just a question of the courts and the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Neudeck: Has little to do with the request!]] No, no, no, If that is so, then you should delete the word “return” from the devil, for then there is no more resignation at all, then we leave it. It's inconceivable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Total Theme Miss!]] That's not a problem. I am referring to the second point, which is something else, which is criticised in the Court of Auditors' report, namely the secondary activities. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Madam President Prammer would have...]] Mrs Partik-Pablé, hearing You're really too close now! Seipel is not only director of the Kunsthistorisches Museum, he still has the position as Managing Director of the Museums Collection, Deputy Chairman of the Austrian Archaeology Council, he is in the Board of Trustees of the ORF, is Deputy Chairman of the Programme Committee, Public Council, extensive consul activity, curator at numerous exhibitions. [[Abg. Neudeck: So that didn't go into the prammer!]] Of course, he should have reported all of this to his superior service authority – of course, that has not happened. [[Abg. Neudeck: President Prammer had already called for this!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Prammer had already called the matter!]] The question is also: How about this stately salary, the surcharges, the lucrative off-balance sheet income with taxation? And I have to say that this is an aspect that can't be easily overlooked, because this criticism has also been made. I quote the Court of Auditors' Committee of 22 May. June 2005:... where, on the basis of the results of the Court of Auditors report, an audit of the art-historical museum was initiated by the competent financial authorities, because it was suspected that sales taxes were not paid correctly, that wage taxes, social security contributions by Director Seiel were not paid. Mrs Partik-Pablé, you will probably have looked at this: We have asked 14 questions about the operational examination of the Kunsthistorisches Museum – an operational examination that was made, although the Minister Seizel has issued this Persilschein. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Be glad!]] Don't do that, you know the Court of Auditors report, too. Discuss this once with a private entrepreneur. Go to the Chamber of Commerce, to the Industrial Union and talk to people who work with their own money, not tax money! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But this has nothing to do with the question, let us be honest, honourable Member.]] Let us make a general assembly in the Industrial Union; I would like to come there and quote from the Court of Auditors' report. I would also like to go to the Ministry of Finance, and there too we could make a general assembly. Let's talk about all this! I tell you, the result will be: This man has to resign in the final effect, regardless of the legal consequences. [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr President! That has nothing to do with the request!]] What's the Ministry of Finance doing? In response to the question we have raised, Mrs Partik-Pablé, there has actually been nothing but the interpretation of § 48a in the sense of “taste”. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Total Theme Miss!]] That's the truth. Of course, it was a little surprised, because that would have been a little too short an answer if one had said: As Minister of Finance, I rested on questions 1 to 14 to say: „Tastes!“ This is actually the statement you made here, but we are not satisfied with this. We do not take note of them. This interpretation is unacceptable, because it ultimately also reveals the attitude you, Mr Finanzminister, have towards Parliament: as little as possible to do with it, only if you have to, and otherwise pass by with the car as quickly as possible. – This is in the final effect Your attitude towards this, and we cannot take note of that. This is a democratic institution, we live in a parliamentary democracy. There are such absoluteistic monarchs, such Electors as Mr Seipel, where the house is held like an absoluteist monarchy. Interestingly, this says the director of the Liechtenstein Museum, you still have to say that, a private museum. He said the museums are run like absolute monarchies. And so does he, the Director-General Seilel, who is the Court of Auditors, the Parliament, the public, the control, the taxpayers... – No, he feels most comfortable as a curfew, switching and acting, as you want, and rules that you don't know. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Go!]] We do not take note of this, that is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17311	Ladies and gentlemen! The question was articulated by Mrs Partik-Pablé. – That was the matter, because he has explained the questions he has not received. The Minister will say what legal basis. But that was the matter. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser to speak. His speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17336	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I do not wish to comment on Mr Cap's statements on the subject, as far as the Museum of Art is concerned, because it does not fall within my competence, but would like to return to your question of 29. In June, a number of tax questions have been raised as to whether the VAT questions were whether the question was whether the question was whether the specific notice or the decision-making, repayment claims and the like were concerned. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I didn't answer you here: Tastes, and that's all I can tell you. I would never be so rude to do such a thing, let alone, ladies and gentlemen, I would be in breach of laws. That is to say, my highest premise – and I think that applies to me as well as to my predecessor – was to comply with laws and to answer questions accordingly in the context of the laws. And that is why I asked for an understanding of the fact that, in accordance with the legal provisions of § 48a of the Federal Tax Code, I cannot and must not answer and answer the questions asked about the obligation to issue legal secrecy. Now I understand that you don't really do that. Therefore, I would like to add that, as the Federal Minister for Finance, one is a body entrusted with the tasks of the Federal Administration, within the meaning of Article 20(1). 3 of the Federal Constitution, as you know, and that therefore, on the one hand, in general, I am still in the silence of office or even in the administrative function in accordance with the provisions of § 48a of the Federal Tax Code in conjunction with § 74 Z. 4 Criminal Code had to respect the obligation of custody of confidentiality and that the violation of these confidentiality obligations under § 251 Financial Criminal Law and § 310 Criminal Code would be punishable, because any opinion I have made regarding the measures you have questioned, or even the measures that you have not taken could give indirect or direct information on the tax-related welfare or the misconduct of taxable persons, thus infringing the overwhelmingly legitimate interest of the taxable person. That is to say, I agree that there is obviously a certain conflict of interest here, on the one hand the right of Parliament, at the request of all relevant information, and on the other hand, the fundamental right to data protection or to official confidentiality as laid down in the Constitution, and the obligation of confidentiality to do so. This is a field of tension to be taken into account in the individual case and to be assessed accordingly. I was told by constitutional judges that, according to the ruling interpretation, there is not an absolute priority of one or the other standard, but one has to examine in a specific case whether, by granting a priority in favour of interpolation law, the limit of permitted fundamental rights intervention would be violated. I can only say to you that I absolutely and fully recognise the importance of the democratic instrument of interpolation. However, I am equally concerned about respect for the legitimate interests of secrecy. In the specific case, therefore, I could not answer the questions you asked me because I would have violated § 48a of the Federal Tax Code, according to my experts. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is not a constitutional right!]] For example, in order to see that not only this question has been answered, I may reply to my answer from 12. ==References== At that time, the suspicion was expressed that there were tax malversations in the area of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, or that President Verzellnitsch was directly addressed in this question. At the time, I also replied, in contradiction with the Socialist Group, that I cannot give any detailed information on the person of the President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, bearing in mind the legitimate interest and the obligation to keep secret. I have tried to copy a little bit of what practice there has been, and I can give you another example that shows well, it is obviously a matter of which side you are sitting on, whether you are in government or opposition. It has the Federal Minister, except Edlinger, one of them. Mr Scheibner's parliamentary request, which was received in May 1999, was answered by the title "The refusal of information by the Federal Minister for Finance". The accusation of the liberals at the time was that the Federal Minister obviously did not provide any information, so he refused. Edlinger replied that “a long and generally practised law is based” which he then executes on many sides. – I can do this if you want to, and quote it. I think I can save you, but he does on several sides what I have also tried to present briefly, and has also given no information. Ladies and gentlemen! I may refer to the answer of one on 15 May. A request received on 1 May 1998 ‘On the subject of audit at the OeKB (Austrian Control Bank)’. In this case, Edlinger has also pointed to ‘the obligation to keep secret in law’. I may refer to one on 13 May. In November 1998, a request was made ‘respectively suspected of tax evasion in the ÖGB printing and media group’. Edlinger also did not reply to this by reference to § 48a of the Federal Tax Code. I should like to refer to the question raised by the honourable Member, Mr Oellinger, on 18 November. In June 1998, ‘a suspicion of tax evasion by Scientology’. In the reply to the question, Minister Edlinger also pointed out the obligation to issue legal secrecy in accordance with § 48a of the Federal Tax Code. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I may also refer to a request from 29 February. ==References== That was the Federal Minister of Climate. This was a ‘payment tax obligation on the part of the ÖGB from a limited loan claim’. The reply also referred to the obligation to keep confidentiality in accordance with § 48a of the Federal Tax Code. I could continue, ladies and gentlemen. I have a number of other examples here. What I just wanted to say is documented on very concrete examples: There is obviously a practice of federal finance ministers, no matter which group they have heard, to refer to the obligation to commit the obligation of confidentiality. Therefore, I ask for understanding that I could not answer these questions. And I think there's also a good right to that. From the point of view of my predecessors and from my point of view, it makes relatively little sense to go into a party-political debate on fiscal matters. If you wish to change the practice, the legislator is of course free to change the laws in such a way that, as the executive's organs, we can provide you with relevant information, which I would like to do. As long as this is not the case, I ask you to understand that we have to comply with the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17397	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Brinek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17421	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister Grasser, I would like to thank you for the careful explanation of the reasons for your reply, for the coherent and consistent interpretation – with all the support of the right of interference. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Is it clear that this is the case in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For us, for my group and me, this answer is sufficient because we believe that the right applies to all: to Josef Cap, Wilfried Seipel, Susi Huber – or as always to citizens in that state. You can't even want this legal view if it fits you right now, and the other time just another one. You should be very kind to that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that in a company with hundreds of employees – like the Kunsthistorisches Museum – and a volume of companies of several million can also happen once again will not be disputed. Now let someone come out and say that this must not be the case and can be the case. Evidence was submitted. The Court of Auditors report provides information on the answers to the questions. It is only about whether or not it was responded sooner or later. We have discussed all of this extensively, and there is no reason to doubt the correct answer to the question. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to remind my colleague Cap, who then also referred to the museum and the achievements of the Art History Museum, that it was not least a well-known journalist, namely Alfred Worm, who said that Seipel must be measured by his success, and there have been some good examples of success in recent times. I am pleased to celebrate the reopening of the collection of antiques for the Austrians, for the tourists, for the visitors, for the visitors, if we follow Alfred Worm. A “Presse-Cultur-Special” contribution pointed out that the collection of antiques, whose reopening is an essential merit of Wilfried Seipel, was taken a great and decisive step in the history of this house and an important great act, so that Wilfried Seipel and his team – including the exhibition maker, the architect Hans Hoffer – would be very grateful and congratulated from this point on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With this restoration of the collection of antiques from a imperial private collection, it was important to make a place of education and to exhibit 2,300 works of art according to modern security requirements and museumological ideas. I am pleased that the culture of remembering enjoys greater attention again, and as support I can bring you some quotations, such as one of Fritz Krinzinger, the director of the Austrian Archaeological Institute, who wrote: “In Vienna as a research location, university city and world city, the collection of antiques is a cultural institution of first rank”. Another quote by Peter Engelmann, philosopher and publisher: “Historical depth is the basis of our civilisation.” – This principle, we should follow this maxim – and not do something bad, because it does not stand by the taste, not by the nose. I thank you and add: Federal Minister Grasser, continue this kind of questioning practice: in the sense of the artists, in the sense of the art managers, in the sense of the representatives of Parliament and all Austrians! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17489	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Herz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17510	Madam President. Mr Grasser, this reply to the question was quite embarrassing, because you have made completely improper comparisons! It is not irrelevant whether these are federal institutions or not. I think you, Minister of State Grasser, have a little bit of a problem like Mr Seiel, but you, too, are always private and state. It stays with: It is a violation of the National Council that this request has not been answered. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In general, the pleasure of information to this Federal Government is to end. As far as the Art History Museum is concerned, for example, it has still worked quite a bit. However, if I asked Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer what cost was spent on Mr. Morak's birthday party, her answer was that the Court of Auditors found that the Museum of Art was spent €5 736.88 on the birthday celebration of Mr. State Secretary Franz Morak. Mrs Brinek, I think it is incredible that you are defending something like that! And it is noblely expressed that this from the Art History Museum... – No, the population has had to pay all this! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: These were sponsors!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] The Austrians, who naturally have to pay their own birthday celebrations themselves, now have to pay birthday celebrations for Mr. State Secretary Morak! It's a horrific thing! I am waiting for the day when Mr Morak finally repays this, Mrs Brinek! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it's even better: I also allowed myself to ask whether Mr President-in-Office Morak has also been given a gift and, if so, with which and how much it has cost. And: Who has to bear the cost of any birthday present? Do you know, Mrs Brinek, what Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer answered? – These questions do not concern enforcement. You have to keep up with this: What is that supposed to mean? Why didn't Minister Gehrer say: No, of course, State Secretary Morak has not received a birthday present, because the cost there has already been paid. Federal Minister's reply: This is not an object of execution. - That's great! So State Secretary Morak obviously not only paid his party from the taxpayer, but also a gift! That's really incredible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Let's take a look at the Gironcoli Museum and the Herberstein case. Mrs Wolfmayr, as early as September 2004, I knew there was a lot in the arrogance, and I said it openly. Mrs Wolfmayr, at the time, she criticized the “deutious cynicism” of the SPÖ delegate herbs and said: “The ability and great achievements of Andrea Herberstein are undisputed in Styria and Austria as a whole.” Mr Finanzminister, you must also explain what happened to this million euro you have given for the Gironcoli Museum, because...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17575	Mr Herzegovina, on the subject of questioning.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17596	The system of the Kunsthistorisches Museum is, as it were, 1 : 1 to implement what happened in the matter of Herberstein and Gironcoli Museum. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] For example: Black money has flown there – and this is not little, as the “Small Newspaper” reported. Mr Finanzminister, I hope that you will soon be working there. It is very important to know what happened there – that must also interest colleagues Grillitsch – because as long as it is not known who in Styria are the Black Money Payers, the Minister of Finance can no longer give good conscience amounts to Styria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17628	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when we are discussing a question answer, and I call on you to come back there.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17644	Madam President, of course this must have all the consequences. Therefore: Mr Morak has to pay back the costs for this birthday party, as well as the costs for the cost there. Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has remained guilty of the answer as regards the gift for Mr Morak. What gift was that? What did it cost?, et cetera. And the Minister of Finance – and I would like to say this again – will have to take care of the black money payments of the ÖVP in Styria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel will probably have to look for a new election singer, because the previous one is already practicing relevant passages of the Verdi opera “Nabucco”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17686	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17707	Madam President. Federal Minister! Where are we now? – Styria, Herberstein, Gironcoli Museum? It is now about discussing a request from the Minister of Finance in a tax matter. [[Abg. Dr. One: Unanswered!]] Colleagues To your comment ‘Unanswered’: Former Minister of Finance Hickersberger... No, Edlinger, Hickersberger is the coach, Edlinger is the president; I'm not a football player; please apologize! I believe it is unacceptable for a minister to answer in this way. But this law, which a minister has to answer, you have to take part in the SPÖ. Your former colleague Edlinger... – This has been decided here; [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] You, my colleague, have probably agreed. Minister Edlinger made an answer to the question; at that time the questioners were free, in opposition. I don't want to spread this for so long now. At the time, Minister of Finance, Edlinger, at the same time, even a little more down from above, explained: That's not what I'm telling you! – Yes, this is unacceptable, Mr Cap, but you made such laws by the SPÖ! They do the same in the Committees: In the Court of Auditors, for example, you are always too few in opposition rights. – But these rights have not been ours, but a majority that has mainly consisted of SPÖ – and something ÖVP. These laws now govern and control Austria. We have a President of the Court of Auditors who examines – and then the Chairman of the Court of Auditors comes and speaks of “witnesses” instead of “witnesses”. Please, where are we?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] In a committee of the Court of Auditors, the information is not “witnesses”, Mr. Kräub! You'll be discussing for nights, and we'll be bringing you in. My colleague, Mr Fauland, and I have spent nights discussing with you – but then you will be tried to stand up as a careless Member! You don't have to let that happen! These are, as it were, your laws to be fulfilled! If Mr. Grasser says that he cannot answer it because it forbids him the laws, then that was, if it is actually unacceptable, Mr Cap, then as unacceptable as today! That's probably where we can meet. It's nice to say: The location determines the position. That was held in 1999. I don't want to read it to you right now. Interesting is: I have the suspicion that, when you made this request, you were not at all concerned with the answer. You knew anyway that you won't get it. I know you have a good archive, of course, and you've been looking at what Edlinger said. – The nobler said: Tastes! Grasser also has a good archive, and what will he say? – He will say something similar! Edlinger didn't take everything. This answer will probably still be somewhere, some computer he will already have forgotten to delete. It's all – as I suppose – available in the archive. But you didn't want to know what's really going on, that's not important at all, but you wanted to protect Seizel! You want to change it! Mr Matznetter asks if I have also celebrated my birthday there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Mr Cap, if a Minister or a Secretary of State commits his birthday in the course of such a great celebration, this is usually a sponsoring meeting where you want to transport something. I criticize that too. I'm totally criticizing that. However, I do not want to celebrate my birthday, even if I am State Secretary, Minister or Federal Chancellor, at the invitation of a museum director in a museum. If I have to pay for a celebration at the Heurigen for my birthday, I would like to celebrate with friends I choose, then I do not want you to invite me hundreds of people and then I will be presented as a break program, so rather the jewelry for this program, instead of celebrating my birthday. It's not elegant! Now, if you pay me my Heir or I'll have him pay off Seipel, you can get upset if I've invited my friends there. But if Seizel or anyone else, in order not to personify it, determines who may come, and invites hundreds of people to bring his institution or his museum to the public, and anyone's birthday is used to sell it well, then it's not elegant, but it's not as tragic as you see it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17766	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Zinggl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17787	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We, too, have considered some sort of parlamen- Tarish request to the Art History Museum, which has not been answered satisfactorily or not, to make a discussion here. One of them was actually the financial audit of the Art History Museum, which we sent a question to you, Mr Minister, a year ago. You've forgotten this in your list now. And we got the answer a year ago, which the SPÖ also received half a year ago. This is, of course, the same unsatisfying answer. It's right: We also understand this § 48a, and we believe that the confidentiality of the data in connection with a financial audit is well justified. Ladies and gentlemen! However, there is a second exception in addition to this an exception concerning legal obligation to disclose. For the exception already mentioned, I think there are good reasons. You yourself have mentioned, Minister, that Parliament, of course, is more or less fulfilling this legal obligation, and that cannot be confused with Scientology, because that is not the case. But there is – as I said – in fact in the Abs. 4 a second exception, and you have abstained from it, an exception to data protection if there is a public interest in disclosure. And this public interest, ladies and gentlemen, is quite obvious here! I ask you: If this is not the case, when is there any public interest at all? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Court of Auditors takes the most serious accusations, which suggest that the Republic has escaped tax resources and has been avoided. If, for example, revenues are not shown in the business books when officials and employees In addition, the director of the museum himself admits that fewer charges have been paid, then, ladies and gentlemen, I believe there is public interest. We want to know what's happened! Is this an art-historical barrel without soil? How's it going? Does it matter whether the director has taxed proceeds he has made, whether he has even paid the turnover tax, whether it entails payment claims? These are the last money we need to monitor, manage, criticize and justify. But now, after the Court of Auditors report here in Parliament has been discussed more or less and it has been made quite clear that this director has not complied with the legal economy and economy, as if nothing had been done! The director continues to work as if nothing had been done. There is not even the four-eye principle of a business manager who has promised us Mrs. Minister. In one word: The director can continue to work as if nothing had been done! We know or can assume at least well-founded that this audit has existed on the part of the Ministry of Finance for three years, and there must also be a reason why it is not completed and why there are no results that would, of course, be interesting to the public. As has already been said, there have already been numerous possibilities to discuss further such responses which are not satisfactory here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we have thought that there are probably very important things for the Minister at the moment in university policy and in the science she must not tell us about right now: I had so much to do with Seizel, I had to cover him all the time and had no time for the universities. Even in the field of education, we didn't want to admit to her such an excuse that she says: The seizel makes so many difficulties, and until I finally made it, I don't have time for education policy to carry out my call for the business manager – just think of the four-eye principle. All right. Then culture stops in the back. But after nothing happens in both areas, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say: Now we still have to keep playing the sepulchre. I promised you, before the summer, that this Court of Auditors report on Director Seiel and the debate on it will not be over for a long time and that we will come back to this issue again and again. – So much about the culture of memory, Mrs. Brinek. I believe that the shadow of the make-up in this context, as with Macbeth from the government, the Federal Minister and Director Seiel, will no longer turn aside, and we will continue to work on it and continue to discuss this museum policy, medially and in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17854	An application has just been made in accordance with § 92 para. 3 Rules of Procedure. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request will then be put to the vote. Nobody's reported word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mrs Cap, Dr. Kräub, colleagues, to the National Council not to take note of the question to the Federal Minister for Finance 3165/AB. I would ask those who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[17:28:51]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17915	I will resume the negotiations on points 11 and 12 of the agenda. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. His welcome time is 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e17939	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the heated debates on Eurofighter and Mr Seipel, we will return to the normal agenda. Our issue is agricultural policy. This is about the further financing programme for rural development. . I think that we should also devote ourselves to this issue, although it is a pity that Mr Grillitsch has now gone out. He seems to have more interest as the farmers' president of the Seppel than in the agricultural policy. I still believe that we should devote ourselves to this issue, because it is important because it is good and because my previous speakers are already – Mr Auer is here, that is good! – have said something important about this. I am very familiar with the fact that there are many farmers' federal politicians in the ÖVP. There is no need for everyone to stand up and show up here, because I know the presidents and the officials all very well, and I also come back to the peasantry. Ladies and gentlemen! For the previous speakers – and I share this attitude – there is a crying and laughing eye in this political situation. A laughing eye, therefore, because it has certainly succeeded in ensuring the security of the financial resources for farmers within this government. To be honest, we have to say that in the Committee too, it is quite clear that it is important to ensure that the relevant interest exists well and in all parties, but that the use of resources within agriculture, within the pillars and also within the farms has very probably triggered discussions. The Committee was very intensive about whether to do something about sizes, whether or not to prefer small-scale agriculture. I just had the last "Agrarpost" of the 14th century. September before me, and in it it is quite interesting to read what Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. At the harvest thank you of the Farmers' Federation in Vienna, you have said this. I quote literally: “Bundeskanzler Wolfgang Schüssel has expressed his support for a cover-up of the grants. It is more important to promote small businesses." I have to say: That was a visionary approach of the Federal Chancellor! There are, Mr Minister, also within Austria's agricultural factories, and it will certainly be important and correct that we think about how we can make it possible to introduce a cover not only for farms from 100 000, 200 000 or 300 000 euros, but also for smaller farms. However, I also believe that we should go beyond this allocation and talk generally about the direction in which the agricultural policy goes. Let's face it: For years we have been discussing, both here in Parliament and in our countries, in the Chambers of Agriculture, 80 or 90 percent of how we can best distribute and manage funds. However, I think that agricultural policy should be more than just a distribution of resources. I believe that we should go a lot further and also have the courage to take up other parameters and to adopt other laws with which we also go new ways without the European Union in the area of our agriculture and in relation to our rural area, which is very strapped, which almost takes place in every discussion. I have already said it a few times and would like to mention this again: There are two types of control mechanisms that allow us to control agriculture, namely social policy and tax policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In these areas we have national scope, in these areas we must succeed in having the courage to say yes to certain things and perhaps to protect farmers and farms more than we do at the moment. Finally, I would like to give you an example... [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] We need courage for this, Mr Gradwelt, and I hope that you too will bring this courage and not always put the class struggle in the foreground! In fact, with all the courage you need, you should leave the class struggle in agriculture out of play, because I think all farmers are good and important enough to fight for them, whether they have two hectares or 200 hectares. [[New call for tender of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Finally – my lamp flashes, it's already turned on red – I wanted to bring the above example: It seems important to me to act in particular in social policy. Federal Minister! I would really urge you in this context that you, together with the representatives of the farmers, with the machine rings and with our representatives, fight to ensure that this unjust social security obligation does not come in the case of machine ringing activities, as the farmers' social insurance institution plans them. I ask you, together with the representatives outside the countries, to fight for not using the work of the farmer and the farmer in the field of machinery ring to clean up a marode social security institution, and in the final effect, we are losing jobs in agriculture. Every farmer and every farmer who works today in the machine ring, in the area of social assistance or only in the context of neighborhood aid has deserved to continue to be exempt from social security contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18003	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18024	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whenever it comes to distributing funding, most of the time we do not agree with you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. But of course this has a very specific and right reason: Once upon a time, it was the tax reform of which, above all, the large enterprises were very favoured and which, above all, the workers felt almost nothing, another time it was the unfair support system throughout the agricultural sector, which also greatly benefited the large farms. As long as there is a cross-border support, it is precisely the same that the large enterprises are the profiters and the small businesses stay on the track. Of course, we also see the consequences of this: 4000 farms – as we have already heard today – are blocking each year. But there is now a little hope-making, and that is why I am very pleased that Mr Scheuch has now mentioned this. I would like the affection between President Grillitsch, who is eating just now – meal! – and colleagues don’t mess up. [[Abg. Grill: It tastes!]] Mr Grillitsch, it is obviously so that we have now found a fellow-championer in terms of funding. I just call the harvest thank you here on Heroes Square. Mr Grillitsch! At that time, they changed the color of the face when the Federal Chancellor said that one should finally change the funding limits or introduce a ceiling! It obviously didn't taste that way to you! But I can say from this point of view: As social democrats and social democrats, we will fully support the Chancellor in this regard, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I only hope, Mr Großruck, that the Federal Chancellor will also prevail in your group! It won't be that easy! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I suppose the Federal Chancellor knew what he was talking about. It really can't be that there are really abstract promotions today. When I see and hear that there are still millionaires with 1 million €, 1.5 million € or 1.7 million € per year, I have to say: That is not fair, this is to the most extent unfair, ladies and gentlemen, above all to the small businesses that are really fighting for survival every day! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I also say that, as social democrats, we are, of course, in favour of the financing of rural areas. But rural areas cannot be reduced to agriculture alone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was like this in the past, too: In 2004, € 1.068 billion was available, and there were just 3% spent on rural development. To that end, we say: That is clearly too little! The rural area includes, once again, more than agriculture, and all the people living in this area must be involved. I would like to add an example here, because it is really very significant. It is about promoting education and advice priorities. That's what I'm asking: Why should it not also be possible to use workers and small and medium-sized enterprises? That is really not to be understood! Mr Federal Minister, your intentions in this programme are going too much in one direction. They exclude large sections of the population, and that is why we will not follow your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18089	The next item is the speech by Mr Eßl. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18110	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we need to clear up a bit of a mistake: The funds that flow to rural farmers benefit all rural people. These are not gifts that are distributed to the farmers, but the farmers deliver products for this: They secure the diet of the population and secure our habitat. You should take note of this, too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For this reason, it is also necessary that we have a rural development programme available, with key points such as the environmental programme or compensation allowance for disadvantaged areas, in order to enable farmers to participate voluntarily and to provide the corresponding services for society as a whole. – In addition to the European Union, the Austrian Federal Government and the countries provide the funds, and that is good. The rural development programme is now under negotiation. We need €88 billion in the EU pot, and Federal Minister Pröll has enforced that the European Agriculture Ministers stand to do so. We need 500 million a year for Austria, Federal Minister Pröll fights for it. This is the difference from the opposition: Gusenbauer wants to halve the funds, Gusenbauer wants to take away people's income, 50 percent of direct payments are to be deleted after Blair and Gusenbauer. We want to prevent that from happening at all times. You'll say that's an empty threat. - It's not that! Where socialist rule is, there is evidence. In Salzburg, the head of state, Burgstaller, took away more than a quarter of the non-EU direct payments in the first budget under her leadership. [[Abg. Grillisch: This is a shame!]] The farmers in the other Länder – especially in Styria, where decisions are concerned – should also know this. At any rate, I am glad that our Federal Government – with Sepp Pröll for agriculture at the top – is fighting with full commitment for farmers and therefore for all people in rural areas. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18156	The next item is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18177	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Let us mention it by name, because Franz Eßl has now begun this topic of direct support. Why do some farmers have to close, namely, 4,000 a year? – It certainly has nothing to do with the removal of individual funding, but it has to do with the fact that agriculture in the world as a whole has gone out of the joints. Farming by agricultural holdings has gone out of the joints! I can say this now because we are just ahead of the new WTO negotiations in December, where Minister Pröll is likely to be one of the most important negotiators in the agricultural sector, and this will be precisely the subject. The issue is: Can agriculture really be part of international trade as well as other goods? – We have the problem of ruining, on the one hand, markets in the countries of the South, because of the fact that products from the EU and also from the USA are sold over highly supported exports and are ruining the markets there. However, we also have the reverse that low-priced vegetable vegetables in Mexico – if sold almost without transport costs – will ruin local markets in Canada. What's this about? – It’s about food sovereignty. We must fight to ensure that every country, state, for its citizens, can ensure food and does not depend on international corporations approving or reducing license fees so that the countries of the South can still feed their people. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] We have already talked about the International Monetary Fund today, which, in part, also imposes export obligations on the countries of the south, which harm their own people. That's not how it can be, it's totally out of the joints! Now I have to make a replica on the beginning of Mr Grillitsch's speech. He made the memorable statement: Farmers are the backbone of rural areas. – It is not surprising that he has forgotten the farmers again. Of course, they are not there at all, either, because they do not stay in the farms; see “Bauer Seeks Woman ” on TV. This also has to do with the fact that this acquisition of rural areas by the Farmers' Federation is simply no longer contemporary. Many people don't want to live as much as you want from the ÖVP to prescribe to them. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That should also be said. The rural area is a very differentiated area, and fortunately there is a lot of different things taking place. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mrs. Colleague, the Farmers' Federation is not so powerful that it dictates how we live!]] That is why I am bringing in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, friends and friends of Austria's rural development programme from 2007 to 2013, so that not only leather pants culture and what the farmer's association understands by rural management, but also the whole variety of this Austrian... [[Abg. Grill: Leather pants...!]] Leather pants – this is a good material, yes, but not only, there are other materials that are ideal for clothing. The objectives of the motion for a resolution are above all to improve the environmental accuracy and sustainability – sustainability should actually be implemented here and not only as a word –; to ensure the freedom of genetic engineering of Austrian agriculture, which is always only in the form of lip confessions but is not actually implemented; [[Abg. Grill: This is the eco-social market economy!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Here we all agree!]] Feed, Mr Scheuch; strengthening rural areas as a living and working space; [[Abg. Grill: Eco-social market economy!]] improve the quality of life, promote fairness and create jobs; not lower limits, but ceilings in terms of eligibility; Promotion of animal welfare and animal welfare measures and, last but not least, equality between women and men in rural areas. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's not your program. That is why I would like to present the green report to the Minister today. This has come out a little earlier than the regional report of the ÖVP, perhaps because of that there is so much written down in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18297	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer is in writing, is sufficiently supported, has been explained in its basic guidelines, according to § 53 para. 4 GOG also for distribution and is involved in the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18598	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Proud of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18620	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to rural development, we are undoubtedly in a very exciting phase. On the one hand, the question arises: How is it going in the European Union?, and on the second, of course, the question is: What are we doing for the programming of this rural development in Austria itself – national implementation together with the federal states? First part of the debate. As far as the question of the European Union is concerned, we have been able to make substantial progress in the negotiations on the part of the Ministers for Agriculture in recent months. Although the question of the financial perspective for the period from 2007 to 2013 has not been successfully concluded at the government level, the agriculture ministers have reached 20 on 20 June 2013. A formal decision on how to continue rural policy in Europe between 2007 and 2013 is to be taken in the agricultural minis­terate on September. We started this discussion in Austria a year and a half ago under Franz Fischler with the European Union and have now successfully completed it. We have also given an important indication at the level of the Agriculture Ministers as to the question of financial resources that we need in order to be able to successfully implement what we have implemented in Europe in the future: 88 billion € for rural development as a target of the Agriculture Ministers clearly defined, stating that this should also be discussed in the field of the financial perspective. What have we brought Austrians into this debate? Where was the starting point, and how does the solution look? - I think the engagement was worth it. We fought hard, and it was therefore difficult because Austria is the leader in rural development – against the accusations of many previous speakers – and we had not made a successful policy here! We spend 60 per cent of all agricultural funds on rural development programmes, while other countries spend only 10 to 20 per cent. So we are lonely, have developed a lot of know-how and have also brought it into the negotiations. The proposal to be discussed at European level by the Commission would have been for Austria: minus 23 per cent in the public sector, minus 23 per cent in the compensation for the miners! We were able to successfully negotiate this axle marking, which was the basis for this calculation. The result is now: in the first axis 10 percent, in the second axis 25 percent and in the third axis 10 percent. This leads – and this also leads to the national conclusion – that, with these framework conditions at the level of the European Union, in the case of agriculture ministers, we will be able to provide an environmental programme in Austria, which is important and will continue to be important in the future, with the compensation allowance for the mining industry and an investment promotion programme accordingly. We have also achieved success on the issue of territorial demarcation – a very important issue. This, too, has been completely covered by the table, because it is obvious that we do not have any discussion about success. The European Commission's proposal would have said that in demarcating our less favoured areas, 142 out of 198 municipalities, i.e. 75 percent, would have been excluded from the demarcation of mountain farming aid. That was the proposal, and we have also achieved success. There is now no reduction in the territorial scene in Austria with the territorial demarcation targets that we – and also by me – are negotiating together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will spend more money in the new rural development programme than in the past, for example for LEADER projects, against what has been said. These are precisely those projects in which we provide funds for integrated projects beyond the agricultural area – tourism, industry, agriculture and so on. Instead of 2.5 percent doubling to 5 percent – this is also an important success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not a question of implementing a nuclear rural development here in Europe. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A second point follows before I meet the national challenge. It is also clear that over the next few months we will have to deal very carefully with the issue of the financing of the European Union, in the special field of rural development. The British rebate, so strongly defended by Tony Blair – also with the support of some in Austria – accounts for 45 billion over seven years. 45 billion € is the British discount! [[Abg. Krainer: Per Head... the British Discount...!]] Europe plans to spend 54 billion on rural development during this period. A country has a discount that is close to what is planned for all the countries of the European Union in rural development! [[Abg. Krainer: Per Head...!]] These are the relationships we need to talk about. In addition, it is obvious that proposals will be made to reduce even nationally 50 percent of compensation for environmental programmes for mining workers. I do not understand; the Ministers of Agriculture have made a different point. I am therefore in national implementation, ladies and gentlemen. We will, of course, also implement an environmental programme in this European framework, which has been discussing very intensively for months now, which will provide for compensation for the miners and provide for an investment support programme for processing and marketing support, which will enable us to provide correct answers in Austria for the future, especially in the field of positioning on the markets. For we know that 1 €, used in rural development, provides 2.2-fold value added for rural areas, not only for farmers, but far beyond in the remote and downstream areas. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a wondrous increase in money!]] That is why, at European level, we also need to find a wise solution nationally. Because Mr Scheuch referred to it: Tax policy and social policy are, of course, also relevant to agricultural policy, not a question. That's why a good news for the day: In these hours, for the first time in Austria, we pay 40 to 50 million with the support of the agricultural diesel – the second tranche comes from the beginning of next year – to farmers. This is an important signal, coming from tax policy, for the competitiveness of domestic farmers. Promise, hold – in these hours the payout is running!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18719	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18741	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! One thing I need to make clear here: For years, the liberal club has demanded that the same taxation be adjusted. I think that was a success from us. [[Abg. Jakob Auer:... do with you!]] Of course, we were glad that the ÖVP went there with the Federal Minister and finally implemented it. It is a pleasure for the farmers outside who do not have it easy. Of course, it is true that “farmers” are a professional name with us; it is not that we – I say now – distinguish farmers, but that is the same thing. This should not be used to re-establish a discussion, but it is important that the farmers, the farmers, are the backbone of rural areas. [[Abg. As in the Federal Anthem with you!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We just need to think about the fire brigade, for example. If a mission takes place, who's going to the fire brigade? – In rural areas, these are mostly farmers when assistance is needed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, they are! – What does “not secure” mean? [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Because they are not insured!]] I am a group commander at the fire department; of course they are secured, of course they are insured! But you have to take the time. A farmer runs away from his field when it is used in the fire brigade, and of course helps. But it may not be possible for some companies to do so. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... Tell fire brigade!]] On this occasion one should perhaps also thank the companies, all the companies for releasing their people when they are in service with the fire brigade or with other aid organizations. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] Farmers and agriculture, this is an essential impetus in these regions; of course, it is not the only one. Rural development can only be guaranteed if there are jobs there, i.e. if you can live there. When I take the Steiermark: A rural area was East Styria, where there were many weekly commuters. Today it is a region in which work has been created. Of course, the infrastructure is an essential element. Let us take an example. Only yesterday, in Tyrol, there was the package with 72 million for the infrastructure outside. Railway infrastructure is also an essential factor in rural development, particularly these areas. Or here I call the modes of transport, the broadband initiative. There are many areas that can be addressed, but one will always be the case: In these rural areas, farmers will do their work day and night. Although it is difficult there and even if some do not want to do this work anymore, others have been caught up so far. We still have the situation that a lot of land is managed. I also imagine what agriculture means for tourism. We have 70 million nights alone in Tyrol; 70 million, after that nothing can be seen for a long time, and then Salzburg comes. What if farmers were to stop doing their work? It is therefore important that we make promotions, which is why it is important that we make environmental promotions. It is therefore important that farmers and farmers – no matter what we call them – be supported in this task, which is incredibly important to society. I think I can also expect the Social Democrats to go out and praise our rural area, because this is also a success story: Only if I see how many are at the public office, or if I hear the figures from the Federal Government: 64 per cent for rural development, whereas in Europe it is only 20 per cent, or if I produce our high-quality foods. I'm a farmer, and I'm proud to be a farmer. Everyone who manages land and land knows what that means. I am also glad that I have a woman who thinks the same thing and continues the operation in my absence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pepper.]] That is why women in rural areas are incredibly important, not only because they work but also because they set up many social initiatives in rural areas. I expect the next speaker to say that she might go into it a little bit and also praise something that is too much to praise and whatever one should praise.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18846	The next item is Mrs Walther's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e18867	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What are we talking about in rural areas? – We are not concerned that we do not have the farmers and their hard work, which, as the figures show, partly have to deviate from more than 4,000 farms... [[Abg. Steibl:... but still too little!]] Please? – [[Abg. Steibl: If casting builders want minus 50 percent, then what is it?]] I'd like to ask you not to interrupt me. I didn't hear that, and I'd like to talk. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Over 4,000 have had to be soft, and yet there are people who stay and take on this hard work. In this context, I must say: What are we talking about? – That the EU’s recommendations are taken into account in the sharing of funds! I hear with satisfaction that a number of negotiations have now taken place, I did not know before. We are concerned that these proposals of the EU are taken into account and included, second, that the public is also included in the decision-making process and that, as in the past, the non-agricultural sector is not only taken into account in the grants by 3 per cent, but that they should be higher. The state is: 87 per cent for agriculture and the environment and less favoured areas – i.e. agricultural sector 61.2 per cent and less favoured areas 25.9 per cent. In the new period, this should now look different. The EU Commission has made a proposal – Mr Pröll has already outlined it in part –: uniform rules for programme handling, a source of funding, a fund, three priority axes; this has also been discussed. These three axes are: Improving the competitive conditions of agriculture and forestry through an investment fund, improving agricultural products. This is very important, because more and more farmers are specializing; I think that is a real step. Other points are: Environmental and land management, disadvantaged areas – and this should remain in a similar form, in part – public transport and diversification of agriculture, quality of life, services, e.g. post, gendarmerie, basic provision for the rural population. We are therefore at the point where we have always called for rural areas to be important to the people living there – and that is all, not just the farmers! For example, my previous speaker mentioned the fire brigade: In my community there is a farmer in the fire brigade. Why? – Because many had to softly give up their agriculture and now on shift or seasonal work... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: How many farmers do you have in your community?]] About 25. – [[Abg. Steibl: Full-time farmers or auxiliary farmers?]] I was just about to say: Ten are full-time farmers. These are first and foremost large wine growers, who also make shelters; Keywords: Styrian wine. The rest are utility farmers who are subcontractors for the large wine growers. These produce according to certain criteria, sell it – which is also good and fair and beautiful – but no longer lead a full-time farming and work partly in other farms. It is about that it can not only benefit farmers – that would be only a very small part of the population! – small businesses also need to be encouraged, and structures must be created for this. In a community like mine, where 55 kilometres of road can be managed so that people can get to school, get to work, it is also about the fact that a kindergarten can continue to exist, that a school can be properly taught and can also develop. All these are important things! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: This is a question of financial compensation!]] This is partly about financial compensation, but it should also be the case in road construction: the EU's agricultural support. The EU requires at least 15 percent for this last pillar – I think that has remained the same, right? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: 10 percent!]] 10 percent. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We were so successful!]] Rural sustainability must be developed in the first two pillars, and the involvement of the social partners, municipalities and regional institutions should also be ensured. – I think you see that agriculture is not just the farmers, but everyone! [[Abg. Grill: All!]] This concerns all people who have to live and develop in rural areas – and in this sense agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19009	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19030	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, you must read very carefully the motion for a resolution tabled by the government parties. It also includes: an open, transparent and broad discussion on the reform of the programme in accordance with the Commission’s requirements – that is why the Minister is asked. This really includes all areas, not just agriculture. In addition, the Greens have also tabled a motion for a resolution which, in general, only affects agriculture – but I think you have just as much meant the whole spectrum. We really mean the whole area of rural development, and this includes forestry. I am pleased that the future rural development will take even greater account of the forestry sector, including forest owners' associations, forest-economic communities. They know that a large part of the Austrian forest is small private property, and there is only cooperation, and they will be further promoted in the future. That's good! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second area is the LEADER programme, which has just been tailor-made: There is just a doubling – the Minister has said that too – from 2.5 to 5 percent, so this is a very strong increase! There are already 56 LEADER regions in over 1,000 municipalities, of which more than 2 million are affected. Never before have there been so many creative and innovative proposals for rural development. We of the ÖVP will continue to strongly support you in the future. So if the SPÖ chief, who is unfortunately not in the hall now, wrote yesterday in a press release of Tombs of the rural area, he probably meant his own party, because, for example, if you look back a little further, then you know that in the Federal Republic of Carinthia the SPÖ in 1973 has locked almost half of the municipal offices that she has dissolved the district farming chambers in 1976 – yes, restlessly dissolved, Mrs. Trunk! Exactly, that was the SPÖ, against the resistance of the ÖVP at least. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you want to have district farmers' chambers again?]] The first District Courts were closed, Gendarmerieposten, all this has happened among SPÖ Chancellors. What do we learn from it? – As already the SPÖ debt policy of the 1970s and 1980s, we have now grown the soup from the ÖVP to the development of the rural area. The forgotten villages must therefore be made fit for the future with even more effort. It's gonna work very well. The farmers, the farmers, the forest party, the commuters, the children and pupils in rural areas all need this support and thus this good rural development programme. And for balance, our Federal Minister as the Minister for Rural Affairs will take care of it as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19073	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19094	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Scheuch, I agree with the majority of your remarks, only the beginning – it is about agricultural policy again – shows the problem: It is not just about agricultural policy, it is about rural policy, and that is a significant difference! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: For me this is identical!]] But one thing you forgot when mentioning spaces of action: We also have a massive scope for action at national level in support policy, which we do not use. If the EIA in its proposal believes that it is a European champion in rural development – and the Minister stresses this – I must say: Okay, European champions are sure to buy money, European champions certainly also in return – that's undisputed and okay. [[Abg. Keussnigg: World Champion!]] However, Mr Minister, if you have been addressing the British Discount – on the one hand, you are demanding €88 billion, on the other hand, your colleagues in the government are moving to Brussels and saying: We don't pay more than 1 percent! –: Today, the British pay net per capita as much as the Austrians. Let us take note of this! That is, you ask the British to pay more, but according to the Federal Government, the Austrians will pay less, and you will split up funds from 2007 to 2013 that you don't have yet. Ladies and gentlemen! They called out the year of thought: Let's think about the last 50 years in rural areas! A departure of 30 to 40 percent, which has decreased significantly in recent years. In other words, it is clear that there are positive effects which I do not want to dispute. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Thanks to our policy!]] However, Mr Federal Minister, we are now faced with the burden that the people in rural areas face. Why? – The average income is lower, but the burden remains the same. I like living in rural areas, I can afford it. Very, very many will no longer be able to afford it in the foreseeable future. Of course, the girls get into each other. If the commuting becomes expensive, we'll be able to move back. When we move, we follow closures. The district courts were closed in ÖVP times and not before. It's similar with Gendarmerie and so on. Federal Minister! We must succeed in breaking this vicious circle! That's why the appeal really comes again: It must be possible in this House to find a common line for the period from 2007 to 2013, which will help all those who are helping small and medium-sized enterprises who are helping farmers who are helping rural areas as a whole. Let's finally come to a term that brings us all on! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19157	The next item is the speech by Mr Jakob Auer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19182	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who has always listened to the previous speakers, whatever the group, could think that they are all for rural areas. I think that this is, in general, a fight against it. Obviously we have the same goal, but different ways and different methods. I can already remember one thing: Ladies and gentlemen! It was Federal Minister Pröll who fought for the total funds in the European Union. I have two names in it: Blair and Gusenbauer, who think they could be halved, and this should be made clear, especially if we look at the English agricultural policy: in Austria over 60 percent of rural development expenditure, in the UK 5 percent, the rest or most, better formulated, namely 95 percent, for market regulation expenditure. If you look at this per farm, you can see that in Austria the average farm receives €5 700 compensation, in the UK just under €18 000. Thus also for the claim concerning Austrian large enterprises: In England, 91 cows are on average in the stable and 574 pigs, while in Austria 21 cows, not even a quarter, and 40 pigs are on average in the stable. And since in Austria talking about a large-scale farm policy, that's a bit strange; don't be angry with me. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Mittermüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Scheuch was right when he said that the agricultural diesel was only feasible with the FPÖ. That is so, that is to be confirmed, and I am very happy and grateful – and I also recognize the farmers – that with this coalition, with this government, this implementation was finally possible. With the help of SPÖ it was not possible to say that openly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It has been referred to by Mr Scheuch on tax and social policy, where we have the opportunity to help farmers. There is still a third area, and today it is presented in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. This is an interesting article – “If Geiz strangles the imagination” – in which one points out that is purchased in the wholesale markets so that food can be obtained as cheaply as possible so that you can afford the most expensive vacation in the Caribbean. This article is worth reading. And we ourselves also have to think and animated our fellow citizens to align the purchasing behaviour in such a way that the local Greißler, the local merchant and whoever is the close-up caretaker in the rural communities has a chance. Mrs Walther has absolutely right as regards the concerns of small communities. However, I would ask you to make clear such legitimate remarks even before financial compensatory debates in your own club.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19239	The next item is the speech by Mr Reheis. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19260	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is more starting time than speaking time!]] First of all, I do not want to respond to Mr Wittauer's wish and thank the farmers for praising them. They really do excellent work in the regions. Farming is of course an important part of the region and contributes a lot to the fact that the guests and the locals are happy to live there. Ladies and gentlemen! The benefits for the whole population and the guests, of course, not only do the members of the rural families, but of course also others, such as self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises. Jakob This is what Auer has already mentioned. I am in favour of the purchase of good products, but this also requires appropriate jobs in the rural regions so that people have a corresponding income in order to buy good products. But now it looks like this – this is also part of the development of the rural area, and since, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I cannot spare you the accusation: It's been a blocking hour since you were responsible for government! This is a map of Tyrol. [[The speaker introduces a panel to the speaker's desk.]] Since this Federal Government is in office, 74 post offices, 2 district courts, 4 barracks and 7 police posts have been detained in Tirol – 3 post offices, 7 district courts and 1 barracks are still under threat. Ladies and gentlemen, this means the destruction of the rural area. And it does not come about that in our federal state, after an OGM survey, income is now in third place throughout Austria and that Tyrol is in the final place as far as purchasing power is concerned. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What do you have for a captain of the state?]] Mr Auer, who is to buy these valuable products if people do not have the corresponding income? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I call on the government parties to ensure that this rural area is no longer broken down and that people have a corresponding income so that they can also buy yours and our good products. This is also part of a rural development programme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Rural area, ladies and gentlemen, is not just agricultural policy. This also means that the infrastructure has to be preserved, that the small and medium-sized enterprises have existing power. So it is guaranteed that people have work and income to buy good products. Then it must not happen that there are 13 000 pleas throughout Austria. In Tyrol it is up to the 15 000 pleas. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: There is something wrong with the figures!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said it today: 1 031 pleas existed in Tirol alone in the last three quarters; that was this year. I'm appealing to you: Please Change You have this policy and strengthen the rural area! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19358	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19379	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I have followed the discussion with great surprise. I have expected colleagues from the Socialist Group to come out and explain why you support the proposal of the party president Gusenbauer to reduce agricultural payments by 50 percent. Nobody did that. Everyone came and said: Much more needs to be financed from it, much more desire You yourself, even the courts are supposed to be paid out of it, the railway, the post and what else I know. None of you had the mumm and the courage to say: I'll bet you what Gusenbauer demands. – A beautiful meeting is what we are experiencing today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are in a really difficult situation because in the WTO we are in the process of continuing to put food prices under further pressure. We know very well that compensation payments are complementary to the prices to which we can no longer produce in Europe. Those who call into question these compensation payments call into question production. It is not about whether many or few farmers receive payments, but about whether they can still be produced. I would urgently ask you to think seriously about it! History is far too dangerous and far too dangerous, as if such cheap polemics, as we are experiencing today, should be abandoned. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. There are few ministers in Europe who are fighting as much for the rural regions as our Minister Josef Pröll does. It would be very good if the majority in the house would say: Thank you, Federal Minister, this goes far beyond usual! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's why he's so thin!]] Because in small Austria, in large Europe, having such a great success, that is an achievement. I really thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber) Ha, ha, ha!]] To Mr Scheuch: We did the agricultural diesel together, but if you had had the nerves at times, we would have had it two years earlier. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19472	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19494	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Mr Pirklhuber's request rightly points out that the Federal Government has failed to inform Parliament of its rural development plans. [[Abg. Großruck: You wouldn't have read it anyway!]] A programme will be prepared to decide on the use of public funds, which will decide on the development of Austrian agriculture in the years 2007 to 2013. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] And if it goes to the Federal Government, this programme will be sent directly to Brussels without talking about it in Parliament at all. Most of the Austrian population lives in rural areas and has a right to learn what the Federal Government is planning to do with its habitat in the next few years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! In view of such information deficits, They do not wonder if people feel that they are being decided across their heads in Vienna and Brussels. A second example of how people's needs in rural areas are passed away from you: In the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, you have decided by a majority vote: A new, impulsive rural development programme must be developed! – I would agree, but you always forget that rural areas are not just agricultural holdings. Rural areas need not only support for agriculture but also safe jobs in all other sectors and sectors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Rural people need a better public transport network, better infrastructure, more opportunities for education and more childcare to mention just a few points. Mr Pröll! I call on you to include these people's needs in your rural development programme! Another one, Mr. Minister: Although I know from you that the EU funding programme “LEADER plus” has proven itself and is intended to be continued, we – I mean my region in the house truck – do not know how it continues after 2006. What are the criteria for “LEADER plus”? How many euros will flow? – 5 percent of what? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] People are waiting for your answer. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19553	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19575	Madam President. Minister! High house! About 10 percent of the funding for 2% of the population is a number which has already been used several times today and which makes clear how well our representatives, in particular our Minister for Agriculture Sepp Pröll, have acted at European level. This money for rural development, on the one hand, gives our rural family farms appropriate planning security, on the other, but also the opportunity to set important impulses and accents in rural areas. The main points for our farmers are certainly the compensation allowance and the successful Austrian environmental programme. These programmes mean security for our businesses, but also security for Austrian consumers, to get healthy products from sustainable domestic production. There is still a well-kept landscape. Although we have discussed the use of these funds in the Committee on Agriculture, I am absolutely convinced that all members of this committee are at the heart of the well-being of rural areas. I am equally convinced that all of us are aware of the importance of these funds and that cuts in this area would lead to a blatant disadvantage in rural areas. That is why I wonder how you, Mr Gradwelt, or you, Mr Gaßner, or you, Mr Kummerer, or all the other SPÖ members of the Committee on Agriculture, have been able to accept the request of your party chairman Gusenbauer, who has called for these funds to be halved. They endanger not only rural family farms, but also the jobs that are so immensely important in rural areas as well, and, in turn, put thousands of people at risk. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] “Because man counts” was once your election slogan to my knowledge. Obviously you have forgotten this for rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] We from the ÖVP, we from the Federal Farmers' Association with our Minister Sepp Pröll will continue to fight for the interests of rural areas in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19635	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19656	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Dear colleague Sieber! “Because man counts” is still our motto. That is why, Mr Sieber, we are not going to have to pay ground pension and cow's tail premiums, but we have been demanding that the labour force be supported for years. The Federal Minister has been in his desk for three years. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] What's he doing with it? – He lets them mold! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Austrian agricultural policy will be difficult to bear in future. But you have the responsibility for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I didn't understand you right now. They have referred to the percentages: for the first pillar, for the second pillar, for rural development, for cross-financing, for compensation. Please tell me: What amounts are behind these percentages?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Grill: After cast builder 50 percent less!]] They have decided in the Council of Agriculture Ministers how to divide a fictitious cake by percentage! [[Abg. Grill: After cast builder 50 percent less!]] - I'll be right there. In case you don't understand, I'll explain it to you five more times, Fritz. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Ha, ha!]] But, Mr Federal Minister, I would be interested in what sums are behind these pillars? . Perhaps you could tell us about this and perhaps you could take up the promise you make at meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, namely that Parliament should be fully involved. We always only receive invitations to extra-parliamentary events, either by the Preco, by the Chamber of Agriculture or in combination with the Ministry. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Very good events!]] – This is quite possible, and I admit it. But here, where laws are passed, there is no talk about it. That's where you've got feathers for it! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Go, stop!]] Why, Minister of State? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My colleague Schultes, I already admit: The agricultural policy is in a difficult situation in Austria. I'll give you the right. Only: How long has it been since an ÖVP Agriculture Minister took control of the skills of Austrian agriculture? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's a little simple!]] It's been a long time, and that's exactly the problem. You are simply not able to recognize the signs of time! You are also unable to make changes. You are talking about reforms, but when the reforms are coming, then, dear colleague Grillitsch, you are organizing a Farm Federal Demonstration, so that nothing is reformed and therefore everything remains as it is, so that with the farm premiums you can continue to promote the bigger ones in the future and force the smaller ones to stop. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleague Grillitsch, there is currently a wonderful advertising in the ORF, in which the little pig on the alm says that the grass is so good, and to the farmer says: I'd like to stay there. And the farmer says: Yes, of course, you can stay there. - Great. The pig may stay there, but the miners will soon have expelled you with your policy. That's the problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Because you're already pissing your hands together, I'm asking you: How many miners, Mr Federal Minister, could the sum of the five largest agricultural holdings in Austria actually be equipped with direct payments? – I tell you with your numbers: 12 249. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. You want to halve it!]] Federal Minister! What do we want to halve? Explain Please: What do we want to halve?- Oh, my God! – All speakers from the ÖVP talk about half-life. Half of what? [[Abg. Grill: Cast builders proposal!]] 50 percent of what? . I take once again the statement of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on no better day than the harvest thank you in Vienna. The Federal Chancellor took over the argument from the SPÖ agricultural programme and meant that there was a lot of money going into agriculture. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the ÖVP as well as by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] I quote literally: ‘The question of whether this is fair is raised by some, according to Schüssel: “I say it could be more just.” – Listen, listen! “We could cover the agricultural factories in the promotions. But the small farmers, the family farms, the miners, need our support.” – the end of the quote. The Federal Chancellor has us on his side. Unfortunately, you're not the farmer's federal government, Fritz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Excuse me!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say, after I have now been very intensive in agriculture: The rural area is more. The rural area is much more than just agriculture or the economy, for example, it is also a matter of supply. This is about the post offices being locked up, also in the Styria. Mr Grillitsch, contrary to your broadcasts in your home country, there is a question answered by Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach, on the question of members of the Federal Council: “Have you been contacted by Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic regarding the closure of Styrian postal offices?” says: “... may I tell you that in the requested period I had no appointment with Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic on the subject of post office closure.” – So far to openness, to honesty. [[Abg. Grillitsch: What have I done for an broadcast? Cite my broadcast before!]] It's better if we put people at the centre!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19881	The next speaker is Mr Keussnigg. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e19902	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We really have a spooky debate here. Mr Gradwelt, you have really missed the opportunity to clarify the mystery of the SPÖ's agricultural policy line. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: There's no such thing as that!]] We have been asking you for two hours what you say about the position of your party chairman Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Gradwell: That you don't understand...!]] And for two hours you've been talking about it and saying nothing. That's a shame. Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot spare you to ask you here in front of the curtain. You cannot let go of this contradiction! If you leave him alone, then you have to make the accusation that there are hollow phrases dreary. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That's not true!]] If you don't say anything about that, you have to. For this reason, we have to stick to the issue, because that is exactly the line of conflict that is currently in place in Europe. If this line of Tony Blair prevails, it is a disaster for rural areas! All the measures that have been taken so far are then a learner, as you say. [[Abg. Gradwell: This is a disaster for agriculture...!]] Mr Gradwelt, your previous speakers from the party – you were the last to have had the opportunity to correct this – said that only the farmers were encouraged. There is nothing more wrong than this way of thinking! I mention the example of biomass: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic Who benefits from it? – Of course, farmers benefit because they provide the raw material. [[Abg. Silhavy: Ah, imagine!]] Okay. It also benefits the transport operators who bring all the stuff out of the forest. For example, jobs in the boiler industry benefit greatly. The boiler industry is not making sales for a long time. It shuts down five new plants every day. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Four shift farms!]] Then there are the installers and the entire value chain of the rural area. As a final word: The Netherlands and Austria have the lowest employment differences within the regions. This rural programme is a success story. We can really see ourselves in Austria with this policy. Look for Southern Europe, look for Eastern Europe, look into the French Alps and you know it! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20008	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20029	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are very different concepts and assessments here. I would like to say something basic about the rural development programme. I think there would be consensus in these wordings that this programme also has a social orientation and must also have an ecological orientation. These are the two cornerstones of this rural development programme and must be it. These specific measures must at least be tested. This House, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister, would be called upon to vote on this programme. But that's not the case. We do not vote on a law here, but rather on measures which the Federal Minister of State is discussing on the basis of an EU regulation in various forums and then lets them finish in the ministry. This is the question of democracy, which is open here: How is it possible in the future to implement as many funds as possible – at least up to €4 billion by 2013 – by the end of the Parliament – it is actually quite legitimate to start with – through ministerial special directives? This is my first central question, Mr Federal Minister. – Of course it is possible. But is it legitimate in the long term? - That's the one side. The second side is: What about the legal certainty of farmers who want to achieve these benefits? – This too is an old issue of controversy. In this context, I would like to remind you of the following: There was a legal claim for the old market order payments. There is no legal basis for these environmental benefits paid in the context of rural development. There are a lot of problems associated with this. I'd like to discuss that with you. If we were to adopt a framework law on rural development in which we were to regulate these issues by law and regulate them in certain areas, we would have the power of decision-making and control back where it should be: here in the House, in Parliament. The front. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I would like to draw up a number of points which are certainly central. The word 'limits of funding', the word 'labour force', labour force efficiency of means of support. These are orientations and objectives, Minister of State, which must be discussed very decisively. It is not a secret to someone who has followed the debate over the past few months that some people have come across. One thing is undisputed: What Tony Blair gave of to this is completely inappropriate in the matter, because the funds that would seriously belong to the test stand have already been fixed in advance by the year 2013, namely the funds of the first pillar of agricultural policy at European level. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm convinced that's going to be tied up again. In this form, it cannot be unobstructed that the English King's House is one of the largest sponsors of the European Union. – This cannot be a matter of social and political debate for farmers, because consumers and taxpayers do not understand why such “institutions” as the English crown are massively subsidized with means of taxation. – The debate on funding justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I would like to address the inconsistency of your position, the position of the ÖVP and the FPÖ. You too, Mr Federal Minister, have reported that the agricultural ministers have jointly decided that they want these €88 billion for rural development. – Yes, this resolution exists for all European ministers of agriculture, but there is also the decision of some Heads of Government, including our Minister of Finance and our Chancellor, not to want to pay more money into the European Union. And that is precisely what you are talking about in rural areas, Mr Grillitsch, because where is the reduction? - But not with the British discounts! But not 100 percent of these British discounts! Mr. Federal Minister, don't make us believe that! That's totally unbelievable. It will be reduced exactly where we need the funds: in rural areas, in the mountains in Austria or in our environmental programme. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Have you already allied with the caster?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] So, be honest: one – under quotations – “net payer position”, as it argues your federal government, your representation at EU level, will meet precisely those you want to speak to here. This is actually completely inconsistent, and you should have corrected that for a long time. Mr. Federal Minister, you should have been in the Council of Ministers and with your head, the Federal Chancellor, for correcting it accordingly. In terms of content, we are concerned with the following: Environmental accuracy needs to be tightened. There is a good example for this: A serious pesticides reduction programme has not yet been achieved. You must listen to this criticism, Minister of State! Around 90 percent of farmers are environmentally-oriented, but others use illegal pesticides. This is currently obviously happening in some regions of Austria. Mr. Federal Minister, you know! Atrazine values increase at not only one or two measuring points. In the meantime, more than ten measuring points have been observed for increasing atrazine levels. This is just a pesticides that has been banned in Austria for ten years. It would be time to think about the control of those who are not in the environmental programme. As Minister for the Environment, they would be the first to act decisively and massively in favour of harmonised, Austrian-wide control. This is a deficit, and we would expect a few things to happen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second is the freedom of genetic engineering in the field of seed use. It would be appropriate to introduce the obligation that farmers should be obliged to buy seed free of genetic engineering when buying seeds. This would be a voluntary measure, would be EU-compliant and would secure our non-genocidal food production – a future strategy. I have so far received no positive feedback from the ÖVP, from the Farmers' Federation – unlike from individual councils, which were very likely to give positive feedback – but in particular from you, Mr Grillitsch. [[Abg. Grillitsch: You're with the cast builder in an alliance!]] That is also the reason why we will not agree to your request. On this point you lack a wide view, and with regard to the ecological target accuracy detto. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to really examine these proposals seriously, so I would like to give you our positions, our rural development programme proposal. I expect you to take this into account during the next two months. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20114	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1017 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 136.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, colleagues on the Austrian rural development programme 2007 to 2013. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1016 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. This request was adopted by a majority. [[18:45:29]] 13. Point Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (1000 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act of 1967 (26. KFG-Novelle), 3rd and 4th. Novelle is amended (1102 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 529/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on the revision of the "Pickerl" Regulation (repetitive review of motor vehicles according to § 57a KFG) with regard to the current test intervals to be generous from a traffic safety perspective (1103 d.B.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 213/A (E) by Mrs Petra Bayr, ladies and gentlemen, on the reduction of bureaucracy in the approval of motorcycle accessories (1104, e.g.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 387/A (E) by Mrs Gerhard Reheis, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20231	We now come to points 13 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mr Eder. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20261	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that today at least a State Secretary is present. Mr. Federal Minister Gorbach is rarely seen here in the house, at least on transport issues. He talks about major Austrian issues, but rather little about transport problems. But I'm glad if we have a competent State Secretary here, and I'm happy about it. I may say that we now want to turn to transport policy. We also discussed a number of amendments to the motor vehicle law in the Transport Committee. We have discussed the changes that have been proposed, or the proposals, differently controversially. I would therefore like to begin by asking the President to vote separately on Article 1(83) concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 5 in § 99, so that we can give our agreement to an essential part that was discussed. The question is whether or not the light should be switched on in the case of motor vehicles a day. I would like to say very emotionlessly that we went into committee negotiations without preconceived opinion, because this is a matter that we really need to take seriously and which we wanted to highlight in terms of road safety. First of all, we have heard experts who have commented on this issue in the Committee, i.e. we have organised a so-called hearing. Dr. Heller from ARBÖ, Dr. Tann from the Board of Trustees for Traffic Safety, spoke to Dr. Haupfleisch from ÖAMTC, Dipl.-Ing. Wolfgang Rauh of the Österreich Transport Club and Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Ernst Caregiver from a scientific institute. After consulting these experts, it has not been possible that daylight on and on itself can and should be a contribution to greater road safety. Of course, it was also a question of whether the weaker road users such as pedestrians – especially children – would be better or less well-seen, or whether they would be better able to see motor vehicles coming to them – so not very easy to answer. Finally, we have found a majority in the entire Transport Committee, with some additions, to make this law first of all, but also to carry out an evaluation within two years, so that it can be determined once again whether light on the day brings real benefits to road safety. We have also taken away the fog light, which was originally mentioned in the draft law, because it may be totally wrong-setting and particularly blinded. We have also included in the Committee's report the point that the Federal Minister should as far as possible try to introduce the Running Light – a daylight – also in newly approved vehicles. We have not succeeded in solving a miserable problem, namely the counting rule in the transport of students. It is still true that three children's places count as two adult places and children under six years of age do not count at all. – The cost factor won, and there were only slight improvements. We could not agree with that in this form. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] But interesting is the criminal framework in the event of breach of the helmet obligation, which is increased. That's what we mean: If you really take it seriously with the increase in the penalty framework in violation of the helmet requirement when using motorcycles and scooters, so if you want the drivers to set up helmets, then this should also be better achieved in the advertising of the BZÖ. Mr State Secretary! [[The speaker turns to the government bank and shows Secretary of State Mag. Mainoni a photo that shows three people sitting on a moped.]] In Vienna is advertised with a poster, on which first three people sit on a moped and second, all three do not have a helmet. [[Call the SPÖ:Anarchy!]] In my opinion, it is not particularly favourable if you increase the penalty frame on the one hand and then for your own party with three on a moperl and without helmet. [[Abg. Wittauer: But not driving! Sitting!]] – You can't see if they're driving or sitting. It's not a good advertising at all. Otherwise, we agree with light a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20327	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20348	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is so common in the Transport Committee that it is discussed very objectively, and it was also very material for my previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen! Light a day is one of the points discussed during the KFG-Novelle. From our point of view – from the point of view of the ÖVP – it is about recognizing possible dangers in time, so that the person who is weaker can react as quickly as possible. So from my point of view, you can avoid accidents. It's no secret that in the event of traffic accidents – I know, I'm a police officer myself – participants say again and again: Mr Inspector, I don't know how it happened, he was suddenly there, I didn't see it. And I think in this controversial discussion among experts who took place in expert hearing – there were four professionals present, two spoke rather pro, two spoke rather carefully – it is relatively difficult for us politicians to do the right thing. I also said this in the Committee, and therefore I would also like to thank the Group of the Greens, but also the SPÖ Group, the BZÖ Group and, of course, my group for the really very material discussion, because it was actually the feeling that it is all concerned with lifting road safety in large areas. If the experts are right, you can say under the rule: Light per day will certainly not harm, and it may bring a road safety gain. ADAC experts – this is the German driving club – have calculated that light on the day can achieve around three percent reduction in road accidents, and I believe that. 3 per cent would be committed to Austrian conditions means that we would have less to complain about in about 25 traffic deaths. Ladies and gentlemen! If we did not reach the 25 and it would be a single road killer, the political action of today would have been justified. Therefore, I am fighting for greater road safety and tell you that the ÖVP naturally wants to have as long a period as possible of law enforcement up to punishment. Why? – It is of Europe-wide interest to drive through Austria, and we have a certain obligation to provide information to all European drivers and road users. We do not want to overrun people with new legal provisions, but we want to bring them, as far as they are opponents, into the boat of road safety. That is where we need, I think, a time limit in which we can inform and clarify. We also want to give the economy a chance: The car economy expects there to be a very high run on the workshops. We want to give the economy an opportunity to prepare and set up for it. Ladies and gentlemen! The car industry should also have the opportunity to install daylight – the Day Running Light. We agree – the ÖVP has said this several times – that the highest level of expansion on this issue can only be achieved by means of a daylight, which is also to be represented in energy policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I just mention: The ÖVP will therefore agree to this question of driving with light a day. We also want this to be evaluated after two years. However, I also mention that the KFG-Novelle contains a number of other provisions such as the increase of the criminal framework. Here we have advocated a differentiated criminal framework, and we also want to achieve with the help of the experts that a qualified criminal framework will be possible. Everything else was consensual. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope today that a unanimous decision will be taken in the House on a new transport safety which will be of great importance to all of Austria and to road users.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20412	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 7 minutes welcome. – 4 minutes. [[Abg.: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Four!]] Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20447	Mr President. Dear Reverend Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister is missing once again, he is coming in the morning when it comes to matters of government, and is missing in the afternoon when it comes to road safety. There is indeed, as my previous speakers have already pointed out, a very broad consensus this time, although the main point of the day concerning the KFG-Novelle – that is light a day – has been critically raised by our side, because we are particularly concerned with the safety of the weak traffic. participants – those are the pedestrians and cyclists – are very much at heart. The expert Professor Pfleger has also pointed out that light on the day in the local area is perceived and registered in the sehphysiological perception of the incoming illuminated drivers earlier than the bicycle driver or the pedestrian in the same direction. So our sensory perception simply works that it addresses light rather than unlit persons or objects. We have to do very well in the evaluation and look at the accident balance with pedestrians and cyclists in detail and very different ways, because we also know through the expert contribution from the VCÖ that in Denmark the number of accidents among pedestrians and cyclists has increased. The extent to which this is associated with light a day is to be clarified. Therefore, our small reservation in this direction as regards security. There was another reservation, which is related to increased fuel consumption and increased emissions. Of course, an increase in fuel consumption is to be considered by one percent in relation to the safety issue. We have said that safety is going ahead and in this sense one should also drive fuel-saving cars forward or force the changeover to the three-litre car or four-litre car or five-litre car. Then there is a safety gain and a fuel reduction. – That was important to us in the discussion. A second important point: Generally speaking, I think, if we are talking about road safety now, we should remember that our main task is in the area, which unfortunately brings with it most fatalities, namely the breach of speed limits or above speed. What will help us if we have an offensive measure with light a day, if we may succeed in installing this daylight at European level – which is also our starting point and our perspective, away from the passing light to the daylight – so what is useful to us if we really save lives if, on the other hand, where most of the dead are to complain – in the speed control area, too little effort is being made, too little emphasis is being done, perhaps too little political action. That's why, in the end, my plea: Next time a KFG novelle, which increases the level of punishment in the event of speed crossings and which, above all, takes this offense more and more into the pre-mark system! To explain how far the transport of children in school buses has unfortunately not been improved, my colleague will make a few comments. We would have expected more. But we still give our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20505	Mr Wittauer is now speaking. 4 minutes welcome. [[Abg. Wittauer: three!]] Then I'll set up for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20542	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! With this innovation we achieve that a small but further part in terms of road safety will be improved. The aim is to improve the quality of life and to improve the Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. The discussion in the Committee was very interesting. At first, I felt that there would be more opponents there, but with the help of the experts, it is obvious that it is more and more convinced that it is good for road safety if you have turned on the light in the car even on the day. When you hear: Yes, but cyclists, motorcycles, pedestrians are being disadvantaged because they are not seen so well anymore!, then I have to say: For me as a motorcycle driver, it was always an essential factor that I see my counterpart. It's clear: When a pedestrian goes over the road, he immediately sees a car coming when the light is turned on. On the subject of transgressions, however, it is criticized that we would be dealing with “little things”, not great things. – That’s not true! I can only mention the section control as one of the measures, as well as the premise system. What are the consequences of sanctions following infringements: There's the driver's license withdrawal. So now to say that the other is less involved in our considerations, it is simply not true. That is part of the whole, and that is also good, because we will also work in this area one by one. In my opinion, it is also important for the experts to confirm – it can be less than 30 fatalities or 20 – that there will be fewer fatalities, which I too am fully convinced of. If the studies are to vote, it will be – economically – not only by €2.4 billion, but also by a number of more than 2,000 less road traffic injuries. I hope that this will be fully confirmed in two years' time after a review. Then, at least, we have had great success with this and perhaps we will be able to discuss it again here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20596	Mrs Bayr is speaking. 3 minutes welcome. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20618	Mr President. The Secretary of State! High house! Too two. On the one hand, on my request, which the government parties will then reject, which I introduced here two years ago and which was discussed for the first time in the Committee at the end of June 2004, where Mr. State Secretary Mainoni admitted at that time that there is a need for action for both vehicle registration owners and motorcycles, as far as spare parts are concerned, that their assembly is unlikely to involve major bureaucratic obstacles. State Secretary Mainoni has meant that there is a great need for action, and in this request it is also suggested that § 22a should be re-regulated in the Motor Driving Act implementing regulation. This is the list where is cited, what can be mounted. – However, since then, nothing has happened! For the application of spare parts that are not really relevant to road safety, there is still a “battle” of bureaucracy; there are still shocks, even if you are plowing and moaning now. [[in the direction of Secretary of State Mag. Mainoni]] This does not make the shocks smaller, nor does the bureaucracy. There are costs for the holders of the authorisation, there are costs for the authorities. Therefore: I am not quite clear what is meant to be so “useful” that you show such persistence by the government parties and do not move in this regard at all. It does not bring anything, as I said, but it only has disadvantages for everyone, and that is not really rational either. But that might be one of the guiding thoughts you follow. On the question: Light also in the daytime. From my point of view, the hearing that we had in the Committee did not really produce clear results, and it was not really clear that if everyone driving lightly on the day now, the road safety would automatically increase for all road users. I just recall an example also mentioned by the experts in hearing, namely Denmark, where since the introduction of light-based driving the number of injured and injured pedestrians/walkers has increased by 5 per cent on the day. From my point of view, even in this hearing, problems have not really been resolved by glares that may result from irritant floods and distractions. I would also like to take the following into account: When the legislator introduced light a day many years ago for single-track vehicles, it was about making a safety disadvantage to have the handlebar of single-track vehicles on the basis of their smaller, narrower silhouette, it was about increasing their recognition by additional light. The fact is that the facts and the conditions have not changed since then. Nevertheless: At least this compromise has come to mean that light is now introduced for drivers for two years on a daily basis and then evaluated. And certainly then all the political groups – not only ours – will see if there are really fewer accidents, which I naturally hope very much. Even from the point of view of motorcycle drivers/motorcyclists, I think this two-year term is a common opportunity, a compromise. I very much hope that the pedestrians and cyclists will no longer get under the wheels. And I really hope from the bottom of my heart that what we decide here today will lead to fewer deaths in traffic and not to too much. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20672	Mr Kößl is now speaking to us for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20693	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! ==References== For many years, a measure on increased road safety will be introduced into a legislative framework, namely driving with light also on a day-to-day basis. As far as driving with light by day – this has already been addressed – it is true that even the experts did not agree. Does this mean more security or waste of resources? As an executive, I am convinced that this is an important step towards greater road safety. Therefore: All that brings about greater road safety is not only to discuss but also to implement it. If today more than 50 percent of drivers are already driving light by day, and according to a survey, they feel more secure than 70 percent, I think that this is generally considered more of road safety. In Austria Although we have a declining number of road fatalities and injuries, this figure is still too high. The Federal Government has endeavoured to significantly reduce the number of accidents and fatalities caused by bundled measures. That is why we must not ignore a reasonable measure – not just driving with light a day – in order to achieve this goal. I have already mentioned that even the experts were not quite agreed, but I am convinced that it was right in the final effect and in the weighing of all for and against, and that we are coming to this law decision today in a four-party agreement. I believe that this will in fact prove to be an essential contribution to a greater level of road safety. A study in the Netherlands has shown that this measure has had a positive effect, not only on multi-track vehicles, but also on so-called weak road users, such as pedestrians and cyclists, and I am convinced that this is an essential contribution to raising road safety in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the state of this law; also the experts are grateful for their contribution!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20739	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Your welcome time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20760	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Adding to the KFG-Novelle, I would like to see it positive that we are now creating a basis for dual training as a driver's license, which is better in terms of training, but also leads to a reduction in the cost of driving licences, which is very relevant for young people. We have already pointed out in the Committee that we think it is negative that this school bus transport rule will not be changed. [[Abg. May. Control: Is changed!]] Yes, when travelling on 3 : 2. However, when we consider where children and young people drive mainly, we see that they drive mainly in school buses to school and buses to kindergarten, and there remains the 3 : 2 rule. That means that children are still unprotected. I am also on my way regularly with the school bus, from Dorfgastein to St. Johann im Pongau, and this is really not very pleasant, you have to say how the children are transported there when they are standing on their feet or sitting on their feet and there are great pressures. These are always only children, adults hardly perceive this because they don't take buses, and that's why I don't think this is taken very seriously. Of course, it is associated with a cost increase because more buses have to travel, but it also means an increase in safety and also has to do with the appreciation of the integrity of children. One last final word for driving light a day in Europe. We have also discussed the fact that the situation of Fleckerlteppich in Europe is not particularly useful. These are the different countries that have already introduced driving with light a day, like all Scandinavian countries, including the newly added countries, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Baltic countries, but in Italy there is also the rule: [[the speaker shall present a graphic]] Clearing light outside of towns. We would be very much in favour of European unification so that we do not always have to grumble: How am I doing now? – Am I just driving right or wrong?, but there is a general rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20806	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mainoni. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20827	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am really happy about the way in which the discussion on this important subject of driving with light a day took place in the Transport Committee. It was an unbiased discussion, free from party politics, and finally, on the basis of the statements of experts who showed substantial innovations and made interesting contributions, one was convinced that driving with light per day has mostly advantages for safety in traffic. I may, however, return briefly to the starting position of our ministry, to what was actually the basis. The basis was on the one hand that, as has already been said today, in a transport safety initiative, we are striving for a drastic reduction in the number of people killed in road transport by 50 percent and the number of accidents by 2010. Further starting point of our decisions was the fact that in other European countries, as Mr Rester-Hintersieer has already mentioned, such arrangements already exist and this is successful: Sweden, Finland and Norway on all roads all year round, Lithuania, Poland and the Czech Republic on all roads in winter, Italy on free country roads all year round, Hungary on free country roads all year round and Spain in preparation, at least all year round. Ladies and gentlemen! That was the one corner point. Another key point in this context was the recognition of the road safety board that up to 30 fatalities can be prevented by driving with light per day. And that was crucial for us, in conjunction with a survey by the ÖAMTC, which has shown that 71 percent of vehicle drivers are good for driving with light a day and 56 percent are even driving with light a day. These were the key points that were crucial for us to have decided to prepare this law and to discuss it in the Transport Committee and here in the plenary session. It is, of course, clear – and you should also talk about it – that there will be a need for optimization. Therefore, the sensible decision to carry out a review of this law within two years and to optimise where necessary. It is also very important for us, however, that the decision should be taken unanimously here in the House because we want to update this issue in the light of the EU Presidency next year and that the European Union adopt directives that provide for day-time running lights to be introduced throughout Europe, i.e. driving with light a day. We are of the opinion – also the experts, and that was for us the The key reason is that driving with light per day will contribute to increasing road safety, preventing accidents and, above all, reducing the number of people killed in road traffic by up to 30 per year. All of this was the decisive reason for our decision, and I am very pleased that this decision here in the House will be a vast majority, yes, I hope it will also find unanimity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20872	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20894	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! It is truly gratifying that the number of traffic accidents is reversed. The results in the first half of the year have shown that 13 percent less cases are due in particular in the accident kill sector than in the previous year. The Transport Safety Board even states that almost half the number of road fatalities has been achieved compared to 1990. This shows that transport policy and in particular the transport safety programme of transport minister Gorbach is really very successful. The opposition has very often not been able to gain anything from road safety; I am thinking only of the pre-eminence system or of the introduction of warning vests. Therefore, I see it very positive that SPÖ and Greens have now recognised how useful these transport safety measures are, and that they are united in their commitment to agree with the government parties on the introduction of light on a day-to-day basis. The benefits of this measure are indeed obvious: once again, the reduction in the number of road fatalities, the injured, which on the one hand reduces suffering but on the other hand also saves the cost of the economy. It has been calculated that, due to the prevention of traffic accidents, over € 175 million of costs per year are less affected. In contrast to initial fears, experts also argued that even for pedestrians and cyclists, especially for children and seniors, more safety is guaranteed by driving with light per day. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not clear to me why the SPÖ, particularly in the Committee, does not agree with other measures of this motor vehicle law Novelle. But maybe think about it. You still agree here in plenary. I am surprised that you are against environmental protection when it comes to taking into account regulations on type-approval, in particular environmental measures, that you are against safety when it comes to introducing safety belts in larger trucks. And I am particularly surprised that you are basically opposed to the new driver's license training, where the training can be done in private, for example by driving with private persons, 1,000 kilometres. I am surprised that in the future, where this makes driving licence training cheaper for young Austrians, you are opposed by SPÖ, but perhaps you still think about it. In any case, we welcome these Novelle motor vehicles legislation with all measures for road safety, for environmental protection and for reducing the cost of driving licences.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20937	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e20958	Mr President. My dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we have to say that we in the Transport Committee have achieved a good consensus, as we believe, because we have held open talks. Of course, the experts expressed different opinions, but considering that 800 people in Austria and 62,000 in Europe die every year in road accidents, it must be said that the achievement of small targets in transport policy is also necessary. Mr Miedl and Mr Eder have already said, as a transport speaker, that it is expected that accidents will be reduced by three percent and that fewer people may be harmed. The introduction of driving with light a day was, I believe, a success. There were also controversial positions on the part of the experts, but at the end of the day we decided, in a very open discussion, to accept this novel or the law. I think that's important. It has already been said in detail what impact driving with light per day has on road safety. I don't need to go closer to that. But because the Federal Minister spoke in the Mosaic Stones Committee, I would also like to say something so that it is not understood as a cuddly course that we agree and are so nice – because Mrs Achleitner has also made certain points of view: For example, in the Committee on Transport, ladies and gentlemen behind me, we have put in 38 requests, and in the end some are still slumbering in the Committee – and these are also transport policy and important points! [[in the direction of the State Secretary Mag. Kukacka and Mag. Mainoni]] I think you should also deal with the opposition in such a way that you can take up an idea, if it is a good idea – and not leave it simply, because it comes from the opposition. Mrs Achleitner, as you have already said so much about saving the driver's license: You must have read the “NEWS ” last week. We will have 1 percent more fuel consumption on day-to-day driving, but look at how much this federal government has finally caught the drivers in five years' time. [[the speaker shows a double page of the magazine “NEWS” entitled “So casht Grasser Autodriver”]] These were cost explosions! I can, because the light at the speaker's desk already shines, I can't count the whole thing, Mrs Achleitner. There's a driver's license fee against what the Federal Government takes the drivers out of the bag! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner: But still you vote against it!]] You should also take a heart and analyze why, for example, there is an increase of 20 percent in insurance companies, where toll has increased by 74 percent. This is much, much more than what can be saved through your driving licence philosophy that might do that privately. 1 000 € per year since 2000, this Federal Government has taken the drivers out of the bag! We would like to agree to driving with light a day, but I would like to give this to you for thought so that you can think about the 1 000 €. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21008	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. He even wants to talk to us for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21029	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr Marizzi, I will also give you something to think about: Oil prices have increased by 30 € per barrel. For social reasons, has the OMC passed this on to Austrian drivers, yes or no? So far to this point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And the Ruttenstorfer is what kind of group?]] The amendment to the Motor Driving Act takes into account the current development. By creating an approval database in which the vehicle specific data are stored, the parallel import becomes from 1. It facilitates approval on the basis of a so-called conformity certificate on July 2007. This will implement a long-term call for farmers. This makes an important contribution to debureaucratisation also in the agricultural sector, which enables our industry to save. This will strengthen the competitiveness of our domestic businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So far, direct import to Austria often required several months of waiting time for individual typifications and costs, in special cases up to € 1,000. This has created problems specifically for those small businesses that specialize in special cultures. Another advantage of this KFG-Novelle is that large-scale agricultural vehicles may use yellow-red warning lights in the future, for the safety of all road users. A sensible and efficient building block, this KFG novelle! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21070	Mr Reheis is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21091	Mr President. Expensive members of the Federal Government! Dear High House! I refer to the motion for a resolution (Doc. I do not think it is necessary to stress in this House that the main cause of noise is road traffic. Noise makes you sick. Transit in our federal states and Austria on our roads is massively damaging to the population, and especially the locals are severely affected and damaged by noise. Our request would have been to develop a definition of slim tyres and to provide for a label that the environmentally conscious consumer can choose and buy low-noise products, low-noise tyres. In addition, it would have been in our interest that you, as the Federal Government, have discussions with the vehicle industry to align the equipment of the vehicle industry to low-noise tyres. We know that from a speed of 50 kilometres already, the tire noises are in the foreground and any reduction becomes massively noticeable, including for the arrivings. There are studies on this. The noise savings in such tyres would represent up to 3 decibels. Unfortunately, there are no possibilities offered by the Federal Government to choose a product that is marked accordingly. I wonder, What Is Forgiving You agree with such a label? The consumer should decide! Or: What Is Forgiving Are you talking to the vehicle industry? If I am already here at the speaker's desk, I would also like to ask the following question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: I have here a press release of the APA on ‘Less EU money for burners’. Unfortunately, it is not possible to address this more in three minutes, but perhaps after this discussion, which took place between the Federal Minister and the coordinator responsible for it, Karel van Miert, on the occasion of his visit to Vienna, you could also answer the question of how the EU's co-financing actually looks after this press release in the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21134	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21155	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! [[Call:]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] In principle, of course, I also welcome any measure that contributes to road safety and, above all, to reducing the number of road fatalities. As far as the truck belt requirement in heavy trucks is concerned, you know, I am a vehicle manufacturer myself, and I can only absolutely support it. I was in Sweden recently and saw movies there about what is happening. It is vital that people be aware of the fact that even in heavy trucks, the passengers and the handlebars beat themselves. This can prevent a lot of suffering. To Mr von der ÖVP: The establishment of this approval database, of course, is not only for agriculture but also for the whole economy. We entrepreneurs are European entrepreneurs, we sometimes buy vehicles from other European countries, and of course this is of benefit to us. A problem has been mentioned here – I do not know a solution – because it has happened twice recently on the West motorway, namely these accidents due to a second sleep, which has caused eight deaths. As I said, I do not know the solution to this problem either, I would just ask you to think in the ministry about what you can do about it. [[Abg. Neudeck: Less long driving!]] One thing you have to say: It is known that truck drivers have tachograph discs and that the operating times are precisely prescribed for them. You can drive four hours, have to take an hour's break and then drive for another four hours. On the other hand, if you sit in the car today and drive to London for me, no one will do anything with a passenger car driver. Of course, this is not an alien problem, but it just happened to us. The same thing would happen, I'd put myself in the car now and drive to Rome. One simply has to think about this, because if one wants to minimize the number of road fatalities, one also has to consider the problem of fatigue in road transport, not least because of the fact that overtired drivers could, of course, also threaten other road users and die. As I said, I don't know any solution, but raising consciousness might be the optimal thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21206	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21227	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! It has already been said several times today: The increase in the safety of all road users is certainly not an objective that can easily be achieved. This is for me the actual outcome of the partly very controversial debate on ‘light a day’. In my view, the compromise that has now been reached is that the shielding lights in all vehicles must be switched on every day, but can only serve as an intermediate solution. Of course, the use of the passing lights as day lighting also presupposes the presence of properly adjusted headlamps. In this context, I would like to point out that the extension of the intervals for the recurring review referred to in § 57a for new cars has given rise to an alarming increase – not only the traffic experts but also the ARBÖ and the ÖAMTC – of faulty set headlamps and also higher exhaust values. I would therefore ask the Ministry of Transport to launch a campaign to inform drivers about the correct maintenance and use of the existing lighting. These points should also be dealt with explicitly in the review report after the two-year test phase. High house! The alternative technically optimal solution – and this is also the result of this expert hearing – must be the equipment of vehicles with special daylights or must be the next step. [[Abg. Neudeck: Just like the fictitrants! They have such lanterns,...!]] Mr Commissioner, I would even recommend that you listen to such an expert hearing. [[Abg. Neudeck: But I have to listen to you now!]] You may then be given a light personally, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – This gentle daylight with reduced intensity causes a quarter of the additional spray consumption compared to the passing light. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since the cars are not only built for the Austrian market, it must be our next goal to find a solution at European level. [[Abg. Neudeck: The front wipers for your glasses!]] Other points in the KFG-Novelle, however, certainly do not contribute to increasing road safety. It has already been mentioned a few times today that, in our view, student transport has certainly not come to a satisfactory solution, because it is very difficult that three children can be transported on a two-seat bench even in the future. It is precisely a fact that this law, especially for students, does not provide any protection for children and no additional security, and that is really very bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21295	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21316	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With this 26th. KFG-Novelle is a bundle of measures implemented. There was a desire from 1999 to allow parallel imports for motor vehicles. That's what's been up to now. only with individual typifications possible, which have caused costs of € 200. The novelle thus takes a step towards cost relief and red tape reduction and, of course, also a time saving. It will now begin to establish an approval database, and with the creation of this database it will be with 1. It is possible to speed up this authorisation procedure on July 2007. All in all, I think, a very sensible measure. New and used vehicles are also included in this database. General importers can access this database directly. And, of course, it is possible that straight self-driving machines and special machinery will be used in Austria as quickly and as quickly as possible. Imports will be easier, faster and cheaper. It benefits producers, customers, businesses, and, of course, there is also a certain relief for the authorities. Europe is an economic area, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that it is therefore also necessary for us to be active and active in this economic area under the same and fair conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21355	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. Requested time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21377	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, security is the top priority for this federal government – whether it be the security of jobs, the security of the economic location or the security of each individual and every individual. The statistics show that Austria has also become more traffic safe in recent years. And in order to continue this consistent path of increasing traffic safety, we decide today with the KFG-Novelle also the use of light a day. Every traffic accident is a traffic accident too much, and it is important to do everything possible to achieve a further reduction by means of targeted measures. In many European countries, light has already become reality a day and contributes to increased safety, especially on highways and motorways. In Austria, half of the car drivers are already voluntarily turning on the light a day – this is almost a doubling of the values in the last five years. An even higher value of so-called light drivers can be measured on the motorway: Here at least two thirds of the light is switched on a day. An ÖAMTC survey shows that 71 percent of the car drivers surveyed are for light a day. This means that every car driver feels more secure now when driving light a day. “Light drivers are more visible”, that was already a campaign more than 20 years ago, and I think that we have now implemented what was smiled by the posters at that time – a clear proof that it is simply obvious to many that light increases their safety as road users during the day, and that they feel much better when they are visible. The introduction at 15. November can also raise the awareness of the car drivers during the transition period in view of the benefits of light on the day. The KFG-Novelle brings us more safety on our roads and thus another signal for a safe Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21417	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21438	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Mr Marizzi: We have done very well with this Committee on Transport, which, as has already been said, has been extremely constructive. I think that should be mentioned in this case. I believe that this is also the goal – if they have been partially rejected, that is true. I would also like to mention, in this context, the very constructive role of Secretary of State Kukacka, who has contributed to solutions in some respects. I believe that this has certainly done well in the quality of the laws. I'm just thinking about the evaluation in light a day. Well, there are many changes to this law. The most important thing has already been discussed very thoroughly and very often, that is the determination regarding light a day. It certainly affects almost every one of us, and I believe that the objective of introducing a daylight across Europe is a common one. Of the other points in this novel, I would like to mention briefly the possibility of a higher ton limit for round-wood wastes and canal vehicles. The ever-reflective reflection of the opposition parties is absolutely unexplainable to me, because necessary adaptations to the real economy are, I believe, quite simply to make. I would also like to mention the direct imports and other agricultural reliefs, such as the use of a yellow-red warning lamp. To conclude, I would like to say: There are a number of provisions that we have with this 26. Change KFG-Novelle. We are thus making a major contribution to debureaucratisation in the jungle of all these provisions, and we are finally implementing some EU directives with this innovation. We will be happy to agree, and it would be nice if the opposition could also agree on all points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21482	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21503	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The package of measures that we will adopt today is dedicated to road safety and is intended to further increase transport safety in Austria. This means less traffic deaths, but that means less suffering and pain in particular. If I look at a list here, the introduction of the 100 km/h speed limit on federal roads in 1973 resulted in a first massive reduction in the number of road fatalities, in 1974 the speed limit of 130 km/h was introduced on motorways, and also with the introduction of the belt requirement in 1984 the number of fatalities could be reduced. I think that these measures introduced at the time are natural today. That's the way it's going to be. Finally, the measure is light a day – a large number of road users already activate it today – in some time of course. If you look at the accident statistics and the main causes of accidents, dangerous overtakings are the most common causes of accidents, the violation of the priority rule, but also excessive speed. That's where light a day means a significant improvement. If we look at the so-called Fleckerlteppich in Europe, as Mrs Rester-Hinterseer has said, I think Austria is also playing a pioneering role on this issue. I also advocate that the light regulation be introduced in a uniform manner throughout Europe, but we are again a right step ahead. A German study shows that the introduction of light per day increases road safety. It is also noted that we are one step ahead of Germany. I am pleased that there is a four-party proposal and that we will accept it unanimously, which will undoubtedly bring about a significant improvement in the sense of road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21545	Now, Mrs Machne is speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21567	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! After the very interesting opinions of the experts in the Transport Committee, I personally felt the most convinced arguments of Dr. Thann from the Transport Safety Board that the introduction of light a day is really useful. Light a day, I think, actually promotes our traffic safety in a great way. If you are a car driver yourself, you notice – that has already been said today – that the majority of the drivers already have light a day, and you also notice that you can see a illuminated car even by day better than an unlit car. For us, living at the Italian border, it is not a special change to drive with light a day, since in Italy light has been mandatory for a long time. Minimum fuel consumption and associated air pollution are essential for road safety. The so-called daytime driving lights, which are switched on at the same time as the ignition, are of course an ideal solution. I am also sure that the subsequent installation is very soon offered by the car workshops at low cost prices. The ideal solution would, of course, be a Europe-wide solution. I am sure that Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach is also seeking this – and it is nevertheless important that we adopt this law today. I would like to thank our two State Secretarys for preparing and presenting this transport safety measure. And I am pleased that, despite some or all initial scepticism, all Members agree to this traffic safety law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21607	The last speaker is Mr Preineder. He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21630	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! High house! I am pleased that after this transport debate, the 26th meeting will be held. Novelle is to be passed. This is a further step towards greater road safety. This will allow us to achieve a reduction in the number of fatalities when traffic is constantly increasing. That is, I believe, a very important and valuable goal. The most intense discussion triggered the theme of light a day. All the more so, I am glad that after consulting experts, there was a corresponding unanimity to be achieved here. And I think it was clear to all members of the committee that the daytime lamp is our common goal across Europe. A second important point in this novel concerns large-scale agricultural vehicles. These can now use an orange swivel light – which has already been used before. And here too: A visible danger is only half the danger. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Imports of vehicles, equipment and agricultural machinery are also facilitated. The creation of an approval database will simplify direct imports of machinery and equipment from the European Economic Area. This step reduces import barriers for tractors and equipment and reduces red tape for farmers and the economy. Until now, several months of waiting time for individual typifications and costs of around 200 € had to be purchased for direct imports to Austria. The new approval database, in which vehicle specific data are stored on vehicles, will bring future reliefs. All in all: more security and less bureaucracy. This is another step on the way: certainly less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21674	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, with which the Motor Driving Act 1967, the 3rd and the 4th. Novelle is amended in 1102 of the Supplements. Mr Eder has asked for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We shall vote separately on Rule 1(83) as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever comes in third reading for this draft law, I ask for a sign. – This has been accepted by the majority in the third reading. We shall vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 1103 of the additions. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This is given by a majority. We come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1104 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This report is also adopted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 1105 of the additions. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This sign is also given by a majority. [[19:48:18]] 17. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1060, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Risk Goods Promotion Act (GGGG-Novelle 2005) (1106 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21772	We reach the 17th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. Mr Steier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Its welcome time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21799	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Two aspects are particularly important to us when assessing the current legislation on the carriage of dangerous goods: On the one hand, it is undisputed that the implementation of international rules is necessary and essential, but at the same time a number of changes have been incorporated into the draft law, which is subject to purely national government competence and which we see in particular as extremely problematic. These changes originate in a catalogue of claims of the Chamber of Commerce and will lead to a evasion of existing, stricter national rules on the transport of dangerous goods, such as, for example, the changes in criminal and forced measures or those which, despite identified shortcomings, are intended to enable the carriage of dangerous goods. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! It is hardly surprising, therefore, that some of the envisaged arrangements in the review procedure have been very critically assessed, as the proposed amendments, as it is said, include: on the one hand understandable demands of an entrepreneurship interest representative, on the other hand they permanently undermine the safety standards of Austrian property rights and thus overall transport safety. The evasion of existing safety standards in the field of dangerous goods transport is absolutely counterproductive. I can remind you that TÜV warned in April of the fact that too many dangerous goods transports with some blatant deficiencies are on our roads. In this context, there is a report from the EU Commission, which, for the years 1997 to 2002, states in a dangerous goods transport identification report that Austria is an absolute leader in infringements per control, namely 1,39 violations per control. At the European average, there are 0.26 violations. That means: The danger potentials on the roads are characterized by worn-out tires and, in part, rusted brakes. Competition and profit maximisation among freight forwarders, poorly maintained vehicles and overloaded long-distance drivers lead without additional checks to that dangerous mix, namely to the rolling bombs on our land roads. Ladies and gentlemen, given the possible consequences of the new regulations that the government parties are trying to adopt today, it is probably only the appeal, the safety standards for the transport of dangerous goods, to take a lot more seriously, because, in the event of accidents, the transport of dangerous goods does not only pose a high risk. If these rolling bombs are involved in accidents, not only the road users are at risk, but also the people around the accident. I therefore conclude by saying: The health and safety of people should be higher than the economic lobby of some of the fans. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21848	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21869	Mr President. High house! In contrast to my previous speaker, I must say that the current novelle does not affect security in any way. Firstly, this novelle is absolutely necessary. We know that we have a very modern freight transport law, which refers to the important hazard goods regulations in international law: the ADR, the RID, the ADN and the ICAO rules. And these rules are being tightened continuously. Every two years there is a line, so to speak, and what has been re-recognised must then be implemented. That is, if we do not decide today, we would not accept many more stringent legal systems in international freight transport law. We also have legal uncertainty. Therefore, please, this law must be passed. Secondly, there are security improvements and updates in this law. I refer, for example, to the fact that the public security service in the future can also carry out controls in the companies, which is very important, or that the federal police have to participate in the implementation of the law. The way forward, which has been mentioned here, can only be allowed if the deficiencies do not affect road safety. Otherwise, if there are medium or severe defects and no fixation has been made, no further action shall be taken. Thirdly, it is certainly essential for the economy that we now come to a shared criminal framework from the previously undifferentiated criminal framework. Infringements have been classified into serious, medium and slight infringements. 134 cases were listed here and allocated accordingly. And, of course, the penalties range from a lower amount of euro for minor infringements to much higher penalties for serious infringements. So far, it has been true that it has often been punished completely indiscriminately, if for example only the occupation has not voted a hundred percent: the color on the edge was not accurate or the size did not fit by one or another centimeters. These penalties have always been added additively and have, de facto, often threatened the existence of the companies. It is now true that it is clearly stated where road safety is in fact seriously affected and where it is only a slight offense. The executive can then really punish much more justly. Overall, this is a significant progress. As I said, We must adopt the amended regulations anyway, because this means that we are putting modern international property law into Austrian law. I'm actually a little disappointed that the opposition doesn't want to agree here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21923	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 5 minutes welcome. 3 minutes. [[Abg.: (on the way to the speaker's desk) It's getting shorter! Three minutes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21958	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker was disappointed; with us Greens it is clear that security is just going on. You're right: On the one hand, UN, i.e. international, on the other, implement EU, i.e. European, standards, and that certainly brings some improvements. On the other hand, however, certain, now more stringent criminal provisions are remedied. In this respect, a somewhat more peaceful manuscript can be seen in this government paper. It makes me a little stupid when the countries trigger the consultation mechanism. This is already a warning to me that the case law may go in the wrong direction, and that we need stronger rules that really expand and improve these standards in freight transport – we have already heard – in favour of the truck drivers themselves, in favour of the freighters who have fewer accidents to fear, so that their goods can be safely addressed in favour of, above all, the general road users and, last but not least, in favour of the population living in the environment of transport and who may also be affected by freight transport – if there are more dangerous goods. That is why we prefer to be on the cautious side and reject this government proposal as inadequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e21988	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22010	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Steier, it is already strange that you turn this around. We're in the question of security party, including in the case of dangerous goods. And in this innovation, security is an essential part. When I look at how many points there are inside, not only will the penalties be increased, but also the adaptation of the control of dangerous goods to the EU directive and the classification into three categories of danger. It contains a large number of measures in this draft law, which continues to maintain and improve safety. I'm just thinking about storage areas and vehicle depots that need to be secured and well lit. Unauthorised entry is prohibited. There's a backup plan. Staff must be able to identify themselves. In addition, there is a list of Austrianally trained dangerous goods drivers. I am directly grateful that Mrs Moser has recognized this in certain areas. The fact that it is critical right now is legitimate. But I've heard that you're similar to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22042	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22063	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittauer, it is not a question of reversing a law or a proposal, but it is a question of complying with regulations. This federal law is adapted to international regulations. Positively, I would point out here that, in the sense of the accident prevention, reports relating to the transport of dangerous goods to the Minister of Transport are planned. However, negative to this law and to this proposal is the fact that further liberalisation comes entirely within the meaning of the questioners. This leads to significant disadvantages in this area, especially for workers who are faced with increased liability in particular. In principle, this novelle is a kneefall in front of the economy. Mr Steier has already mentioned it, there has been a demand catalogue for a long time. Three demands of the Chamber of Commerce have been implemented, namely, first of all, no undue long delays in the transport of checks. Despite shortcomings, it can be continued. Secondly, the introduction of a criminal record, which means a reduction in the fine. And thirdly, the cancellation of the penalties for the holders of the licence. These three points alone, ladies and gentlemen, are measures and rules which certainly do not serve to lift safety and control in the transport of dangerous goods. In addition, the report by the EU Commission shows that there are above-average violations in the case of dangerous goods in Austria. In summary, it is said: Safety and control are very important to us. It is about people, it is about road users and, last but not least, about the forces that have been stressed again and again in the event of accidents. This law permanently undermines the security measures of Austrian dangerous goods law and therefore general road safety, and therefore we reject this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22104	The last speaker was Mr Wattaul. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22127	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I don't see it like this: The law has been heightened in view of the threats posed by terrorism. Additional costs will be incurred for entrepreneurs in the future. The following is good for the driver: The law now states that the driver can rely on what the shipper has given him; that was not the case before. That's positive for the driver. I also believe that the criminal framework has to be changed because the minimum penalty of 10 000 s in a small offence was simply too high. Let me give you an example: If there was no expiry date on a fire extinguisher, the entrepreneur had to pay 10 000 S fine and the driver 1 000 S. I think that was not appropriate. Now there is a practical solution. Another comment on EU statistics: Mr President, we have to say, of course, that we have a lot of border area in Austria and that many people come from the Eastern countries. Of course, the checks are carried out in Austria and then Austria is included. It is necessary to look more closely at the statistics whether the Austrian or foreign questioner was the one who was controlled in Austria. So you can't do it that easy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22160	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1106 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Whoever agrees to the law in third reading, I also ask for a sign. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. [[20:03:09]] 18. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (1001, e.g._Other Organiser Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and Treaty of the International Telecommunications Union, Geneva 1992, as amended by the Conference of Plenipotentiaries of Government (Kyoto 1994) and by the Conference of Plenipotentiaries of Government (Minneapolis 1998); Letter amending the Statutes and the Treaty of the International Telecommunications Union (Marrakesh 2002) together with declarations and reservations (1107 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22207	We're going to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Rester-Hinterseer has spoken. Your preferred speaking time is 4 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22234	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! This State Treaty is an adjustment to technical arrangements. The tasks of the Inter- National Telecommunications Union. This institution shall be responsible for standardising telecommunications, assigning and coordinating radio frequencies and, inter alia, preparing studies on technical, operational and collective matters. These tasks are a good opportunity to recall the questions of mobile communications. In this respect, there are already several petitions that have always been sent in circulation, such as the WHO and the European Commission petitions, which called for the immediate launch of the prospected inter-ministerial and interdisciplinary round table, with the participation of the mobile mobile platform initiatives, to develop a law on protection against electromagnetic fields. For a long time, citizens' initiatives and affected groups have been very dissatisfied with the fact that nothing happens that nothing goes on. Communities are also affected by the fact that the measures are always delayed. Local authorities are very often not asked or informed about the mobile systems being installed on their local territory. And there are examples that are also organised in the International Telecommunications Union, such as Italy. Italy has provided for an industrial-dependent review and monitoring after installation, as well as for the creation of a public-accessible Immission Scatter. That means people can watch: Where are mobile systems, with what frequency and with what load? I would urgently ask that at last work be carried out or that this round table be installed to deal with such issues as radio field measurement in a liner bus. There is a new opinion or a measurement in Munich, where it has been suggested that when several people make telephone calls on a public transport system in a regular bus with a mobile phone, a huge multiply of the radiation load results. We know that in public transport, many children, young people and also older people are on the road, who are then exposed to this radiation unprotected. There's a blatant difference whether you're still calling your cell phone outdoors or going to the bus. The load not only increases for those who telephone, but also for the environment, for those who are located in their immediate surroundings, extremely. That is why I call on you to take action at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22289	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall therefore immediately vote on the request of the Transport Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1001 of the Supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion from the Committee on Transport, within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 B-VG that the identification of the Arabic, Chinese, English, Russian and Spanish language versions should be made they have been involved in public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. Whoever gives the consent, I ask for a sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously. [[20:08:50]] 19. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (681 D.B._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the accident investigation body of the federal state (accident investigation law) and the Aviation Act, the Railway Act 1957, the Shipping Act and the Motor Driving Act 1967 (1108 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution 247/A by Mr Kurt Eder, colleagues, on a Federal Act establishing a Federal Office for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions Transport (Bundesamt für Verkehrs-Law – BAVG) adopted and the Federal Act of 23 December 1989 (Federal Law of 23 December 1989) ==References====External links==* Official website In July 1960, the law on the transport of goods with motor vehicles (GütbefG), the Federal Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods (GGBG 1998), the Federal Law on the Sustainable Waste Management (GWG 2002), the Federal Act on the Implementation of the Convention on the International Transport of Lightly Degradable Food and on the Special Transports to be used for this Transport (ATP implementing Act 1970), the Federal Act on Safe Containers (Container Safety Act (CSG)), the German Federal Law on the Tax Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law 21. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 400/A (E) by Mr Kurt Eder, Members of Parliament, on the introduction of legally binding limit values for the handling of roads and a priority programme for the elimination of accidents (1110 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22372	We now come to points 19 to 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His welcome time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22401	Mr President. Mr Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to be able to tell you that we can agree to the accident investigation law today and that this also ensures the two-thirds majority. However, I would like to stress that we originally disagreed with the draft as it is available to us. We have then been able to negotiate a number of points in this law, which were very important to us, such as the fact that there is no parallel investigation of the investigative body and the prosecutor's office, thus avoiding double track record, that there is an improved legal protection for the accused, that the investigation powers of the accident investigation body have been clarified, that some provisions of the Railway Safety Directive could already be implemented in an early presumption, and – ladies and gentlemen, this was a special concern to us after the many accidents of recent times – that cableway accidents can also be investigated at the time by the independent accident investigation centre. This is also a signal from the tourist country Austria. Tourists should be able to feel safe and comfortable on Austrian cable cars. Ladies and gentlemen! These agenda items also deal with two more requests. One is a request from the Socialist Group concerning the introduction of a comprehensive test procedure or the installation of a Federal Office for the Transport of Goods, which has been in the Transport Committee for a very long time. It was not about installing another office, but about setting up the new office for freight transport as a new authority, but ultimately resorting to organisations that are already in place and which have so far been entrusted with the agents of the freight road to road control. These are currently around 20 different federal and rural authorities that do not correspond to each other, and this does not ensure a comprehensive control of trucks on motorways and roads. We have already noted that there are more efficient controls in Germany, where there is this office, and there is a easier way to find fishermen who do not comply with the rules of the game, to comply with the laws than in Austria. Perhaps we will be able to discuss these things again later and make a further request, even if it is rejected here today. I am also completely incomprehensible about the way in which I have been dealing with another request, which has been in Parliament for a very long time and which has already been heard by Minister of Transport Forstinger. This application deals with the introduction of legally binding limit values for road handling. This is possible, for example, in Bavaria, but also in other federal states of Germany. This has the advantage in particular that the drivers can rely on the fact that in certain road conditions such as wetness or smoothness the road has an appropriate grip. This can be determined by means of standards. In Austria, however, it is unfortunately the case that the limestone lobby prevails and asphalt is mixed primarily with limestone and therefore the road surfaces do not have the grip they would have if they were mixed with hard stone. That's a shame. This is also the case at the Semmering tunnel exits, as the Semme- ring tunnel was finished, noticed. If the grip had been prescribed there, there would have been no slides at the tunnel exits. I also draw attention to the fact that drivers who comply with the speed regulations, whose tyres are in order and which have an accident when wet, have been able to sue the ASFINAG or the road keeper if the road does not comply with the appropriate grip rules. I can only appeal that it would be necessary, above all in the case of accidents, in other words, where there are a lot of accidents, to prescribe this type of handling so that accidents can be avoided. I hope, Mr State Secretary, that we can continue to talk about this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22456	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22478	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The accident investigation law in the proposed variant is a two-thirds matter. I would say, Mr Eder, it was living parliamentaryism. In fact, due to the objections of the other parties, we have made some progress. From my point of view and from the point of view of the EIA, it is essentially about the fact that, in the future, data from accidents occurring will not be stored, that the collection of facts does not disappear somewhere in the back desk store, but that these facts can be worked on in the sense of accident prevention, accident prevention. Very often, due to the same misbehaviour, traffic accidents or accidents occur again and again, and no one is there who clears and informs what one can do to prevent such accidents. I know this myself because I have been a traffic accident statistics for over 12 years. It has been identified in thousands of hours of work, and these investigations have been carried out. I think that this knowledge is simply too valuable to be stored in the files. I therefore say on behalf of the ÖVP that, of course, we are confessing to the UG, but we believe that we need to do a lot more in addition. I think we need the universities for accident research more urgently than ever. We need a much stronger accident prevention in all areas, whether that is the car traffic, whether that is the traffic on the rail, on the cable car or on the waterway. We need accident prevention! As legislators, we need the knowledge to prevent accidents in the future. That is, ladies and gentlemen: As far as I am concerned as a transport politician, there is no dialogue between politics, science and practitioners, and we very often have to act with feelings in the creation of laws. Therefore, I believe that science is much more involved in this field. There will be a two-thirds majority. I think it is possible to reach a four-party agreement, ladies and gentlemen. There has been a compromise which was indispensable from the point of view of the SPÖ representatives. Of course, I still have a lot of demands and ideas to make. I don't think there's been any evening. There is still a need for further action in the interests of increased road safety. Eh. The start can be started today. I look forward to the four-party agreement on the accident investigation law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22520	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22541	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, there's a consensus, but consensus has been waiting a long time. This relatively important law has already been developed in 2004 and has always left the Transport Committee unfinishedly. Now it's finally going on, and I think it's high time. On the one hand, we implement EU templates and EU requirements, on the other hand, we now have the opportunity – it is strange that you as a government group regret it – to push ahead with the dialogue with science, but you would have had this opportunity for a long time. As a group of governments, science can be increasingly involved in all legislative processes and taken into account, so that overall traffic safety is based on a broader, scientifically sound foundation. That is why I understand your complaint that this has not been the case so far. As I said, it would never be at the opposition. We have always seen that the expertise prevails that we are moving faster, which is what the implementation of our really ambitious transport safety targets is about. But we met with limited echo, limited understanding and limited ability to act. – This new law or new job gives us courage. However, I should like to point out a few points in this connection: Our traffic statistics, our accident statistics, are based on data provided by the interior resort. However, each time, the Transport Safety Board must purchase this data to the Interior and then have to process it legibly at its own expense. This involves a great deal of effort. North Vietnam or Vietnam is now being said because the countries are united, has a better legal basis of accident statistics than Austria. I think that this accident investigation centre has a lot to do, as it should definitely also be active in the cable car sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] Mr. Regler! We can then discuss in detail the improvement of accident statistics. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22588	Mr Wittauer is now speaking for two minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22609	Mr President. Mrs Moser is always making interesting comparisons, but the laughter has shown that these comparisons are very limpy. This legislation has been waiting for a long time, that is true. From my point of view, this matter of law could have been done already a three-quarters or more than half a year ago, but there was the problem that many different areas are covered by this law. len. There has also been a lot of lobbyism, as one of you knows. I am grateful for the fact that at the end of the day we have found a common solution. For me personally, it is important that the area of cable cars be regulated in this law. Many have resisted including this area in the law. I therefore think this is important because the accident in Tyrol has also shown that there is a need for action. There is, of course, more safety for the guest when something is examined by an independent body and when the necessary measures are taken from this result. Therefore, it is good that the cable cars as well as all other areas are now included in this law. It's a day of joy for me. Today, such a safety summit is almost completely unthinkable. We have decided on many measures that are good for the people in our country and also for the guests who stay with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22648	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Hlavac. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22670	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Many praises have already been expressed for the accident investigation law, which serves the implementation of an EU directive. The purpose of this law is to investigate accidents, to explain why an accident has happened, in the hope and in the expectation that this will prevent accidents in the future. This government template has initially provided for too far-reaching powers for the investigative body. We were concerned that parallel surveys were carried out by the investigating body on the one hand and the courts on the other, and we reject that. There were then, as has already been said, negotiations on this. The Authority is a non-respective investigation body and, therefore, a constitutional provision is required. The amendment, which was then adopted in committee, has also received our approval, as we believe that it is a good compromise. This also makes it clear that only the courts should deal with debt and liability issues and that the accident investigation body is only responsible for accident research and accident prevention. It has been shown that, when the government parties are willing to negotiate with the opposition, we are ready to compromise and are willing to bring us in, and that it is then possible to find a good solution in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22703	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Requested speaking time 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22724	Mr President. High house! This accident investigation law certainly strengthens the quality of the accident investigation and, in particular, accident prevention. However, I must mention a few figures to Mrs Moser, who spoke of the great accident frequency. In the cable car industry, we have had only three accidents with personal damage in the last eight years. The last accident in Sölden was not a cable car accident, but an accident with a helicopter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] I emphasize: Three accidents in eight years with five billion people transported! As I'm talking about an accident crowd, I seem to be a little overburdened. I believe that it is nevertheless important to examine these accidents thoroughly. In contrast to the railways – the European Directive was adopted for the railway sector, which had the objective of making cross-border rail transport safer – the cable cars and subways, which, however, never cross borders, were already examined, on the one hand, by experts and by the courts and on the other, also by national leaders who had no identity with the owners and operators of the railways in question, and appropriate arrangements were also made. I am sure that the countries concerned will provide the findings of the accident investigations in the past to the accident investigation authority and will therefore gather sufficient statistical material for the future. I am also sure that this will increase security further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22770	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22791	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! All parties agree that the present accident investigation law establishes a good investigation body for accident research and prevention. The opportunity for this government template, which originally had shortcomings, was undoubtedly the fact that the opposition intervened in a corrective manner. Perhaps it was also a little easier because now the economic chamber elections are over and at least at present client policy for the ÖVP is not in the foreground. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] In fact, it is already inconceivable how easily the right part of this House deals with the security of people. Once elections... [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's all very relative, Mr. Kaipel!]] From me the right part of this house. Once elections and then the friends stand before the safety of the people, that is already worrying. But anyway, your policy is known. The fact is that there is a success of the SPÖ that there is now also cable car safety in Austria. Further successes have also been possible with the help of the opposition and, above all, with the help of the trade unions' transport experts, which has already been pointed out. In total, it is now a good law that we can agree with. It is also a good law because the opposition and the social partners were also involved in the negotiations. If you want to make good laws in the future, you won't pass the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22838	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22861	Mr President. High house! Despite everything, I would like to hold here: Today's day – most of it is a good day for road safety, and I am glad to see that the laws that have been agreed by us today – is a good day for road safety. We have, as I believe, led a very constructive debate on the individual issues without making it easy for us to do so. We have also not made it easy on the question of light a day, because we have all seen that the experts have not yet come to a clear decision on this issue that there are still reservations that pedestrians and single-track vehicles might even be disadvantaged by it. But there are also advantages that are undoubtedly undisputed, for example, that in the winter half-year a traffic safety gain will certainly occur and also outside the village. That is why we have decided together – and I, too, who have been skeptical of this introduction for many years; I have never resolved that – in case of doubt on road safety, so for the introduction of “light on the day”. I think that was a real decision. It was also a right decision that we should not simply go to the agenda, but, as we agreed in the Committee, at a two-year evaluation phase, ensure what results this really brings. We'll see: Does it bring more benefits than disadvantages? And then a decision will be made again. Mr. Vice-Chancellor will be, he has clearly stated, while Austria's EU Presidency is also very committed to introducing the "daytime running light" during our EU Presidency. It will also make road safety a topic of the Austrian EU Presidency and will try to implement it accordingly. I think we agree that this would certainly be a great step forward and that we should all support this effort. In the end, we will also carry out a awareness campaign, namely that “light a day” is really done in good time, regularly and constantly, but that we do not want to punish already in the introduction phase. That means that there will be a few months of impunity to get used to it. I think that's useful and right. In this sense, I am convinced that the introduction of the “light on the day” will also contribute to a significant security gain. It is equally important, I believe, to set up an accident investigation centre that we are deciding today, because this will also create the EU-wide requirement for us to introduce in all areas, i.e. cable cars, shipping and also rail, the independent investigation body that is really necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! In rail transport, it was still common practice and also provided by law that the railway itself examines and analyzes its transport accidents, so to speak, and draws the necessary consequences from the results. This is explained by the long-standing monopoly in rail transport. Now that there is liberalisation, where there is harmonisation, where there is also competition in rail transport, it is, I believe, high time to set up an independent investigation body in this area. We'll do that. She'll be independent. It will be bound by wisdom. It will be occupied by our best experts. I am convinced that then there will also be objectivity in this area and that we will also achieve an additional security gain. In this sense, I really think I can say that we are today deciding on a good transport safety package that will bring us closer to the goal of halving the number of accidents, especially the number of fatal accidents in Austrian transport by 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22916	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Ahleitner. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22938	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Accident Investigation Act is another milestone within the framework of the Transport Safety Programme of the Minister for Transport Gorbach. I welcome the fact that, while long negotiations have taken place, but still in line with all the parties to the decision, an accident investigation body is being set up, an organisation in BMVIT, which will deal primarily with accident research and accident prevention. The investigation of accidents should not be carried out in such a way as to look for culpability, to make other bodies, but to investigate backgrounds, to identify improvements and to make recommendations for security measures in the final effect. Ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly another step towards increasing road safety in Austria. We must certainly take even more measures to ensure road safety, but they must also be useful. We reject the proposal to establish a legally binding limit for the handling of roads. We do so, Mr Eder, not because we do not consider the subject to be important, but because BMVIT is already dealing with this subject very carefully. The fact is that in the case of existing road covers, continuous measurements are carried out that there are limit values which are in the international equation and are re-set according to the state of the art. The new routes have a binding limit, a minimum limit for the grip, especially in the case of take-off and warranty. Ladies and gentlemen! The measures for road safety must continue to be the top priority in the future, and the Black-Orange Government under Vice-Cancellor Gorbach as Minister of Transport is a guarantee that the consistent path of transport safety policy will continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22972	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. Desirable time: up to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e22994	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! This accident investigation law takes into account the need for protection and safety of all citizens in all situations of life, whether work or leisure. Every day life simply shows us that accidents are happening, and of course these accidents also need to be carefully analyzed. I can remember the train accident in Pinzgau. Unfortunately, several cable car accidents have happened in the past. The issue is that we must take all measures to ensure that citizens are protected by preventive measures. The establishment of an accident investigation body at BMVIT will help to ensure that the responsibilities are clearly regulated, that the cause research is optimised and that the resulting conclusions are drawn and the recommendations are also implemented. It is a question of drawing up safety recommendations as measures to improve road safety. It is about creating safety programmes for all modes of transport, that they are evaluated and constantly being developed. It is implemented by the present accident investigation law of an EU directive, which allows for the independent accident investigation in the area of rail, as the Secretary of State has already said. We will thus contribute to increasing road safety by also introducing preventive measures. Every accident is an accident too much. Finally, I would like to thank you and say: It was a very long transport committee, but the careful chairmanship of Mr Eder has helped to ensure that we can adopt a reasonable and forward-looking programme today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23036	Mr Rädler is now speaking to us for two minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23057	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! On the previous statements by Mr Kaipel and on the call by Mr Kräube, who said that this Federal Government is not a guarantee of safety in the transport sector, I should like to say one thing: Even if the SPÖ's motion for a resolution on crisis prevention, which has been put in place here today, states that security research will continue to be neglected by the ÖVP BZÖ Government and concrete projects will not be speedily progressed forward, the joint decision will now show how quickly this proves to be ineffective. At this point, I should like to express my thanks to Mr Gahr, Mr Eder, to the chairman of the Committee on Transport, that he has contributed to the fact that we are able to adopt this accident investigation law together today. The discussion in the Transport Committee had a great deal of consensus. There were several breaks in the session, and we were trying to find a solution here that meets the good reputation of Austria as a tourist country. More than 70,000 businesses and 150,000 employees are very closely connected with the safety standards we create in Austria for those people who come to us to find recovery. I am proud of that, and I welcome this unanimous procedure. The countries have also given their consent, although this has been difficult for us in Lower Austria. The consensus of all parties ultimately has to do so. contributed to the fact that we can have an increased safety standard in this area too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23097	The last speaker was: Mr Böhm. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23118	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! A serious helicopter accident cost nine people in September in the glacier area of Sölden, of which six children, lives. Even Pope Benedict responded with dismay to the XVI. to the disaster in the Tyrolean Ötztal. In a letter to the survivors of the cable car accident, the head of the Catholic Church assured the members his participation. – Our participation is also safe for them. Our prayers apply to them. The search for the culprits of the biggest gondola accident in Austria is difficult. In my opinion, the disaster at the Rettenbach was also a chain of unfortunate circumstances. Neither technical failure nor human failure shall be excluded. The investigation was carried out by a court commission. The Austro Control, experts and prosecutors examined the accident precisely. In order to avoid conflicts of interest, in order to avoid a development into the preliminaries of the incident under investigation, I think it is right to set up an accident investigation centre of the federal government on the basis of the Community legal requirement as an independent body. This draft law aims to improve road safety. It is ensured that accidents and disturbances are carefully examined by the particular body in order to prevent repetitions, with the greatest importance of accident research and prevention. In order to improve road safety, international exchange of information and data on the basis of jointly recognised directives is essential, requiring a central point of contact in each EU Member State. I would like to thank the State Secretary for this opportunity and ask for a single vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23158	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which establishes the accident investigation body of the federal government and amends the aviation law, the railway law, the shipping law and the motor vehicle law, together with the title and receipt in 1108 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. – This is also unanimously adopted at third reading, therefore with the necessary constitutional majority. We are now voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 1109 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1110 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – The consent will be given by a majority. [[20:43:01]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 634/A (E) by Mr Mag. Christine Muttonen, colleagues on UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Cultural Diversity (1076, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23244	Now we get to the 22nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Wolfmayr spoke. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23271	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the Committee on Culture of the Austrian National Council on the UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity, which took place at 33. General Conference At the beginning of October – represented by State Secretary Franz Morakwird Austria – it is intended to be decided in Paris, one opinion. The approval of an overwhelming majority of 191 Member States is already apparent, only America has announced its own presentation, because the US sees culture as a service like others, so unless the competence is settled at the WTO – an attitude that we do not share. What Austria wants to achieve together with the European allies is recognition of the provisions on cultural self-determination contained in the human rights declaration, personal freedom of choice of artistic and cultural forms and the right to access and participate in culture for all. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already addressed it in the extensive discussions on book pricing: Cultural goods as well as cultural services have a double character. They are on the one hand merchandise and on the other hand cultural goods, they are carriers of identity and expression of values and orientations. It is therefore very important to anchor the right of all states to independent cultural policies across the EU and to define national promotion and the protection of cultural diversity by law. A prerequisite for this is, of course, to ensure sustainable regional and local markets. I should like to mention briefly here that the head of state Waltraud Klasnic has proved this to us in Styria for decades and, as a convinced European, Steirer tells us that the relationship with the immediate neighbours is very, very important and Europe becomes so accessible to the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other points in the Convention, but for reasons of time I will leave it to those who speak after it to present these points; we are here, thanks to God, “on the way.” The two-thirds majority at the General Conference seems to be safe, as I said, and we can see this as an important success in a common approach at European level. The comprehensive and balanced cultural exchange between all countries of the world is of course still future music, but Austria plays an increasingly important role in this concert.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23322	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23344	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In May of this year we tabled a motion for a resolution from the SPÖ on the protection of cultural diversity, which we are debating today. I am very pleased that last week in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection, all political groups voted in favour of this request. This is the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Cultural Diversity, which is currently under negotiation. The topic of cultural diversity is like a red thread through the work of UNESCO. Article I of the 1945 UNESCO Constitution contains the preservation and promotion of cultural diversity as the purpose and task of UNESCO. The 1994 Globalisation debate, liberalisation pressure and the conclusion of the 1994 GATT agreement have strengthened UNESCO's efforts to take measures to protect and promote cultural diversity at global level. In 2001, a general declaration on cultural diversity was adopted, and in 2003, UNESCO decided to draw up a Convention, which will now be adopted in October this year. The main questions of the Convention are the extent to which and the instruments through which art and culture can be protected from liberalisation agreements in the WTO negotiations and to what extent art and culture should and must be promoted by a Member State's independent cultural policy at national, regional and local level. The purpose of this Convention is to create a legally binding international basis allowing Member States to have an independent cultural policy without conflict with international trade agreements, because, ladies and gentlemen, cultural goods and cultural services must not simply be assessed according to market criteria, but must be recognised and guaranteed. This is particularly important, as has already been said, in view of globalisation and the increased pressure on liberalisation. Article 1 of UNESCO’s ‘General Declaration on Cultural Diversity’ of November 2001 calls cultural diversity ‘source of exchange, renewal and creativity’. And it is, it goes on to say, “cultural diversity for mankind as important as biodiversity for nature. From This View Is it the common heritage of humanity and should be recognised and reaffirmed for the benefit of current and future generations.” – This, ladies and gentlemen, should we remember again and again when it comes to this debate! [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It must therefore be permissible for States to define their own cultural policy and to implement it through appropriate arrangements and support measures. It must be permitted to create framework conditions for artistic work, and it must be permitted, for example, that national promotion of local music or film productions is still possible. It is therefore a question of ensuring sufficient cultural scope for each Member State for public or public-funded cultural institutions. Since there were hardly any initiatives on the part of the Federal Government to discuss all these issues publicly, and the National Council and we in Parliament were not really informed, we have tabled this request to give a sign on the part of Parliament as well. We have formulated demands to maintain cultural scope at national and regional level. We have called on the Federal Government to actively participate in the preparation of this UNESCO Agreement and to ensure that it comes to a timely conclusion. We would like the Federal Government to step up its efforts in the context of the EU and also at bilateral level and to do political persuasion where it is still necessary to achieve rapid ratification. And we expect the increased use of the Federal Government in future WTO and GATS negotiations, because only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, can the diversity of our cultural landscape continue to exist. I am pleased that Parliament has received such a strong and clear signal when we decide on this motion for a resolution today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23402	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé will speak next. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23423	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to take advantage of my wishful speaking time, I promise you now, because we're all a little tired today. I would just like to say a few words about this agreement. Of course, the person who is perhaps only superficially concerned with UNESCO's concerns will say: Cultural diversity, no, why not? Is this at all at risk, is there any danger that there will be no more cultural individuality in the individual Member States? – Indeed, there is a danger that this cultural diversity is at risk. If you look at the brochure published by UNESCO in cooperation with the Federal Chancellery, you can read in it a lot of what is really worrying, for example: [[the speaker holds the brochure “Culture for Sale?”]] New Zealand has introduced all audiovisual services into the GATS and therefore no longer has the possibility of restricting access, but all WTO members now have full market access with regard to these services. This leads, for example, to the New Zealand no longer has any New Zealand broadcasts at all, but only international ones. So the national culture is extremely at risk! The USA is those who consider cultural services to be pure services without considering the immaterial value. They flooded with their culture, with their economic thinking all markets, such as Canada. However, Canada has introduced quotas in order to avoid the influence in some way. We therefore very much welcomed this UNESCO initiative in Austria and hope that all members will join. The USA has left UNESCO, but now it is re-entering, but it has enormous reservations against this Convention. We are in favour of this because this Convention creates a balance between protectionism and liberalism, which prevails with increasing globalisation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23472	Mr Zinggl spoke next. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23493	I won't need that much. Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mrs. Minister! This is indeed an instrument of hope: UNESCO protects the culture from GATS. For a long time, the UN has made rather non-binding statements, such as a universal declaration on the protection of cultural diversity. – But that was rather a title, a “word for Sunday”, and so the Americans and the global cultural industry are sealed with this word “cultural diversity”, so it has not been useful at all! However, since the GATS provisions have threatened, many international cultural institutions have joined forces and together have moved UNESCO to do something about it. It simply can't be that cultural goods and services are treated like any soup can and the trade with soup cans! This would mean that, although state support for culture would fall away because the private people are supposed not to fall home from this state support and would therefore be disadvantaged in support and competition, overall it would then again be so that the powerful would have become even more powerful in the global contest. – This UNESCO Convention will now, as an equal instrument in relation to the GATS Agreement, propose to the one bar. But the Convention does not only support national interests – otherwise we would have 191 national cultures in the future instead of less global cultures – but actually the diversity as a whole, which means that it also supports all possible characteristics that are not necessarily linked to trade in culture. The States are therefore called upon to take part in this Convention, not only by ratifying it, but also by supporting cultural diversity more widely in their own countries than before. In this sense, I appeal to you, Mrs Minister, and to the Secretary of State, to do more of this. This would mean that one has more minority cultures, more youth cultures, so that these 1,000 flowers make up cultural diversity. And for example, it is not at all to be seen, that the free radios are not supported by the state! This would contribute to a cultural diversity, as we all wish. It is also clear that culture is only one area from which the state must not withdraw in order to be rescinded to the commercial interests of supply and demand. Health, education and social services must also follow at international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23538	Mrs Gehrer spoke next. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23560	Madam President. High house! UNESCO has acquired a very good reputation for the protection of the World Heritage Site for many years. Eight areas – landscapes, buildings, cities – have also been protected in Austria. These include the city centre of Vienna, the old town of Graz, the old town of Salzburg, the Semmering, the Neusiedler See, the Wachau, the Hallstatt-Dachstein/Salzkammergut region, and Schönbrunn Castle and Park. In further discussion, UNESCO has now set the goal of protecting cultural diversity, especially the intangible cultural heritage. This immaterial cultural heritage includes the language, the language, the songs, the music of a country, the cultural diversity of a country. I already have on the occasion of the 32nd. The General Conference of UNESCO in Paris in 2003 supported the development of this Convention and the under-protection of the cultural diversity of Austria. We have worked very, very intensively to develop this UNESCO Convention. We have already set up a post in Austria at the UNESCO Commission, which deals with the cultural heritage in the field of immaterial. And we already have our own working group to protect our songs, our language, the diverse expressions of Austrian culture in particular. The Convention, which we decide to support today, has three important objectives: Each State has the sovereign right to define its own cultural policy and can define and implement appropriate rules and support measures. This involves the upgrading of cultural policy. Art and culture are not merchandise and are not subordinated to the rules of trade policy. This also includes strengthening international cooperation and solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government sees this UNESCO declaration as the great success of the joint action at European level. Our efforts have also been reflected in this Convention, which will be approved by you today. The draft Convention supports the position represented by Austria and the European Union, and this motion for a resolution will provide further support for this important protection of cultural heritage, cultural diversity and immaterial cultural heritage. I would like to thank all those who support this Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23615	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23636	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The institutions, the beautiful monuments, the landscapes of Austria, which were declared a World Heritage Site, have already been mentioned. As a Lower Austrian, I am proud that Semmering and the Wachau are also part of this, so I can only say yes to this Convention. If 130 nations are determined to make a contribution with this Convention to ensure the diversity of cultural activities in the long term and the independence of state support is necessary, but ultimately also helps to support our countries, our regions in cultural policy matters themselves, this speaks for the Convention. I might say that we in Lower Austria, especially with our many institutions, from the village renewal to those social events taking place in the cultural area, have contributed a lot and are also dependent on the fact that we can align cultural policy by region, according to the interests of the countries. Finally, I can say that I am very proud of the diversity of culture. In connection with the discussion about the German anthem, I may say that I am very proud that I was able to hold this speech both in my mother's and in my father's language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23673	The next item is Mrs Hlavac's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23694	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying that all of us here believe that the UNESCO Convention should be decided that we should be in favour of a positive conclusion that the Convention should be concluded, above all in the form of the Convention, as it is now. That is to say, without watering up, so that it will really be a protection of cultural diversity, so that it will really be a promotion instrument at a time when there is an extreme liberalisation in which individual countries are trying to also subject cultural goods to the market mechanism and the GATS negotiations. That is why I am very glad that we agree here. I am also very glad that the European Union plays a positive role in the European Union's ability to agree on a position and thus counteract the pressure to which some States are exposed, since the US is not known to be prepared to adopt this agreement. I think it is very important for a small country to be able to promote cultural diversity, not only national culture, but also regional culture, to promote diversity, to promote small languages as well; we did on 26 March. September celebrated the Day of Languages. It is important that not only the American cultural industry, with its great supremacy and also with its linguistic supremacy, can determine cultural development, but that it can specifically promote individual national and regional cultural achievements and achievements. That is why I am pleased that we are taking this resolution together. I hope that the negotiations will actually be concluded positively very soon and that this agreement will soon come into force on the basis of a rapid ratification.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23730	The next item is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23752	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the request concerning the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Variety of Cultural Expressions in particular – as an Austrian and European woman, who gets to feel this cultural offer firmly in her life through many events and who likes to see this European and Austrian identity presented. I was part of it decades ago. With its productions in Europe, but also in the USA and in North Africa, Vienna's ice operetta and Austrian music have been announced. We were a very successful challenge to the US show "Holiday on Ice". Later I moderated in the ORF cultural and entertainment programs, which focused on both well-known and less well-known artists and their works. We were all very amazed at the offer of this musical, playful and folklore art, which came from the Balkan countries, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic. It is therefore nice to see that this UNESCO Convention places great emphasis on the fact that this potential can continue to develop. Today, through the ASTRA satellite station, the public-law ORF with its cultural mandate offers the ORF 2 Europe programme as a platform for this form. He shows programs that convey the Austrian identity via the 3sat, arte and BR-alpha transmitters. Science and culture programs are copied with BBC. NHK, the Japanese station, was one of the co-producers of the highly respected “La Traviata” live transmission, where the focus was not only on Netrebko and Villa’on, but also on Salzburg’s festival town. Not so much medially illuminated, but for a year and a half in good co-production with the private station “Radio DVA-AGORA” a radio programme in Slovenian has been broadcast in Carinthia for eight hours every day. There will be no cultural monoculture in Austria, the regional and local art initiative launched by State Secretary Morak in 2003 and brought it to a 15 percent increase in the budget for this interdisciplinary event. These festivals become more and more interesting from year to year, and so it should continue. We have been working for this Convention in good cooperation with the EU partners, and this has been for years, and it is very nice that it is now being confirmed and confirmed here in the Parliament in consensus with a four-party decision. I would also like to thank my colleagues for this ambitious cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23801	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23822	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too am very glad that we will today adopt the resolution on the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Cultural Diversity unanimously. I am also very pleased that our cultural speaker Christine Muttonen has tabled this motion for a resolution so that we can and must speak about it in the House today. Thank you, Christine. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Especially with regard to the general agreement on trade in services, the so-called GATS, within the WTO, this Unesco Convention is gaining in great importance, which has already been addressed by my previous speakers. The consequences of this GATS agreement are, in fact, fatal: The GATS simply understands the cultural services as a mere commodity, and it wants to give them up completely to the laws of the free market. The GATS makes no difference between cultural and other services and thus ignores the aesthetic and also the identity-building character of culture. I think that this increased liberalisation, as it aims at GATS, would have, as already mentioned, fatal consequences for cultural life in Austria and also for cultural diversity in Europe. Cultural standards are under threat and cultural diversity could also be threatened. I think that regional and local cultural promotions could also be made difficult or perhaps even impossible, and this in turn would have an impact on many cultural initiatives, on many associations, even on events and also on the media. That is why I particularly welcome the fact that the Unesco Convention advocates both the right for all states to pursue an independent cultural policy and, at the same time, for States to commit themselves to supporting and promoting cultural diversity within the country. I would like to add my full support to the comments made by Mr Zinggl. I believe that this is a very important point so that even small cultural initiatives in Austria can be promoted in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to make another request: I would very much like to see a national closure in other areas, outside culture, in the so-called "consistency provision", if education, education or water supply were successful, so that we could jointly fight against the GATS negotiations and the WTO's efforts and offer these goods to our people in their high quality in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23878	The next speaker was Mr Pack. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23899	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Maybe at the beginning another opinion: I think the culture is subject to two forces: on the one hand, globalisation and on the other hand the mass media. I think that we have this influence of globalisation and the mass media can also win off positive things, because in the final effect it offers the possibility that we can spread culture to a much larger audience. It's quite clear – and that's what my previous speakers have clearly put to the point: Of course, the danger of the cultural industry of so-called powerful countries must not be ignored! The goal, long-term objective, of course, must be that there should be an equal development between culture and commerce, because in the final effect – Andrea Wolfmayr said it right – cultural performance is a good like any other, but of course it transports certain values, and every society is obliged to maintain these values for itself. In this sense, I think, the consensus we have here is a sign that we give culture a correspondingly high priority that every nation has the right to its own cultural policy. I also think that this draft will open up new opportunities for a national and regional cultural policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23935	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e23957	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, I also welcome the unity that exists here today in the House regarding the Unesco Convention on the Protection of Cultural Diversity, but we should not ignore entirely the history of origin and history for joy over today's harmonious approach. It is due to the constructive toughness of our cultural speaker Christa Muttonen that this request has been made. It was also not true that there was a great deal of joy immediately and the willingness to discuss it passed. It took a long time. There has not been a debate in the Committee on Culture. But what lasts for a long time is finally going to be good: We shall vote in favour of this motion by the votes of all the political groups. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Could be re-enforced, you can say!]] Thank you for this important note, Mr Jarolim. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That was the second dumbest call of the day!]] Of course, it is important that we all today stand to create binding foundations to continue to make independent cultural policy, and that there is consensus that cultural goods should not simply be subject to market mechanisms. It has already been pointed out, but I believe that it is an important point as a result of this decision, which cannot be mentioned often enough in the debate, that not only does it have the right to protect and preserve cultural diversity, but we also have an obligation to do so. This is often lacking as an ambition in the current Austrian cultural policy, which we would want far more than confession and actual guideline. Finally, I would also like to point out in connection with the GATS agreement that it is important to have reached agreement on cultural goods, but that there must also be a four-party consensus on other important areas of life, for example – for example, because Mrs. Gehrer is now sitting on the government bank – the indication that education must not be simply a good like any other.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24007	The next item is the speech by Mr Kainz. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24029	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Kuntzl! I believe that the time for voting and decision-making is crucial, and since the UNESCO World Conference is only taking place in early October, the time is exactly right today. It would make little sense if we had adopted the agreement three months ago or a half a year ago, ultimately it is important that at the Unesco Conference, equipped with this mandate, we should also take this decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is country number 1 in the world. We are proud of our cultural goods, our cultural creators and our cultural priorities. But culture is not only important to us as a tourist and tourist and cultural country, but it is especially important for us because culture is identity-building for the population. We are living today at a time when, fortunately, the borders are falling closer together, but we are living in a Europe of the regions. We joined the GATS in 1994, and it is therefore important that the regions in Europe also pursue independent cultural policies. I welcome this Convention, I am pleased that we have reached a four-party consensus and I am pleased that we will vote unanimously here in the House today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24065	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24086	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The draft Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions will take place on the occasion of the 33rd session. Unesco General Conference in Paris in October 2005 with a two-thirds majority required for this purpose will be adopted by the Unesco Member States and a majority will be appointed. The EU, by the way, very well coordinated, has brought in many ideas and proposals, such as the principle of media pluralism. Austrian positions have also been developed on a broad basis at national level. For example, the importance of public broadcasting and the role of civil society is explicitly stressed. Cultural diversity and development cooperation are also addressed. The Convention is also appropriate to give new legitimacy to cultural policy and public promotion of culture over threatening competitive constraints. Cultural policy must remain in the hands of the respective governments, but not with the objective of decommissioning and exclusion, but with the aim of cultural exchange and intercultural cooperation. It is intended to ensure that art and culture are not commercial goods in the future. The current draft convention reflects the positions supported by Austria and the EU and is also in line with the demands contained in the present resolution. I welcome the approval of all the political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24129	The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24150	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that all the political groups here in Parliament in the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Variety of Cultural Content and Artistic Expressions Unit shows – as everyone knows, this does not happen so often in this House. Culture and cultural goods and their preservation are of great concern to us by the government parties. I would particularly like to stress the achievements of Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer, who expressed his support and commitment to the preparation of such a convention in 2003. Austria has always tried to promote culture in every form. This Convention will ensure that cultural scope is maintained in the future, particularly by public and public bodies. An important factor in protecting culture In my opinion, diversity represents the diversity of the media in Austria. The main focus is on public service broadcasting organisations whose mission is to provide citizens with access to high-quality content and information. This cultural diversity is expressed everywhere in our country, even in the individual regions – that is what makes Austria so interesting! Not only the Austrian citizens are beneficiaries of this, but in particular also the tourism industry, which has a significant role to play in Austria, in the economy as a whole and, of course, in the creation of jobs. Of course, tourism benefits from our beautiful landscape, but especially our culture and cultural goods attract many tourists to our country. The Austrian history, our popular composers, poets, artists as well as the outstanding musicians and orchestras make us famous, popular and unique all over the world. This UNESCO Convention ensures that we can continue this path, which is so important for Austria, to promote cultural diversity in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24196	The next item is Mrs Fleckl's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24218	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am very pleased that the present request made by my colleague, Mr Muttonen, to the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Cultural Diversity is being made by all four parties today. Christine Muttonen, cultural spokesperson of the SPÖ, thanks to the fact that this motion for a resolution has been made here today and is being discussed here in the House today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cainz]] [[Accompaniment with SPÖ, as well as acclaim and bravorage of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Especially for a small country like Austria, it is very important to have a say in the decision-making process, because the freedom of art is essential for every state. And the Convention is intended to ensure that the scope of the Signatory States for protecting cultural diversity is preserved in the future. This development has become necessary in response to the diverse effects of globalisation that we face today. Globalisation not only affects international financial and capital markets or research and development, globalisation is also increasingly involved in personal lifestyles and culture – a circumstance that should be quite worrying to us. This development has been against resistance for a long time – and that is right! It repeatedly stresses the need to protect the diversity of cultures. The protection of this diversity is therefore also considered a task for all mankind, and the demand for solidarity with endangered cultures is a consequence. In this way, it is not a coincidence that essential preparatory work on this Convention came about at the time when GATS entered into force. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can also break a good topic!]] The debate on cultural diversity is a constant issue of the European Union, and that is a good thing. The importance of culture for the European integration process cannot be estimated to be high enough. Of course, there should not be a single European culture, but: What values will play a central role in a common European identity in the future? – With all diversity and diversity, which also make up Europe’s wealth. Ladies and gentlemen! As already mentioned, the next UNESCO General Conference will take place in Paris in October. It is in all our interest to hope that a cultural milestone will be set there with the signing of the Convention on the Protection of Cultural Diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24266	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1076 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 137.) [[21:26:31]] 23. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (994 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing an Association Responsibility Act amending the Media Act, the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, the Patent Act, the Trademark Protection Act 1970, the Semiconductor Protection Act, the Model Protection Act 1990 and the Model Model Law (1077, b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24313	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There has been no oral reporting, so I will immediately open the debate. First of all, Mr Dr. Jarolim. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24346	I feel very challenged, Mr Neudeck, is also very happy about your presence and therefore welcome you very much. Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we would have liked to have adopted an Association Responsibility Act under this title – the working title was “The Criminal Treatment of Legal Persons”. The whole thing is not new, as we – and this is the first that is remarkable – have actually been since 30. June 2002 – Mr President, you know, I think, that you have had a framework decision to implement, but we have not yet implemented it. It is already “admirable” that for three years it has been necessary to bring a decisive law here to the High House. When I consider, Mr Wurm, what Mr Böhmdorfer has announced at the time – how efficient and how good it is – after he noticed that we already have a considerable need for recovery here, and see what has finally come out here – and I have taken away from the discussion in committee, Mrs Minister, that you, I believe, would have wanted more than what is decided here today – I can only say: It is not a risk that a law of irresponsibility is spoken of in professional circles, not by an association of responsibility, but by an irresponsibility protection law, since the actual protection intensification of this law cannot be achieved. What is this law about? – It is ultimately a question of those criminal offences which, when committed, must punish individuals with a penalty, including against associations, societies, and especially large societies. Banks – if they are committed by them, they are punished. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, it's also about the little clubs!]] It is not a matter of helping anyone that, when a company does something and has to do with it, it may be punishable to a managing director or someone else, but the company that has actually received the profit, the profit from this act, cannot be paid, can't be exhausted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The consequence was that they said: If there is such a criminal act of society to be attributed to society, then society must also pay for it. The question was therefore the characteristic, it was asked: What's important? – Sales! This turnover was negotiated by the industrial association, by the industry, by the economy, and one has agreed on the profit. It has been said that the profit, as we all know, is a size which, of course, is very stretchable and very manageable, of course much less than turnover, no question. The last thing that happened was that you said: Well, the profit doesn't actually have to be taken in full, but there must be an amount of the penalty – 10 000 €. If I now have a billion-dollar company that I threaten with a maximum penalty of €10,000, then we all know that this is not really a threat. That is why what you really wanted to have with this law has not been achieved. The fact that it is still not excluded that the penalties are deducted from the tax is another defect that we would have expected to be corrected. In the end it is true that only this punishment, namely the fine, can be imposed, but there can be no attitude of the company, of the company, even in particularly rare cases, which is to be regretted and also shows that one has looked at the aggressors here, as far as possible, not to provide any real effective protection. So, unfortunately, we have let God pass by this opportunity, Mrs. Minister. We would have liked to agree, but we cannot agree to this cosmetics because it does not meet the real objective. We will therefore reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24389	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24410	Madam President. Dear ministers! This law, which has come into the house as a government template, has excellent explanatory remarks – I thank the Justice Department – in which the lawmaking, the backgrounds and what the legislator's will is in this law are really well described. In my speech, therefore, I confine myself to the wrong things that Mr Jarolim has just said. [[Abg. Neudeck: But you don't have that much speaking time!]] First of all: The highest penalty is not € 10,000, but it is the cover of the day set. In total, a maximum penalty of €1.8 million can be imposed. In comparison: In Germany, the maximum penalty is € 1 million. It is also wrong that it concerns only the large corporations. On the contrary, it is meant by every legal person, so also the small hairdresser GesmbH or all the associations we have in Austria. Therefore, Mr Jarolim: It is not worthy of a judge to inform here in such a false way!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24451	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24483	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I am glad that we are talking about the Federation Responsibility Act – it sounds a bit bulky, in the future I will talk about corporate criminal law; it is easier, and you understand it better – today we decide that we will also implement the EU Framework Decision now, so to speak. That's good and important! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who decides? – You don’t decide!]] – They decide, so it is decided here today in the house. And I don't want to deny, Mrs. Fekter, that what we've got here is better than if we had nothing. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Then you agree!]] Let me do this, please. Let me say the good things! It would not be bad to hear that from the opposition. What we acknowledge is that it is for the first time possible for consumers to take legal action against associations or companies without the personal debtor being identified before. This is particularly important for future claims against companies. I would like to point out that, on the basis of this legal situation, Kaprun's judgment might have stated otherwise, the basis would be at least another one. It would have been possible to refer to another law. The second very important area of application for me in this law is that it also includes the field of medical art errors. In the future, not only the treating physician can be held responsible, but also the hospital holder. That too is progress in my eyes. The third important application concerns the construction sector, which is to be welcomed, because it is hoped that the form of social fraud that often occurs in this sector will be reduced somewhat. However, I would like to stress that, for this reason, the other outstanding legislative projects, such as decisions against black entrepreneurship, which are often demanded by the trade unions and also by us here, are not obsolete. I was surprised by the really rather destructive opinion of the Austrian Bar Association, which says: “The draft would bring about a profound change in the dogmatic basic structures of the Austrian (Straf) legal system without any reason and would disrupt the balance of the existing differentiated Austrian law on sanctions and prevention without contributing to the further development/improvement of this legal system.” Thus the opinion of the Austrian Bar Association. [[Abg. Neudeck: What does that mean? – That’s positive!]] I believe that the Bar is wrong, and I also believe that some circles in the economy are wrong if they have in principle acted or acted against an association responsibility law, in fact, have rejected it partly in Bausch and Bogen and have also lobbyed against it. [[Abg. Neudeck: Can you explain the sentence in brief? I didn't understand him – neither did you!]] That too must be said. Mrs Fekter, I now come to the points why we cannot accept this proposal. It has already been said by Dr. Jarolim that the fine is limited with a daily rate of € 10 000. - That's one. This was not included in the original government template. The fact that this limit is now fixed is in our eyes a drops of wormwood. That's how we see it. Another drops of advertising in my eyes – and you should be interested in the FPÖ – is that the protection of victims was not taken as seriously as we would have liked. It is true that the fines, which do not benefit the victims in a purposeful manner, are most likely to flow into the budget and fatten the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: compensation is punishment!]] It would have been nice if the victims had benefited, in whatever form. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] – Nevertheless, one could create a fund to keep the victims unharmed. In principle, Mrs Minister, I would like to say to you: We are glad that the first step has been taken. It's planned for an evaluation. After four years, it will be re-examined. In this respect, we hope that some improvement can still be made in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24585	The next speaker was Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24607	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If I let the revue happen very briefly now, what Mrs Worm has said in most of her speech, then I must say, it is all the more incomprehensible to me that social democracy, for whatever reason, is more opposed to this law, with a certain unrest within the SPÖ club. [[Abg. Neudeck: That was hard enough for her!]] If I were to consider the positives and the negatives in Mr Wurm's speech, I would have said that the positives outweighed. But be it as it may be. With this law, we are also entering into a new country in Austria, which has been imposed on us by international agreements and also international obligations, but also by pressure. The Federal Minister has already said in the Committee that it was, of course, a compromise, particularly with regard to the cover of sanctions, but I would like to say from our assessment that, on the basis of the assessment envisaged, there could be changes in four years, concerns should really become reality that it is too little for companies and that they are buying it. But in principle the sense of the whole should be a preventive measure, a repression for companies, the possibility that a company can be criminally condemned, something should not have been quite right. If one lets the Kaprun process pass a little revue, it should be noted that there were managing directors, deputy managing directors as the scapegoats before the justice. However, on the basis of the legal situation at that time, there was no possibility of the companies and the companies, which, despite everything, were at least co-responsible, if not chiefly responsible, to have criminal interests. With this new law there is now this possibility. That is why, from our point of view, it is an essential improvement, even with regard to the people concerned, who, as the injured person, have the opportunity to make claims for damages on the civil law path, while the reputation of the companies remains unharmed. That's the central point. A criminal conviction is also classified in the international market, even as regards the reputation of a company, as different from a civil conviction, where one may even agree out of court and flow sums under the table because there is no present condemnation before a criminal judge. From this point of view, I believe that this law has succeeded. I know that we cannot do away with Mr Jarolim's fears now, but he can speak again in the context of the evaluation and then perhaps make proposals for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24641	Next, Mrs. Mag. Gastinger to speak. – Mrs Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24663	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think we should be aware that this is a historic hour for justice today. We have a completely new legal system in the field of justice when the High National Council of this Association Responsibility Act will decide, because that is something that is now in place for the first time in this Republic, namely the criminal responsibility of legal persons. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as those of the Greens.]] As Mr Fauland has already correctly said, this is a lot more about general prevention, and we expect a lot of it from the Ministry of Justice, not a lot of cases that will be criminally dependent, but a lot of things that will improve in the field of businesses. With regard to the comments made, in particular by Dr. Jarolim, I would like to mention that tomorrow an economic newspaper will be publishing an article that I have printed out of the Internet. It expressly states: Whoever the consumer protection is at heart – it is my heart; that is, the consumer, the workers' chamber, me and also my predecessor – will praise this law. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You can delete this article!]] That's right, but this article says that this is certainly a law, which, of course, is also adopted by the economy accordingly. In this context, it is also important that we in Austria have decided that we now also use the entire criminal law catalogue for the criminal responsibility of legal persons. I believe that this was a very good, an important and also a real step. I also expect a great deal from the evaluation, and I think it is very useful that there is going to be a resolution by the National Council here, because I believe that we will have to adapt to this new system in future. I mean, this is really a historic hour today. At least for us from the field of justice, I can see that in all cases. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24705	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24742	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Some words are not quite clear to me. [[Abg. Neudeck: Especially your own!]] I believe that the law here is quite a law that is extremely necessary in itself, but unfortunately, one has returned half way. [[Abg. Neudeck: Especially you, you do not agree! You've returned half way!]] I do not understand why it has succeeded again in making a kneefall in front of the industry, which would really not have been necessary, because the limit of the day rate to € 10,000 is a preference that should actually be deterrent. Some of these fines can be paid from the post office. I do not understand how the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises here on the ÖVP side can agree with it at all, but they do bear the full weight of a system of sanctions involving turnover or profits. It is different for industry, which is really to be deterred, because, when it comes to crime and damage, there are really serious damage to be expected. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: compensation is independent of this!]] How much more can happen when operating refineries, power plants or other things than when operating a hotel! That's where you lock off? – This is exactly the wrong idea in terms of general prevention, Mrs. Federal Minister! That's the opposite of general prevention because I'm dealing with an advantage that can really cause damage. That's the wrong approach. This is basically wrong and a kneefall in front of the industry, which significantly disadvantages the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular in their ranks. I'm surprised you can agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I really wonder why one prefers industry in these cases, which are really the cause of damage number one, and finally there is a lock-off here. Completely incomprehensible! Second story: It is even more incomprehensible that one has not introduced a catalogue of sanctions, that one has been determined solely on a fine, rather than that one can also pronounce bans on businesses. An example: If one operates a garbage dump in the Mitterendorfer Senke, there contaminates an entire landscape ecologically and causes huge damage, the damage compensation is notified to the company. At the same time, the operator is setting up a new company and continues to do the same. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong approach! It would also be necessary to have an operating ban to prevent further injury. It's quite simply a law that's standing half way and that's why it's bad. That is why we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24811	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24832	Ladies and gentlemen! It has not happened so often in recent years – it has already happened, but not in the judicial sector – that the Greens do not agree with the SPÖ. I would like to point out here for the Greens – and perhaps the SPÖlers do not have such a long-term memory – that the responsibility of legal persons, as we mentioned earlier, is a concern that has persecuted the opposition for many years. In contrast to the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, I am glad that on the day after the second instance of acknowledgment in Kaprun, this is a co-consistency that we are negotiating today, this association responsibility law will now be in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Not in the expression!]] Mr Jarolim! I still have quite good eyes on the discussion process, in the ears and in the head it has been about this regulation. Today – and I do not say that now in the defense of the Federal Minister – we could have nothing to do with it, because it was long before her time – we could also have systems as other countries know her, where all this is dealt with in administrative criminal law. Austria has also decided, under the pressure of the opposition, to design the sanctions instruments in the present form. And I am glad that we came to this government proposal in the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: EU law!]] – EU law does not require criminal law instruments, but leaves a lot of scope. I feel a bit strange now if I have to put forward certain factual arguments here to show you what the really essential criticism of this whole law is and why I also make an amendment at second reading, what – and now I have to address the Federal Minister directly – is: This is almost your fault now, if I may say so legally unprecisely! Mrs Minister, if we had the opportunity today to decide on the government template, as it was sent to the National Council, there might have been a unanimous decision-making procedure – perhaps even with the SPÖ. But no, between the government template and second reading in the National Council, namely at the meeting of the Justice Committee last week – that always sounds so stupid with the kneefall, women should in principle not fall to the knees, but only in the symbolic –, there was this kneefall, Mrs. Federal Minister, before industry and before the economy when it comes to these limits. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Calls.]] - She already understands me! She knows exactly what I mean! It's all weird at all: Dr. Böhmdorfer, while still a minister, strongly resisted these limits. And I don't know how the decision-making process has, in the end, been designed between a long time here and now. But at any rate, what is now available for decision-making contains a number of points that could have been designed differently or even better. I can only ask colleagues on the left to consider this, and if majority relations change, you can really try it; with the greens at any time. I then look at how it would be in a big coalition I hope she will never come again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: 2015!]] That is why I am now tabling an amendment: In § 4 para. 4 is replaced by “a maximum of 10 000. ” – These 10,000 are the absolute vulnerability here. Ms. Minister, €1.8 million is a lot of money for small Austrian companies. In view of the average sizes of our businesses, these companies will never even get close to this size, for in the explanations of the law it is said: It is necessary to take account of the economic situation of companies. – Even if you take into account the economic situation of the company, for others, €1.8 million can be almost a crack; I am now thinking of multinational corporations such as Shell, Esso, Microsoft, Siemens or the like. You can't speak like that, Mrs. Minister. This is the weakness of this law, although I hope that the preventive effect that has already been highly praised will be so great that it will show its own effect there. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider this again. Let us return to the state of the government template! Then it would be a law that everyone can imagine.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24908	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to ask you to submit the whole request. He's got to be brought in completely. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24927	That's clear! I present the proposal as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e24985	Thank you. This request is therefore properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25009	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I can no longer follow Mr Wittmann and his group: Hardly a camera is in sight somewhere, it seems to him most important that you secure and create jobs in Austria. Today he goes out and says: It is best to lock up businesses and give up jobs at the same time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, You know very well that the profitability of companies is crucial. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Therefore, it is a completely absurd argument to claim that small and medium-sized enterprises get a special hardness and not the big ones. It's about yield power! Either one does not read the laws in social democracy anymore or one simply is not bona fide, but mala fide and claims things that one knows are wrong. Both are not serious and non-governmental! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thirdly, If today I suspend companies – and I say it in the transferred sense – with an up-to-date ponization of the death penalty, then I am acting destructively and equally anti-consumer, because for the victims who then demand damages from the company, there is still a title, but no more company in which they can get money. So this too is contradictory, a zigzag course, demagogical and unscrupulous. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] I therefore believe – and come to the conclusion – that we have found a good solution in a very intensive process. Mr. Jarolim repeatedly claims that we would overrun him. I mean, for three years we have discussed intensively about a serious system change in our judicial system and have now found a compromise between consumer protection and site security. In the same way, we have observed the international equinox, as I would like to say. We cannot, however, pretend to ignore in Austria questions of the economic location and the decision where companies settle. We are now moving in an international fashion, we are even a little stricter than a number of European states, and at the same time we have done something important: We have now transferred content, which is now almost completely regulated in administrative criminal law, into criminal law and has therefore created a quality of consumer protection, which is clearly beyond what the EU has required of us, and which goes beyond what most European countries have. That means: We are consistent in consumer protection, but also in the protection of the economic location and jobs. Take an example and agree! You still have a chance.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25082	Mr Dr. Mr Wittmann on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Deputies! You are aware of the provisions: First of all the facts to be corrected, then the corrected situation in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25109	Mr Ikrath has claimed that I have stimulated the closure of farms here. [[Abg. Neudeck: They demanded vehement!]] – This claim is incorrect! I only argued that as a penalty for crimes, the closure or ban on operations could also be considered. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This is not equivalent to the closure of a holding.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25144	Mr Magistrate has the power to make a further actual correction. Mayer to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25168	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ikrath has claimed that this proposal will do something for consumer protection. I'll put it right: That's not the case!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25205	Mr President, this is not an actual correction; it is a political assessment. The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25229	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My dear women's ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that these two corrections have clearly shown how unwell the SPÖ actually feels that it is now the only party to this so important law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think that if it really remains that only and only the level of punishment is the decisive argument that you do not agree, then it is really not worthy, because a punishment to a maximum of € 1.8 million is to be termed too small – as I would believe – yet a little measure! I believe that there is a real right to blame you for not being able to do anything high enough when it comes to fines for businesses and you are not really worth jobs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would just like to add an additional aspect which, for me, has actually been in ambiguity. That is why I am so glad that there will also be an evaluation of this law. As you know, the bodies federal, state and local authorities are excluded from this law in their sovereign role. For example, in the area of water supply, for example, there is the fact that this is imposed by countries on municipalities. It is not clear to me that, if this is imposed on the one hand, it can be precisely as concerned by private law and, on the other hand, is subject to this law, as one makes the distinction here. I believe that this will be clearly expressed in the course of the evaluation. In any case: Overall, it remains that we close a gap with this law, which was absolutely necessary to close. – Thank you and ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25281	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25303	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann accused us that we would have stopped half of this government proposal or would have stopped half-way. – I mean: Whoever has stopped half way, these are you from the opposition or from the SPÖ, because you do not agree, although in reality you could not mention any reason why actually not, except the level of punishment. That's your only criticism! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We mentioned five reasons!]] But the dissatisfaction is the sign of the opposition. We already know this, Mr Jarolim, and the meticulous search for reasons why we do not have to agree, we already know that. And the “leader” that you can’t agree could have saved yourself, because you don’t want to agree, and you’re not sorry at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's a beautiful speech!]] As has been said, the only accusation was the amount of the penalty, that it cannot be deducted from the tax and that, as you have already said in the committee, it contains too little threat potential. Mrs Wurm has added that the penance does not benefit the victims. – I mean: If the demand for a strict punishment is justified, it must be kept in mind that we do not want to ruin entrepreneurs. If there is also a complaint here that there is no operating ban, then one must also see that in most cases the constellation is not present, that the entire operation is criminal, but that there are no corresponding organisational structures, that there is no responsibility and so on and so on. But it is not a kneefall in front of the industry that one has not banned from operating, but only economic thinking. Mr Ikrath has already said: We want to secure jobs and not destroy businesses. That's our big concern. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] You have then tried to get out a little with a real correction because you have seen that it is not very opportune to be against jobs or for job destruction. But that won't help you much: You are now alone with this demand to take a firm stand against the economy as far as possible, because only then the laws are right for you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the general prevention is concerned, I would like to point out once again that: We have committed a criminal offence in the criminal code, and that is enough threat for a company, because one of the companies also belongs to the reputation it has, and which companies can already be quoted before the judge? This alone is certainly enough to give more weight to responsibilities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Still Find You always have clear arguments that you do not have to agree to a law that makes sense that protects the victims and does not minimize the jobs. But we're just on our way to a good law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25396	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1077 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1, § 4 para. 4 to be introduced. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I would like to ask those members of the House who speak for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1077 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 138.) [[22:05:24]] 24. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1058, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Handelsgesetzbuch is renamed a Corporate Code and, together with the general Civil Code, the Stock Act 1965, the Act on limited liability companies, the cooperative law, the cooperative revision law, the company book law, the transformation law, the division law, the EEIG-execution law, the SE law, the Commercial Representative Act, the Law of Law of Laws, the Introductory Law on Civil Procedures, the Civil Procedure Act, the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, the Law of Law of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Law of Laws of Laws, the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, Trade and Civil and Civil and Civil and Civil Laws of Civil and Civil and Civil Laws of Laws of Civil Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and Civil Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, 1993, 1993 and of Laws and of Laws of the Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of 25. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on the draft federal law amending the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989 and the Association Act 2002 (1079 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25494	We now come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are now going to the debate. First of all, Mrs Fekter is speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25528	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the big trade change. That means: The old HGB no longer exists with this decision-making. We get a new corporate code – UGB. This has become necessary because the merchant concept of the Commercial Code or its priority trade with goods is no longer in line with market conditions. The services were not available in the appropriate form. And instead of the term “buyer” you have gone through to the concept of entrepreneurship. The main priorities of this reform are the single basic business activity, the liberalisation of company education rules, the opening-up of the business of passenger trade companies for every business, not just for trade, and the adjustments in the field of debt and property law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In particular, some provisions have migrated back to the ABGB, such as the acquisition of good faith. However, we retain in the UGB provisions on the “laesio vastis”, the rigorous loss of warranty claims in the event of omissions of defects or special provisions for guarantees and the exclusion of judicial measure in the event of contractual penalties. – These remained in the UGB. I believe that this reform work does well to modernise our legal system, and I am very confident that we will find a broad consensus in this regard in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25565	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25586	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think there will be a broad agreement to this law. The S & D Group will fully support this Act on Trade Law Amendment. Mr Fekter has already pointed out why this reform has become necessary. We are thus getting a single concept of entrepreneurs, a liberalisation of company law, a scope for individual businesses, especially for agriculture, and, among other things, an adjustment of accounting law is being created. I just want to remind you of something: The design was different. As a Socialist Group, we would not have voted in favour of the draft because, as you know, Mrs Fekter, there would have been a disadvantage for consumers. Don't forget: This Act on Trade Law amending the trade law regulates essential provisions concerning consumer protection and, to a large extent, regulates them positively. In the old draft, the current account balance was still included. This would have limited the effects of an injunction judgment. It was also included in the rules on the right of retention, which would have had a restrictive effect. You know the problem: Consumers don't have to pay if they don't have a proper contract performance, they can just keep the money back. Or the question of surprising security: This would have been difficult for individual small construction contractors to finance. We are therefore pleased that these amendments have been tabled, in particular the amendment tabled in the Committee on Justice. I would like to highlight two points here. One is this new regulation in § 38, according to which a contractual partner is able to object when a company is sold. I am thinking here of energy supply companies, for example, I am thinking of telecommunications companies, which are now able to object to consumers who have a contract with the respective company and then withdraw from this contract. I do not know whether all companies in Austria have recognised the scope of this legislation. But I think it is crucial to amend the Civil Code, which simply created more legal certainty. We know from the consultation the problems that arise when someone withdraws from a contract. There is usually a Conventional Penalty in the Treaty, in the General Terms and Conditions, and then the question is: Can further compensation be claimed? – With this new regulation, which has now taken place, we will create more legal certainty. In addition to a Conventional Penalty, the creditor can only claim the replacement of such excess damage if this is expressly agreed in the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act in consumer transactions. This will lead to an absolute improvement for consumers. Not only will we agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25623	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking as next speaker. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25644	Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to tell you anything about the antique merchant concept and the small-scale company start-up, which is established in the Commercial Code, which is still in force now, because my predecessor has already talked about it and it is already late, but I just want to mention that this is really the result of a great achievement that we have ahead of us today. It's really a big work! After all, the Handelsgesetzbuch is still from the German Empire and should have been revised for a long time. This has been started over and over again, but I think it has always been just attempts. It is now before us for decision-making, and it is a legislative work that is meant for decades, which has a tremendous scope and will change many areas. I think it's actually going down what we decide to do today – so much later on. I think that we should really say everywhere in economic circles what changing innovations we have decided by this law. I am very glad that this is happening together and that there is this agreement. - No, no, no, no, We understandably agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25681	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25702	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If so much positive about consumer protection and so much positive towards modernising corporate law is legal, of course we also agree, no question! The various aspects – where it gets better everywhere – have already been mentioned and detailed. I would just like to make a little improvement for the future to you. I also pointed out in the Committee that this should actually be integrated into the Consumer Protection Act. As it would have been possible in § 25b KSchG that the improvements for the debtors could also have been taken into account. The VKI in itself welcomed this original consideration, which had already been prepared, very strongly. It would have been a question of whether, when indebtedness issues exist, consumers and debtors through payments would first cover the costs of legal proceedings, then the capital, and only then the interest. But I have heard in the Committee that there will be an extra survey or an event to put the debt question on new legs as a whole and to make improvements and suggestions here. In that respect, Mrs Minister, I would like to share this aspect with you and, of course, I would also like to contribute to the positive decision-making of this legislative matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25732	Mrs. Mag, Federal Minister, spoke next time. Gastinger. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25754	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the High Committee! First of all, I would like to respond to Mrs Moser. As you know, § 25b KSchG was included in the original design. We took it out on the basis of strong criticism in the review process. But I can confirm at this point what I have already said in the Committee, namely that this is going to be a separate legal regime. Otherwise I have to say, of course, I am particularly pleased that this law, which is almost a century-old work, is what you can really say – because the HGB originates in its origins and for itself from the 19th century. Today, a clear unanimous decision-making process will be reached. However, I would like to take the opportunity that I am speaking now, also to benefit from it, especially the two professors Dr. Heinz Krejci and Dr. Martin Schauer – who, I suppose, are sitting on the visitor gallery – thank you very much, because these two gentlemen have made a very significant contribution to the fact that this act of law, which has been in the process for years, is now in its present form. [[General condolences.]] At the same time, of course, I would like to take the opportunity to thank my employees, especially Dr. Bydlinski, the head of section Hopf and his team, because without their expertise, without their know-how and, above all, without their endurance, two years have passed since the review process, in which this act was finally wiped out, we should not stand here, now in my case, and we cannot decide on this law. Also a warm thank you in this direction! [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank you for your attention, especially in view of the late hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25805	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25826	Madam President, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, this is a very, very important step in the corporate code. Years of reform efforts are being completed with this legislative decision. There are important clarifications and extensions. Many of you, at least those who are somehow related to the jurisdiction, know how laborious the definition of the merchant concepts – of purpose, canning, must, ist and other merchants – was in the past. All of this makes it easier for future jus students, because it is simple, I believe, for the sake of modern business law, to apply these provisions of the previous Commercial Code to all entrepreneurs in full. As already mentioned, important provisions, which have so far been enshrined in the Commercial Code, but which actually had significance for all areas of legal life, have been incorporated into the ABGB and are regulated in the right place. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a very essential clarification made in the Committee on Justice in the form of a committee, because it is also important for us that those who do voluntary work in many areas – our associations – are not perhaps very limited by a corporate code. That is why the Committee on Justice has expressly stated that club activity, which does not have an entrepreneurial property, in particular festivals and events that take place irregularly once, twice a year, or similar things that associations do, I believe, in the sense of the general public, should not be covered by this concept of company. I believe that this too has been an important step. Overall, this is an important step for all companies, for the economy and for consumers in Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25864	Mr Neudeck came to speak as the next speaker. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25885	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! Mrs. Federal Minister Gastinger thanked her staff and the professors. I can thank her now. The law, content and history of this law have been addressed. I believe that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has introduced a new form of negotiation in this ministry, both inside and outside, and I believe that it is also her merit: A very good consensual matter was presented here. But I also think it is to be thanked for their leadership of the Office and the negotiations that a consensus has been reached here. Thank you very much for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25914	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25936	Madam President. Ladies ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The content of the Corporate Code has been addressed by my predecessors. I would like to point out two aspects. This is reflected in a number of important judicial reforms in civil law, criminal law, corporate and economic law. In the field of justice, it has never changed as much, targeted and appropriate as in recent years. I would like to express my appreciation of this morning's employment policy. Reasonable, appropriate, modern standards are an important basis for economic, growth and employment. In this sense, however, this new corporate code is also an example of reasonable deregulation: not the abolition of standards, but a new approach, an applicable approach, a transparent approach for all users. I think this is a good reform, and I am pleased that we achieve a general consensus here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25966	Mr Doppler came to speak as the next speaker. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e25987	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate ministers! I would like to refer briefly to the Trade Law Amendment Act and really only to the previous speakers that this reform work, with this century work, has resulted in a modernisation of this law. Mr Maier has already pointed out in detail the references to the Consumer Protection Act. I believe that it is only worth mentioning that this draft is also in line with the EU directives, with EU standards. In my opinion, it is essentially a very reasonable and great achievement that this Act on Trade Law amendment will be adopted jointly by all four parties today. Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! It is my need to thank my group warmly for the government that has taken this reform step, which is also the goal of this reform course. However, I would also like to thank the Minister for her careful progress, and I would particularly like to express my thanks to the staff in the ministry who contributed to this reform work. Thank you very much for your approval!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26018	The next speaker was Mr Ledolter. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26039	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that not only Professor Krejci as a spiritual father and companion of this law is at the gallery, but also the combined capacity of the ministry and thus the brilliant interpreters of these ideas and drafts are here, it is quite difficult to say something on this subject at all, except that it is obviously a great throw that has succeeded here, so that, together with the Association Responsibility Act, measures are certainly put in place to strengthen the businesses, to strengthen the economy in our country. [[Abg. Dr. One:... delete!]] I also believe that legalisation and increased legal clarity will benefit not only the large ones, but also SMEs, in particular, from easier access to the company's start-up, but also from the fact that registration is possible in the company's book, liberalisation steps and the like. What has not become possible is to comply with the wishes of the insurance representatives, the insurance agents, a group of 11 000 people who meant that the exception could be removed from the insurance agency's legislation in the course of the definition of the company's code. I have the impression that there is not a lack of the legislator's willingness to reassess here and to create its own insurance agency law, but with all the steps that are necessary, namely consensus, assessment and everything else. In my opinion, the company register only needs to be rounded off on the basis of e-government. This whole scheme has succeeded in making a suitable framework for the good continuation of the economic policy of the Cabinet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26074	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First we come to the vote on the draft law on trade law amendment law, including title and receipt in 1078 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Prof. Dr. Krer Krejci is a member of the gallery.]] Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989 and the Association Act 2002, including the title and receipt in 1079 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:29:19]] 26. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1059, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, which amends the Criminal Procedure Act 1975, the Public Prosecutor's Act and the Reimbursement Act, and the Amendment No 525/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a federal law which provides for the review of discretion. § 35 para. 2 SMG in the grounds of invalidity according to § 281 para. 1 Z 11a StPO records (1080 d.a.) 27. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment 334/A (E) by Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues on the rehabilitation of victims of justice of Austrofascism (1082 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26177	We now come to points 26 and 27 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are now going to the debate. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Brinek is speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26207	Madam President. My women's ministers! High house! ==References== In January 2008, a criminal process reform will enter into force. As a result of the decision-making, it was a welcome resolution, namely that certain measures should be preferred in terms of strengthening victim rights, in order to ensure that victims can already be improved earlier – in terms of psychosocial and legal process support and information on them. Today, this resolution is in line with the present government template and is designed to improve the information and support of those who have become victims of criminal acts in respect of respect for their respect and dignity, and of the possibilities for compensation and assistance. I hope that there is as much agreement as possible on this. I would also like to refer to a request by Mr Partik-Pablé, Mrs Fekter, for the flexibility we are reaching in the judicial service to be applied to the prosecutors. I would also like to see the next item on the agenda at the same time: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think that these two measures are a good way to further improve the victim rights and the situation of the victims and ask for your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26247	Mrs Brinek, I would just like to point out that Agenda item 28 is dealt with separately. The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26271	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The initiative to strengthen the rights of victims is clearly based on SPÖ. [[Abg. Donabauer: Yes, of course! Of course!]] Before even the subcommittee on criminal proceedings has begun to meet, we have already held a fractional survey on which various examples of what needs to be changed. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 30 years you would have had time for it!]] In the subcommittee it was the SPÖ, which, together with the NGOs, insisted on strengthening the rights of victims. The fact that the rights of victims are now being preferred to this joint initiative, which I very much welcome, is also based on the SPÖ's request, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was able to make improvements in the last week. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's see because we're so open, Mrs. Colleague!]] It was laborious, but it was a reasonable and ultimately a successful cooperation. However, I would like to stress: If the opposition, if the SPÖ, had not always been so interested in the rights of victims by NGOs on this issue, the law would look quite different. There are, however, two drops of wormwood. Two urgent demands have not been accepted by the Committee, although Minister Gastinger – and I quote them – said: Everything that is technically possible and fits into the system is preferred. – Unfortunately, two points do not address this: firstly, the granting of procedural assistance to private individuals. That would fit well into this criminal order. There is no legal reason that this should not be done, just a financial one, and I think that right here we should not start saving. The second point, even the most unfortunate criticism at all, is that not all victims of violence will have the right to gentle consent in the future. For example, older women who were victims of a robbery were not taken into account. You can certainly imagine that these women are very traumatised, and we should make the situation easier for them. Or also in the field of family violence: It should be assumed that the victims are usually particularly emotionally affected. They say not to any foreign person, but to their own husband or father, with whom they live in the same household. Can you imagine how embarrassing it is, how embarrassing it is to tell the victim in a public trial before the well-known perpetrator about the details of the violence experienced? Can you imagine how it is for the woman when she has to talk about her kneeling in front of the locked ice box for food or that she had to pay tribute to her husband as God with a pumpgun or that she had to eat food in which the man had already spit or that she had to sleep on the ground next to the bed or that she could only wash on public toilets, since the man at home was always screwing off the faucets? These are not wild fantasy stories that I have invented, but these are everyday things from the work of the women's houses, the intervention agencies and the NGOs. Should these victims really be implied that they are being questioned several times in the public – in the presence of the perhaps grinning perpetrator or the family?- Oh, my God! Faith You really believe that these women are ready to do so, Mr Donabauer, because you have emphasized this in the Committee so that the argument that immediacy would no longer be given is really stronger than the protection of the victims, do you really believe that this will make the statement more credible, as was also argued in the Committee? I think it is urgently necessary for this very point of reform to be considered once again and for all victims of violence to be granted the right to gentle consent. “In doubt for the victims” would be a good approach here. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] One more thing: I would like to express my express thanks to the NGOs for their good cooperation with the White Ring, the intervention agencies, the women's houses and, and so on. These are great experts who work in victim protection work. It is all the more worrying, Mrs. Minister, that you do not support these institutions financially and instead put money into a culprit organization, the association new start, which, although excellent in the work of the perpetrator, is not an expert in the work of sacrifice. And in this context, you are funding a very questionable sexist advertising campaign. You should think about that again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26398	The amendment tabled by Mrs Stadlbauer has just been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Mittermüller. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26422	Thank you, Madam President. Women Ministers! High house! Today's improvements to victim protection in the criminal procedure are the continuation of responsible judicial policy. The rights of victims of violence should be improved in important areas. The key points are the right to psychosocial and legal trial support for victims of violence and the obligation to provide information to victims by the opposition parties when perpetrators are released. Both are essential improvements for the people in our country who have experienced great suffering from crimes. In particular, the monitoring of the process is an essential and more than necessary protection function for victims of violence. There were 1 500 reported social offences in Austria last year and, accordingly, the number of victims is also large. We all know that there's still a big dark spot in these crimes. People are afraid to bring their sufferings to light. It is to be hoped that these accompanying procedures, which increasingly encourage victims to display acts of violence. Mrs. Federal Minister Gastinger and her predecessor are very grateful for her commitment to the victims of violence. At this point I would like to contradict my previous speaker: It is not just SPÖ initiatives that contribute to victim protection. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stadlbauer: I didn't say that either!]] In this context, I would like to point out that a budget approach for victim protection has been established for the first time under Minister Böhmdorfer. For 2001, €400 000 was budgeted for this, and in this year this approach was increased to € 2 million. It would be a good thing if a joint decision were taken on these measures, which were largely in agreement, in order to take an important step for the victims.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26463	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26484	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In fact, I did not add anything to the words of Mr Stadlbauer, except perhaps that I would have wished for her to say, where she thought it would have been “the SPÖ” who demanded it, that it was the opposition, because at least as intensive as the SPÖ collegiates used it, we did so too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Fight a biter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This has ultimately also led to the fact that parts of the amendment tabled by SPÖ and Greens to the judicial committee have also come to understand and agree with the government groups. It is seen that both opposition parties work constructively in the National Council, especially in the judicial committee, otherwise such a thing could not happen. Nevertheless, I do not repeat what Bettina Stadlbauer said, so today's amendment. - That's the first one. Secondly, I must say that I am sorry to hear here constantly, which ministers how much money which organizations give when; this does not turn against the two ladies behind me now. Mrs Mittermüller said that again, as if Mr Böhmdorfer had given anything of his own money for victim protection facilities. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Please, this is the money of the Austrian population, the taxpayers and taxpayers, who, because they are necessary and important, have also been budgeted in accordance with the agreement of the National Council, but not: He's got in his budget... I'm sorry! We want this together. This StPO-Novelle is now being decided jointly because the pre-procedural reform of opposition and government has been recognized as a necessity. I'm happy about that, and I wanted to say that. One last thing: It is also amended by the Reimbursement Act. I do not want to initiate a debate here on amnesty, the rehabilitation of homosexuals. I would just like to point out, Mrs Minister, that today I have not tabled the amendment I have tabled to the Committee on Justice, but I have tabled it as a self-employed request, so we will have the opportunity to discuss this request intensively in the Committee on Justice. There are also proposals for improvement for this initiative. I am not entitled to perfection, because I am not a legislative or at all, not at all an expert in the system like the gentlemen in your place, Mrs Minister. I assume you would not raise this claim for yourself. What I wish, however, Mrs Minister and Mrs President of the Committee on Justice, is that we have this discussion in the Committee on Justice, because this is a necessary discussion. It is in this republic that we should go right ahead of grace.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26540	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26561	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The extension of the protection of victims is an absolute must in our democratic society. This is already evidenced by the agreement of all political groups on this change in law. I would particularly like to address women who are exposed to a large number of forms of violence and who urgently need victim assistance. Most of the crime victims in our society are female. Violence against women is one of the crucial social mechanisms by which women are held in a subordinate position. We know from reports and personal discussions that crime victims after the Most of the events are traumatized and do not want to talk to anyone or can also talk about the event. These people urgently need help, also from the state. It is now foreseen that persons who may have been injured by a criminal act in their sexual integrity are entitled to be heard in the preliminary proceedings by a person of the same sex as possible. For women in particular, the agreement on sexual assaults means a major obstacle to them. From the in-force steps of the legislative change, they can refuse to answer questions they consider unreasonable, and they can also demand the exclusion of the public at the main proceedings. The right to psychosocial and legal follow-up will be a great relief for those concerned. As early as 2006, the police must inform the victims of the crime at the first hearing of their victim rights. This means that victims are no longer left alone, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26598	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26619	Madam President. Ladies Minister! This package today includes, in fact, rather atypically on the basis of an agreement made to deal with it, also the subject of the rehabilitation of victims of justice of Austrofascism. Especially now in the commemorative year, I must say with great regret that – yet one of the blackest chapters of the Second Republic – it has not succeeded in establishing a corresponding, especially the commemorative year together. I should like to point out that we already tabled a resolution in February 2004. In a long series of rather very strange treatments, this request was repeatedly postponed. Finally, it has succeeded in making a decision, but in the negative sense. That is why he is also at the discussion today. What's this about? . I may perhaps mention the motion for a resolution again and point out that the events of February 1934, in which a number of resistance fighters, patriots, tried against the coup, against the blockage of Parliament and the resulting consequences of this attack on democracy, which was also one of the foundations of the weakening of the Republic in view of the subsequent National Socialist atrocities. This has been handled in a way that is not worthy of a rule of law. I should like to point out that German Chancellor Dollfuss acted at the time in a way that can also be described as a murder in a criminal political sense. I think that this commemorative year of the Republic should be considered. I can really ask you to take a stand and not to push out more or less how these victims have been dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if they all know that, but it was so that it was ultimately also about standing an example, including by extending the law of war beyond the time of the revolution, in order to execute judgments on people who were seriously injured. At the time, there were 21 court rulings, which took place around the 12th century. He was hanged around February. I'm allowed to name only Koloman Wallisch, Emil Swoboda, Karl Münichreiter. These are incidents which the government, the ÖVP and also your side, Mrs Minister, have not yet experienced an excuse. The argument that there was already the law of 1945, which de facto dealt with, we had not applied to the subject matter of the victims of National Socialism either. That is to say, there is actually no reasonable reason to deal with these victims differently than with the victims of National Socialism. I therefore consider this to be to the greatest regret and would think that you should go into it again. I am saying this in full awareness that this topic has already been tailored to the issue of many times. It seems to me, however, that in the year of commemoration, it seems to me to be particularly useful and necessary to ask whether it is necessary for you here in the house of that person who actually has to represent all these war crimes, which is actually to be described as a serious criminal worker murderer, namely, to give up a place to worship by hanging up the picture here. I think that sometime in an objective way, you too, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have to stand up to your story and admit that this was a mistake, a cardinal mistake, and that you draw from it the corresponding consequences. These can certainly not be that here more or less a worship that is not worthy of this country is maintained more or less over the back door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26667	Mrs Mag. Gastinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26689	Madam President. Dear colleague of the government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to refer once again to the protection of victims and, above all, to what Mrs Stadlbauer said. I think that the area of victim protection should be kept out of any political discussion. That's my personal opinion. I have now had a lot of contact with victim protection associations in the area of process support, because we work with a lot of associations. I think it is particularly important to act together in order to protect victims. Just as I see this from the discussion in the High National Council, I assume that this is an important concern for all of us together. I don't think it makes sense to play the clubs against each other. I have even had to find out during our discussion on how difficult it was to get different associations to a table and negotiate this agreement with the Ministry of Justice in the final effect. But I am very glad that this has finally been successful. We have already put the psychosocial and legal process accompaniment on our feet. That's already running. We are already offering on a voluntary basis in the field of the Ministry of Justice those measures which the High National Council will decide in a few minutes. I think this is both the right and the important way. As some previous speakers have said, we have just increased our budget for this area. In 2000, about €33,000 were spent in the field of victim protection from the judicial budget, and in 2005 I am in favour of the field of victim protection – thanks to your support, Mrs Stoisits is certainly right, because the budget is decided by the High National Council – a budget of 2 million € are available. I think that we are on the right path and that we should continue this path. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26728	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26749	Madam President. Mrs Bundesministerins! I would like to take a very brief look at Mr Jarolim's comments. From our point of view, the law is of the 19th century. January 1946 on the cessation of criminal proceedings and the forbearance of penalties for fighters against National Socialism and Fascism very well applicable as regards the rehabilitation of the victims of justice of Austrofascism. Nevertheless, this is really one of the blackest chapters of Austrian history. - That's part of it. A second comment I would like to make regarding Mrs Stoisits' announcement that she should consult the Committee on the eradication of homosexuals at the next Committee meeting: We are already looking forward to it, but I now note that a general eradication will hardly be possible for us, since each individual case can be illuminated as such and every individual case can then be assessed, since we have a mixture of offences that are still punishable under § 209 under § 207b. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26777	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26798	Madam President. Dear ladies on the government bank! High house! ==References====External links== The resolution on improving the protection of victims was adopted unanimously on the occasion of the adoption of the Criminal Process Reform Act on February 2004. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Federal Ministry of Justice was asked to consider whether improvements to the rights of victims created by the Criminal Process Reform Act could be incorporated into the current criminal procedure by the end of 2007 before the in-force step of this law, in order to achieve these benefits at an earlier date. In the area of indictment and the grounds for annulment, the divisional rules and divisional possibilities contained in the draft Constitutional Responsibility Act are to be secured in other laws. The draft amendment to the Reimbursement Act aims to allow the new classification envisaged under the Integrated Execution Administration by creating an unlimited access by the institution to the criminal register for the purposes of preparing the classification to accelerate procedures themselves and to minimise security risks in the framework of preclassification. In order to enable a comprehensive supply of such process support facilities throughout the country, the Federal Minister for Justice will be commissioned by the Federal Minister for Justice to provide appropriate facilities in a contractual manner with the support of the process. I think In turn, further improvement of the protection of victims and the rights of victims is ensured. Decision-making on this bill is good and makes sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26846	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26868	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft certainly contains significant improvements in the area of victim rights, but these improvements are still worthy of improvement. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are not satisfied with anything!]] But it is already a very good sign, although a very rare one, that the review procedure has not completely been passed on to the government groups, and that one or other suggestion of the opposition has been put in place. For example, it is positive that psychosocial and legal process support should be granted under certain conditions. Procedural support, Mr Praßl, is something other than procedural assistance, and it will continue to prevent victims of crime who, as private participants, join the criminal proceedings, all of them, including the victims of violent crimes. Especially angry in the Committee, I have statements from the current government factions that there is no money for this, because where would you get there if everything were paid? These statements, ladies and gentlemen, are for me truly white cynicism and immeasurable ignorance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also described a tragic case in the committee from my district. A woman was – apparently one has to say, because the judgment is not yet valid – raped on a gender army post years ago and has a child as a result of this rape. Mother and the 13-year-old child have been and are severely traumatized as you can imagine, and in the past have had to do a skewer run in order to get the treatment costs replaced. After several years of delay in proceedings, the main proceedings finally came about two weeks ago. The woman has been stagnant at the beginning without any representation and has had to go and collect privately in order to finance the cost advance for her legal assistance. It is a pleasure in this context – and I do not wish to mention this – that the Minister of Justice has given her support in this individual case, so that at least the material concerns could be eased. However, it is unfortunate that the government parties still do not want to grant any assistance to victims of crime in criminal proceedings and thus refer victims to the long and risky civil law path, where the whole procedure must then be carried out again. I believe that it would have been a most appropriate step to continue to meet victims of crime, for example by extending the gentle agreement. Finally, these people have really had to endure enough in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26911	Mrs Collaborative, I will look at your speech carefully. If you really blamed Mrs. “Zynism” and “Inordinate Ignorance”, we still have to talk to each other. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm still looking at that in the Minutes. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Then take a look!]] The next speaker is Mrs Marek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26951	Mr President. Ladies ministers! High house! I very much welcome the fact that the important improvements for crime victims will now come into force a year earlier compared to the original decision. It is a good decision in a very sensitive area. Let me, however, deal with an area in which we will certainly need special action in the near future, namely trafficking in human beings. – According to OSCE, some 500 000 people are now being dragged into the European Union annually according to careful estimates. Under what conditions these women – especially women – then live here, reports in the media always make clear. Especially in the case of trafficking in women, the creation of appropriate provisions for the protection of victims is particularly important, and I very much hope that we can create common rules here that provide the necessary security for those concerned. This is particularly important if the women concerned, in cooperation with the authorities, are to contribute to the arrest and condemnation of the tractors. The Ministers for Smoking and Plassnik have already taken first steps in this regard with important, partly transnational initiatives, for which I would like to thank very much at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the NGOs who are doing essential work in the care and support of the victims. I would particularly like to mention here the club LEFÖ, who tomorrow his 20th. Birthday celebrates and today's balance sheet could take over 20 moving years. My appreciation and my recognition apply to the employees of these organisations.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e26994	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore proceed immediately to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Criminal Procedure Act 1975, the Public Prosecutor's Act and the Reimbursement Act, in 1080 of the Supplements. Hiezu, Deputies Stadlbauer, Mag. Mr Stoisits, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposal and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Deputies Stadlbauer, Mag. Stoisits, colleagues, and others have tabled an additional request for the insertion of new points 1 and 4a in Art. I and the resulting change in the number. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion to give a sign. – The request does not find the majority in the House and is therefore rejected. I shall now vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a positive sign. – This will be given unanimously. The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this bill at third reading, I ask for a sign. – The sign is given unanimously. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1082 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. This report will be adopted by a majority. [[23:04:47]] 28. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 663/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Richterdienstsgesetz (1081 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27077	We're now on the 28th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. May I boldly ask Mrs Mikesch and Mr. Don't necessarily turn my back while I'm in here! [[Abg. Mikesch: Sorry!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Sorry!]] There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mulder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27122	Mr President. My two ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will give its consent to the amendment of the judicial service law because it is a compromise: In the previous year, you, Mrs. Justice Minister, made the accusation and intended to raise the explosive judges from two to four out of 100 judges. An important pillar of the rule of law is the independence of judges. The Constitution also provides for and lays down the inadmissibility and inadmissibility. A goal among the explosive judges was always that you can provide judges for unforeseen cases. Therefore, the Constitution also provides for an exception. It is set with a limit of two to 100 judges. That is why it was also foreseeable at that time that your allegation of rejection would occur in the courts, because of course this would have affected the principle of indifference. However, the present application takes into account the concerns of the judiciary and the criticism of SPÖ. The court was particularly important that it should be in the case of the applications for the explosive judges, there is no change and the use of the explosive judges will continue to be a very narrow exception. This concern is taken into account in the application. We also welcome the fact that there has not been a doubling of the proportion of explosive judges, but that three out of 100 plantations are now planned for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27161	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27182	Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make one amendment, but first of all I would like to address a few words to the SPÖ. Mrs Colleague, without an explosive judge, the court would not at all be able to maintain it, especially since about 50 per cent of women are judges, because there are too many karences, and there is a need for explosive judges because otherwise, as has been said, huge burdens on the population would arise. [[Abg. Neudeck: 50 percent of judges are women!]] I would like to make an amendment which is irrelevant in content, which represents only legal improvements, namely: [[Quoted print version removed]] As I said, we naturally agree with the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27248	The amendment tabled by Mrs Partik-Pablé, tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé, Dr. Fekter, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Mag, the last person to speak, is Mrs. Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27274	Ladies and gentlemen! As often as the Constitution is not changed in the National Council, I did not want to speak at all. But I have now spoken in order not to leave an impression in the room: as if women of childbearing age were guilty of having to change the constitution now because they allow themselves to be judges, are they? It's not like that. - Mrs. Minister laughs behind me. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can put everything in the negative!]] Mrs. Minister! There's your imagination and that of your house asking to dissuade this perhaps implied accusation. This novel is such a golden middle path: One wants four, then one needs a two-thirds majority, and then three out. I'm happy with that, too. [[Abg. Wittauer: For that you didn't want to say anything, you say quite a lot!]] Mrs Minister, I would like to take this opportunity or take this decision on the occasion to say: There are not only staff problems in the field of case law, but there are staff problems also in areas of judicial administration, where it is not about two-thirds majority and the like. One only needs to think about the judicial guard, or about the crowded prisons, or about the fact that in Austria's prisons there is now a much more complicated clientele – that is, inmates – and no more psychiatrists, no more psychologists, no more social workers. Mrs Minister, I wish you a lot of success in human resources negotiations as in this case. You can now more than need these wishes in the sense of Austrian justice, I believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27322	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1081 of the Supplements. Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Fekter, Mrs Hizu have tabled an amendment. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Since there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Dr Partik-Pablé, Dr Fekter, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This sign is also given unanimously. Therefore, the two-thirds majority required for a constitutional purpose is also available. [[23:13:05]] 29. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 606/A (E) by Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt, Mag. Walter Tancsits, colleagues on the submission of the first Austrian male report, in the sense of Gender Mainstreaming, to the National Council (1015 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27393	We're now on the 29th. Agenda item: Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 606/A (E) by Mr Mag. Chief, Magistra... Tancsits, colleagues, on the submission of the first Austrian male report, in the sense of gender mainstreaming, to the National Council. There was no oral reporting. Mr Heinisch-Hosek is the first woman to speak. Your preferred speaking time is 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27420	Mr President. The ladies Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! Mr President, may I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I find tancsits quite amusing, but it is probably only a promiser. [[Abg. Neudeck: That means “Men’s Report”!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Men's reports are not good if they are based on five individual studies already available, and two studies that are in progress, sum up seven studies, as it is the intention of this application to produce a five-year male report – at least we read this out. It also stands black on white as well inside: The existing studies may be introduced and the two studies in progress may also be included in this male report. I also think that discussions about the German anthem are not good if they want to distract them from the women's political failure of the women's minister. On the other hand, in the sense of gender mainstreaming, male reports are good if they are also based on criteria of Gender mainstreamings are created, but unfortunately this is not the case here. I only recall a ministerial council presentation by the women's minister from the previous year – from March 2004 – where the Federal Government commits itself politically and legally to incorporate the gender mainstreaming strategy into all political concepts and fields of action, to examine all the gender-specific effects of laws and regulations, and to commit itself to gender data collection, collection, evaluation and presentation in all Federal Ministries. – That means that this also applies to all the studies that are being prepared. Unfortunately, however, I do not read any of this in this proposal. Good was the last women's report. - It's from 1995. We urgently expect a women's report in 2005. I don't hear he was already commissioned, and I'm waiting to see if that goes out. In the same way, I would like to point out that there is a lack of consistency in the existing proposal. In the autumn of 2005, this comprehensive male report is to be completed. Autumn still lasts until 21. This is the case, and even if you only summarize things quickly, it may take a little longer to make them serious. In order for gender mainstreaming to produce a male report against which we have nothing if it compares comparatively to comparable, we are proposing an amendment which we have already tabled in committee. I would like to inform him briefly. [[Quoted print version removed]] In conclusion: We'd have a final male health report. We have a final report on women's health. If one looked at these two reports and compared them in the sense of gender mainstreaming, one could save a lot of money and would have available equally good and a lot of data to introduce legislative changes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27492	The amendment by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, drawn up by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Silhavy, colleagues, to the Committee's report on Amendment No 606/A (E) by Mr Mag. Head and Power. Tancsits concerning the submission of the first Austrian male report, in the sense of gender mainstreaming, to the National Council is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Your welcome time is 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27516	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that it is good and necessary that there should now be and will be a male report similar to the reports of women, youth and families, also with a focus on the involvement of women. Buben and men's work, but also the father's involvement, starting from the karenz to further away. To the Gender I would like to say once again, because I believe that many cannot begin with this term: Gender is social gender. Gender refers to the different social roles, rights and obligations of women and men. Mainstreaming means bringing something into the main stream. I am convinced and hope that this government will also bring this report towards a major stream and that the SPÖ and the Greens may be satisfied once.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27552	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Weinzinger. Requested time: Five minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27574	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I take away from the noise level that at least some are still awake. - I'm very glad. Especially at the FPÖ, enthusiasm always grows when women's policy issues are discussed at the speaker's desk – this time women's policy and men's policy issues, because I would like to address both of them. [[Abg. Wittauer: So when women talk about men, it will be difficult!]] In advance, a comment: I am very much in favour of producing a reasonable, contemporary man's report, which takes the place which is quite worthy of male policy. [[Abg. Wittauer: Dear daughters and sons!]] Secondly, However, I am deeply convinced that this federal government does not intend to do so. I have two plastic examples to support my suspicion. One example is quite simple: What this Federal Government has presented for male health is this package. [[The speaker has three volumes, the first of which bears the title ‘Austrian Male Health Report 2005’.]] What this Federal Government has presented for women's health is this narrow issue. [[The speaker holds a volume entitled “Austrian Women’s Health Report 2005”.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: They are much healthier than the men!]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Greens and the Liberals.]] Should I assume that this is mainstreaming, as Mrs Steibl wants? So according to the motto: Oh, always the women! There must be enough to write together a few pages, while of course we have to devote several volumes to male health and give a high value. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's something that's going through. Not only that most of your policy uses men more than women – or more harms women than men, keywords: Pension reform, tax reform and so on – not enough – that would actually be too much! – no, if there has been a women’s ministry in the past governments, then now you have to look at the fact that the women’s resort is getting as little as possible to do and similar to man’s policy – in your definition. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is not true!]] I would also like to document the content of this report to prove a second claim, because I said yes: a reasonable, contemporary male report – at any time I would like to! What you publish, these are things that do not necessarily correspond to that. I quote from the “Man Counselor” – just published by this Federal Government – for example, page 259: “From nature the woman is emotionally and physically equipped to care for children months before birth and years afterwards as a primary and dominant relationship. This innate impulse can also be transferred to extended care and assistance beyond childhood and their own children – which is used by all societies. But it is no longer genetically compelling.” [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Where's that?]] What century do we live in? I no longer read in detail, but point out that the counselor also says something to the men – it's a man's counselor – that the "universal spread of warring and cooperative male communities in all cultures" is evidence that "the genetic-hormonal drive to domination and order, to leadership and co-operative men is more own than women". [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm sure that's not true!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now we know: Genetics is to blame for being a man German chancellor. The fact that this man is and these parties are, unfortunately, the voters are still to blame. They'll think about it when they read it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Such men's reports – no thank you! I would like to agree with Mr Heinisch-Hosek's request. That'll make sense. What you're doing here is pre-pre-emptive policy, and we really don't need it – even the men!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27732	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Main to the speaker's desk. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Congratulations and bravado with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since you have today's birthday, Mr. Haupt, you are welcomed by the general public.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27759	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Weinzinger, I do not hope that you will ever be treated according to the same hormonal ideas you have just formulated, because then you will have to make a shaving machine available to you relatively soon. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So this is also the decouvriert, which you have always postulated from the left half of the empire here: The same can only be treated equally, and to treat unevenly, unfortunately, this is not possible. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I ask you, Mrs Colleague, to note that there are really genetic differences, and that is, I think, very good. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you want to shape it the same way, we will be in a society where the European anthem is true: all people become brothers. – This is a society in which I do not want to live as a former woman’s minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27819	Mrs Haubner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27853	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to come back to the point, because it is ultimately a matter of expressing a policy which is a gender policy, of women and men, including in all policy areas, with a men's report to be submitted to Parliament. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: How about a removal?]] I am glad that there is a general agreement that there should also be a male report if there is a women's report. It is only apparent that access is different from what is to be found in this male report. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think anything about playing women against men and men against women – even at an advanced hour. I'm asking for an objective level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: It's about gender mainstreaming...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's family and gender policy requires very active participation by men in all areas. Partnership and family responsibility require coordination and, above all, the interaction of men and women. It is therefore very important that we show with studies, surveys and examinations that men increasingly want to participate actively in the development of a gender partnership. This planned first Austrian male report stems from several considerations: On the one hand, the real need to prepare these topics for the people as well – also in the sense of a holistic family and gender policy. Above all, it should also be a result of a forward-looking policy that began in 2001 with the establishment of the principle department of the Member States. At that time, this innovative step was strongly smiled and criticized in 2001 and has since become not only a recognized department, but also in all our European neighbours and member states, which is constantly welcomed and observed. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore very consistent when a very compact summary of the situation of men in their development, the boys, the boys, as well as the men and fathers in Austria is presented and discussed in a very compact manner in the Austrian National Council. This report is intended to be in the interest of all parties represented in the Austrian Parliament. In this sense, I think it is a good step we are taking here that we are presenting a male report, which should also be discussed intensively together with the women's report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27923	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e27945	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! It was an effort from your side, and you also announced that when you said you wanted to come to an objective level. But, frankly, Mr President. Even a birthday doesn't justify distilling the stupid-thin comments quoted from the book at the beer table level, as you did in your speech. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Do you want to smear in now?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I believe that my colleague Weinzinger's comments on what is here in the men's guide have caused you to be concerned and should not then be made by shivering and clapping remarks – according to the motto: Now she's shown it again! – to be tried to eliminate. [[Intervocations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I really think this is a huge problem. That is not appropriate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would also like to return briefly to this booklet and, of course, to the fears we have about this male report. It was my colleague Weinzinger who said: We have nothing against a man's report! On the contrary: It would sometimes be necessary to report on the situation of men, even when compared to the situation of women. That would make sense. Why are there certain developments in men who do not exist in women or vice versa? That would make sense. But the men's report is not designed. Above all: We now have a taste of what may still be possible. Excuse me, Mr President. But your comments have brought this to a level that is not at all appropriate to that. In addition, this man counselor is an incredible collection of records or addresses. I do not want to deal with the situation of women, but also with the situation of men at this level.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28003	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28025	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Secretary of State! High house! For me, it is the goal of social policy, people and groups of people who need to help, and for me it is also the goal of making this aid available in a way that creates a better society. We know that men die not only a few years earlier than women, we know that the suicide rate in men is a giant higher than in women, especially young people, and we know that there are whole health areas in which there are huge differences and problems, I am thinking only of alcoholism: In view of all of this, I can only say that, especially in Austria, where the problem of alcoholism is, for example, so far, that not only thousands or tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands of them are affected, we must not close our eyes, but also try to offer appropriate solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am therefore pleased that there is a policy and that an attempt is being made to address these problems actively. I would also like to thank Herbert Haupt for starting in his ministerial period, and I thank Mrs Haubner for continuing this. I assume that the first report will certainly not be perfect, that there will be many mistakes and many things in it, which may be incomprehensible, but if we do not address it with ideology, but simply and simply socially oriented, then I am sure that this report will bring substantial progress. What I wish is that we should go to work with less prejudice and a stronger social sense!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28067	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1015. Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the amendment tabled and then on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1015. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a similar sign. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1015. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This resolution is therefore adopted. (E 139.) [[23:34:49]] 30. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (951 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Bulgaria on social security (1014, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28134	We're coming to 30. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28162	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austrian social policy is not only characterised by quality in our own country, but also by the fact that we have agreements with many countries with which we offer our services in exchange to all those who are in economic and social connection with us. The debate is about an agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Bulgaria on social security. Such agreements exist not only on the basis of the Treaty of Accession with all EU countries – with which this is already regulated in EU law – but also with other 44 countries. Finally, we have concluded with Poland and Slovakia, which have now become members of the European Union. These agreements deal specifically with the scope of statutory social security, health insurance, accident and pension insurance, unemployment law, but also with the normized legislation of social law in Bulgarian law. There's just an exchange. It is further established that residence in another country takes the legal basis with the exception of unemployment, the compensation allowance or pensions under Bulgarian legislation. It is important for me that this law lays down that data protection is protected in such a way that, when data exchange takes place, it can only be used for this particular area. It is also important that this Agreement is not based on the period prior to the entry into force of this Agreement. – On and on, this is a good thing that we will certainly give our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28199	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28220	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Social security, of course also cross-border, is very much at our heart to social democrats. It is gratifying that at the end of many heated debates and the unapologizing derailment of our Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel of this item on the agenda 30, agreements with Bulgaria on social security, will be decided unanimously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, in our own country, in Styria, there is still a very unsocial place, namely that for women, family and society, which is headed by the ÖVP councillor, Mrs Edlinger-Ploder, who is being treated with the help of persons seeking help extremely unsocial and inhuman. I should like to mention the most recent example here. Yesterday, Mr Klaus Heufler, living in Leoben, called at this place in Graz and inquired about any aid because his wife's days had expired. [[Lively calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] That's important! People also have a right to social care in their own country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The age of his wife's leave has expired and he has therefore asked if there is any aid. The Heufler family has three children aged seven, four and two and a half years.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28273	Mr deputies, would you intertwine the word ‘Bulgaria’?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28294	We are now concluding an agreement between Austria and Bulgaria. It's about social security. But in our own country we also have the social security of our fellow human beings, of our women and of our men. The answer that came from this office was that you have to think before if you...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28319	I give you the first call on the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28337	The answer was that if you put three children into the world, you have to think about it before. In addition, the state already pays enough for women and families. – That’s very bad! Although we agree with this social agreement, I add: You, especially the ÖVP in Styria, must make social policy and not just promise!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28367	Mrs Steibl spoke in favour of an actual correction. – You know the Rules of Procedure: Facts against facts, no political assessments. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28392	Mr Dobnigg claimed here that the “Women, Family, Society” section or the staff of this section provided an unsocial information. I can see and correct that a family with three children – and the Heufler family is a family with three children – is no longer entitled by law because the state government of Styria – and among them also the SPÖ – has decided that the application for the child grant must be submitted in the first year of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28425	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28446	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have, of course, just like the President, asked myself what this problem has to do with the social agreement, but now, after this answer or your actual corrective position, Mrs Steibl, I really have to ask myself: What's going on in the Styria? [[Call the ÖVP: What?]] As far as things are concerned about how you have done this, it is inappropriate whether this is done with SPÖ participation or FPÖ participation. [[Abg. Steibl: I made a proper actual correction! We have a president who knows what's going on! If Mrs Prammer had been sitting up, it would have been different!]] In this case, I do not care whether this is appropriate to this point, the Social Agreement with Bulgaria, since I also have to say: Such an answer is totally inappropriate! Actually, I have to say: They really belong to selected ones, even in the Styria! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Second point: On the Social Agreement of Austria-Bulgaria, just one comment: Of course, we agree with such agreements in principle if they improve somewhat. On this occasion, however, I would like to draw your attention – and there was also another political constellation – to the following: We have also decided on social agreements here, or you have decided, which has not improved the social situation, such as the agreement with Turkey, but by which our Turkish fellow citizens here in the country, the migrant workers who have worked and worked here for years, have removed the family allowance. I can still remember that on this occasion you said: We are doing this because this is no different from the budget, but on the next best occasion we will change it again! In the meantime, many occasions have passed, and you have not changed anything to the positive, but the worsening state you have only made with your decision as it was. This is certainly not social, even if the agreement is called ‘social agreements’!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28499	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 951 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. But we come to a number of votes. Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28537	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Kößl and Dr. Partik-Pablé, the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on request 685/A concerning a federal law amending the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Settlement and Residence Act and the Foreign Employment Act. ==References== If you agree to this request for a deadline, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request receives the majority of the House and is therefore adopted. We shall now vote on the request of Mrs Rosenkranz and Mr Steibl, the Family Committee for Reporting on the Government Template, which adopts the Federal Law on the Establishment of the Society “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH” and amends the Family Compensation Act 1967, in 1070 of the Supplements, a period of time until 18. ==References== If you agree to this deadline, I ask for a sign to be given. - That's the majority. This request is therefore adopted. [[23:45:01]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28600	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Kogler, colleagues, on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry on the procurement of Eurofiger-Kampfjets. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28695	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We shall now proceed to the vote on this request for an investigation committee. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – The request does not find the majority of the House and is therefore rejected. [[23:45:44]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28734	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues for the setting up of an investigation committee on the procurement of combat aircraft. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28907	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00122_d7e28942	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 699/A to 711/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3455/J to 3447/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 23:46 a.m. – that is, for now. This meeting is closed.
