ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4607	The meeting was opened. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen in the House. The official protocols of the 112. Meeting of 8. ==References====External links== Meeting of 9. In June 2005, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Einm, Rossmann and Wittauer are reported as prevented. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4641	I have a letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, which reads as follows: Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. I have the honour to inform myself that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, on my proposal in accordance with Article 70(1). 1 in conjunction with Article 76(1). 2 B-VG Ambassador Dr. Hans Winklerzum appointed State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. Best regards Wolfgang Schüssel’ [[09:05:10]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4678	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject Economic policy for Austria The current hour starts at 9.05 a.m. First of all, Mr. Dr. Maier has spoken. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4708	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The current hour with the theme “Economic Policy for Austria” gives an opportunity to consider the individual federal states a little. And it is interesting in this context to use the labour market data once. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Styria!]] I can use the Vienna labour market data to do this. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: But that's not funny!]] - Don't laugh! They should be glad that in Vienna, although fewer unemployed were reported in June, namely precisely around 1,838, there have been more people in training, by 38 percent more. Let's look at the Austrian average: In Austria, about 9 percent are in training. If one turned this over to Vienna, it would mean that in Vienna a further increase in the number of unemployed would be about 2.4 percent. A bad thing would be that because of the upcoming elections the number of those in training was slightly increased. Incidentally, a similar development can also be observed in Burgenland. The Social Democrats in Burgenland and the Social Democrats in Vienna are trying to escape from unemployment statistics through training courses. This does not require the Styria, there is not the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: The Minister of State does not care about this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, there is also an increase in youth unemployment compared to the previous year, which is very unfortunate, namely by more than 1,219 – and this in the development that in Vienna the number of younger inhabitants is declining and that of older people is increasing. This sheer is very unpleasant. But let me also point out that in recent years, since 1999, Vienna has lost more than 21,000 jobs. There is a forecast – I am only trying to rely on studies – of the Research Institute Synthesis, which shows that, given that economic growth between 2005 and 2008 will amount to 1.9 percent, in Vienna employment, employment levels will not be maintained. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Total saving of government!]] On the contrary: Vienna continues to lose jobs, all the other Länder will be laid down. Austria will receive a total of 116 000 jobs, only in Vienna we will lose 5 500 jobs by 2008. [[Abg. Riepl: The culprit is behind you!]] In other words, the number of unemployed will continue to rise in Vienna. [[Abg. Parnigoni: A failure of this federal government! A serious failure!]] Let me take another international comparison. There is a study on the part of the WAFF, the Vienna employee fund, a country comparison, in which Vienna, Amsterdam, Bratislava, Hamburg and Helsinki were compared. It was found that only Vienna alone had the highest number of unemployed and, at the same time, a decline in the number of farms by 7 percent in the period from 1995 to 2002. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You won't benefit from this in the campaign!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: A failure of the Minister of Economic Affairs!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Colleague! Mr. Mayor Häupl actually plays the role of a standing violinist on the Titanic. He sings his songs, sings in front of himself, and doesn't notice where the tanker leads. I'll tell you: There are a number of observers who are already talking about the fact that in view of Bratislava's prosperity, the booming trend in Bratislava Vienna can become the sleeping town of Bratislava. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't be ridiculous!]] But that is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy and, in particular, of Vienna's Social Democracy. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] The responsible man for economic and financial policy in Vienna is called Sepp Rieder, a former health city council who, like Kreml propaganda, tries to turn over this malaise by announcing it. I don't want to bore you there, but he's in the... [[Abg. Parnigoni: But you do!]] I will not read this to you, but come to the facts, Mr President. He has made seven press conferences alone, and he is not afraid to use some wrong figures. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your own group already has a painful face!]] In fact, he should be grateful to Mr Bartenstein, for it is the organization of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, namely the Austrian Business Agency, which, when farms come, brings these enterprises to Vienna and certainly not the Vienna Economic Fund. While the Federal Government has implemented a tax reform, an administrative reform and a pension reform, the Wiener SPÖ has, on the other hand polemized and rejected this. [[Abg. Riepl: unemployed makes the Federal Government!]] You have rejected the tax reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What does Mr Matznetter do? – It makes an economic programme of tax increase. He dreams of a reduction in working time at full wage compensation, speaks of the machine tax, he may still be talking about wealth tax and inheritance tax. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. The highest tax rate!]] All these things are discussed within the Vienna SPÖ. And you wonder that investors are thinking about whether Vienna is really the right place?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of what the Federal Government has achieved and the fact that the performance of this Federal Government's economic policy abroad is great remains only a short summary, which reads as follows: [[Abg. Sburny: What's the matter? Austrian regions!]] The government is running, the Vienna city government is penetrating. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to tell you from my own experience: The Vienna Economic Fund has made a presentation of Vienna in Brussels. They were all high-ranking Ladies and gentlemen in Brussels, I happened to be in Brussels and I thought I had to look at that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Let me tell you this briefly, you should know that too, maybe you can help us change something there to make the whole thing more efficient and transparent. No word from those responsible for tax reform in Vienna, no word on the question of group taxation, no word on foreign comments, which the Austrian Federal Government has achieved, was to be heard. I talked to Mr Mayor about this. There has been a presentation of two companies within the framework of this event, free of charge according to the motto: Show your friends! This company has not known anyone, but in Brussels it has been presented by the Managing Director of the Vienna Economic Fund. I spoke to the mayor afterwards and asked him how he was doing. He said: Well, that's a...! After I'm here in the high house and I want to save myself a call for order, I have to write it this way: When mothers talk about babies who have digestive disorders, they're talking about a boy. So Mr. Mayor said to the whole thing: Well, that's a...! You know. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] At the same time, I tell you, the Wiener SPÖ is pleased, thanks to Walter Nettig, that we are receiving an American bank, namely the Western Union Financial Services Bank, to Vienna. But I have the presumption that this should only divert from the actual Drama Bank Austria CA. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask you: What happens when an entrepreneur puts a million in the sand? – He'll probably have a huge problem if he doesn't go bankrupt. What happens when a manager puts 10 million in the sand? What happens when a manager puts 100 million in the sand? Or: What happens when a manager puts 1 billion in the sand? – 1 billion would mean: The manager is gone, the whole team is gone and probably also the Supervisory Board. The mayor, who goes through this country in this living “Putinism”, says that it is all the other people’s fault. There's old Hans Mayr's fault, it's even used to privatize Bernhard Görg, who just said the bank belonged. Remember: Once there was the Central Savings Bank, ladies and gentlemen, there was the Landesbank and the Creditanstalt Bankverein. Everything's gone! It is now being found in Milan, and this is the work of Mr Mayor. And there's no one asking: What's going on? That's where you sleep in the pendulum watch and don't wonder?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: What does the government do?]] The worst disaster in this century's economic policy will be the responsibility of the mayor, Mr Häupl, and you will be silent and say that nothing can be done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now there are many who think, Vienna is great and Vienna works great. I am also of this opinion, but unfortunately God costs everything very much money, and it is all very expensive, and that is homemade. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I would just like to remind you of the following – you will know that too –: ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website At that time the field was not playable because of ice and snow. Clearly, Vienna is the only city in Europe where you cannot heat the lawn. Then we had 30. ==References====External links== That's it again with the Ice doesn't work, ladies and gentlemen! And then there was a marathon in mid-May...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e4996	The final sentence, Mr Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5011	And at this marathon one has realized that the sports city of Vienna is no longer the sports city we would like to have. That's why I'm glad...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5033	Mr President, we agreed to a final sentence at the President-in-Office's Conference. You've spoken to them. Your speaking time is over! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the representatives of the Freeman, please take the opportunity to refer to his seat. Dr. Ferdinand Maier.]] For a preliminary opinion on the subject, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, Dr Bartenstein, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5066	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The theme of the current hour is: ‘Economic policy for Austria’. One might think that Austria as an 8 million country must have an interest and also has an interest in a single economic area, especially in a larger Europe, which is probably the largest single market in this world. Nevertheless, it is not one of the issues of Easter enlargement to the Burgenland, for example, Schengen and the Swiss vote on Vorarlberg, whether what is going on in Slovenia is more relevant to Carinthia or what is going on in Germany, Mr Ambassador, may be more concerned with Salzburg and Upper Austria than other German states and regions. Our regions and federal states are structured differently, and it is therefore good that there is a mix of federal economic policies that take account of the specificities of the regions, and of an economic policy which the countries make of their own zoning and essentially also with their own money for the country. And this mix works well. Let me begin by saying: I do not know exactly with which arguments Vienna was applied for in Brussels and whether – I am sorry – the real assets of Austria, for example the tax relief of companies and our location qualities, were sufficiently presented. But, in general, cooperation between the Federal Government and the countries in terms of common economic policy works very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier referred to something that is in fact in Austria: There is a gap in the labour market, there are countries like Upper Austria with de facto full employment, the industrial core country of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a country with an excellent medium-sized economy, a country with a healthy large, previously national economy, a country with healthy and good economic policies and a country with an export rate of far more than 25 percent. Full employment is the result. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What about the Styria?]] On the other hand, there is the federal capital, which is more difficult for various reasons, because more people are moving here than elsewhere, because there are other topics in agglomerations, because in some ways one does not do so easily. Vienna has over 9 percent, almost three times as much, unemployment rate. And it is a matter of course that the internal solidarity balance works, that more money is spent on the labour market administration for Vienna, and that it may even transfer know-how from Upper Austria to Vienna. And, ladies and gentlemen, this solidarity balance, for example in labour market policy, works as part of economic policy. While Upper Austria – Mr. Klubobmann – you come from there – has 51 long-term unemployed throughout the country – these are those people who are unemployed for more than a year – within just one year, it has succeeded in reducing the long-term unemployment rate by more than two thirds, namely by 71 percent. And this is the success of the Federal AMS. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Maier mentioned the plus 38 percent of training resources. It is good that Vienna as the labour market with the relatively biggest problems gets relatively more resources. I thank you for the solidarity of the federal states. Finally, it is the local policy of this country that enables Vienna to offer more in terms of headquarters than it used to be. Central and Eastern Europe, the opening of the East, the enlargement of the EU give opportunities for this. The Austrian Business Agency – Ferry Maier has mentioned this – has communicated to Vienna no less than half of all the operations of the last year, namely 48 sites made out of 107 – in good cooperation with the funding offices of the country of Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A second example: a country affected by a severe structural crisis in the heavy industry, which was then nationalized, namely, my Styria, in the 1980s. Today the Styria is another flourishing industrial core country of Austria, a country in which the Mur-Mürz-Furche stands not only for a dead, dying industrial region characterized by unemployment, but, as Claus Raidl, one of the top managers of this country, said in Bad Aussee a few days ago, for the world class to go there: Tent path: the soft, Donawitz: the rails, Kapfenberg and further stainless steel top ventures. Where were they some years ago? – It has succeeded in setting up the necessary structural measures, together with the Federal Government, to make an industrial region of world classification from a problem region as a whole. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Elsewhere in Styria, not so much with the focus on Mur-Mürz-Furche, but with the focus on Graz: the development of the car cluster. There was nothing there 15 years ago. 11 years ago, we started developing Autocluster – my colleague Herbert Paierl, head of state Waltraud Klasnic, the mothers and fathers of this Autocluster. Today, there are 44 000 jobs that would otherwise not exist. Sales amounted to €6.8 billion. The Steiermark Autocluster is something one speaks of in Detroit, in the automotive centers of Japan and elsewhere. He is a particularly remarkable industrial policy activity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nothing comes from anything, neither the industrial restructuring of the Mur-Mürz-Furche nor the Autocluster, for which one has to work, and for that one has to invest in research and development, and that this is not only happening in Vienna and elsewhere, but also in Austria's regions, proves the Styria. I would not have thought that the Styria was the number one whole of Austria, according to a statistics of Statistics Austria, which may not always, but mostly right, with 3.67 percent F&E-Quote in 2002. There is little wonder, then, if the country of Styria can point out that last year, in 2004, it was the federal state of Austria, in which unemployment has declined most. It was minus 4.1 percent, and thus the Styria is also the number one in Austria in this area. In terms of growth – we have read these figures a few weeks ago – it can be said on the basis of industrial restructuring that the largest regional economic power was in this federal state, which was really very problematic 15, 20 years ago. Now there is an increase of 3.8 percent, almost double what we have brought together in Germany and Europe. – I congratulate Steiermark! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A third example, because this was also mentioned by the honourable Member, Mr Maier: the Burgenland. – The Burgenland was border country, there was little going on, there was great concern that at the east opening the problems would be even greater than smaller. It was fully successful to structure the Burgenland as a Objective 1 country, but the uncertainty was a great one, but the Burgenland became a country due to the excellent cooperation between federal economic policy and national policy, which today is called by the Wifo as a total that is the winner of the eastern opening – Austria as a whole is the winner within the European Union – and which has achieved no less than an average of 3.1 percent growth in the years 1995 to 2003, while Austria has reached an average of 2.1 percent. This was achieved by an excellent federal economic policy that supported the country's activities. Let us think, for example, of the co-financing which is not and has not been insignificant in the framework of Objective 1 funding. If Mr Landeshauptmann's representative now comes to me as the responsible economic council and says that he wants to put one more thing on it now, he wants to see that in the years 2005 and 2006, also because from 2007 onwards “Objective 1” will be marked with a question mark and, secondly, the funding landscape from 2007 onwards will be another, mobilising the Burgenland and also we resources, which may not be spent at all, then I say: Mr Landeshauptmann-Representative, we will examine this very, very carefully, and we will have a result over the next few weeks in relation to the 100 million € package that Franz Steindl has requested for the Burgenland in the last few days. This is a useful thing which I would like to support, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thus, a federal economic policy for Austria has been seen to strengthen the strengths of the regions of Austria and to remove weaknesses when it comes to solving problems, with a high level of commonness. This is happening at negotiating tables, on which party policy does not play a role at all, and we are working very, very well with all the federal states, I do not want to put any of this in front of the curtain. The results are sometimes different, but I am proud that this cooperation is a good one. And if Vienna in Brussels also speaks well about Austria's location policy, then I will be even more pleased, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5156	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. The debate opens up to Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5180	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing the regional economy today, I believe that we are already beginning to say that Austria as a whole is an excellent economic location, and to this end the Federal Government is to congratulate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A consistent budgetary policy has succeeded in creating the scope for making Austria attractive by means of a tax reform. Because I see the Ambassador here at the gallery, I would like to note – you forgive me for saying so – that: It has succeeded in decoupling the Austrian economy from the German economy. It has succeeded to benefit from enlargement. Every second job in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, today depends directly or indirectly on export. And this is a great success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: That's ridiculous when you say: Disconnect from Germany! 70 percent of exports go to Germany! What are you doing?- Oh, my God!]] But there are, of course, differences in the locations in Austria – I know that you are upset – and the Federal Minister has already referred to this. [[new calls to the SPÖ]] Let's look at economic growth! [[The speaker holds a graphic note with the title: “Economic 2004 by federal states”.]] These are already very important data you have to take to hand. For example, we can see that Styria is at the forefront with an economic growth of 3.8 percent. This is a great success of the Styrian government under the leadership of Captain Waltraud Klasnic! You know, I regret that I have to say that, but if you look at the very bottom of this table, what economic growth is going on, then you will find countries that are governed by social democrats in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Vienna can be found there with an economic growth of unfortunately only 0.6 percent. And the Burgenland is at the end of this scale with a growth rate of only 0.5 percent. That is unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen. – Here I am entirely of the opinion of the top candidate of the Vienna ÖVP: Vienna can do more, ladies and gentlemen, than what is being offered here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is not only economic growth that characterizes my federal state, there are also other factors that are essential. Let us, for example, look at the research rate in Styria! We are also at the top of Austria at 3.67 percent. The Federal average is 2.19 percent, and the average within the European Union is only 2.1%. Our wife Landeshuptmann succeeded – and this is of enormous importance for the location of Styria – in bringing the Wirtschaftstrieck Wien–Linz–Graz together with Mr Landeshuptmann Pröll and the Federal Chancellor into implementation, which is extremely important for the economic location. Something else – I would like to address this because it is really necessary to make politics with heart and competence; that is what is asked, ladies and gentlemen! –: Our head of state Waltraud Klasnic has also shown how to do it in quite, very difficult situations: Do not put the head in the sand, but work for the country day and night. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: She doesn't need to put her head in the sand, because she's in the sand as a whole!]] In very dramatic crisis situations, for example in the pit accident in Lassing, but also in economic problems, for example, when it looked like the Spielberg project was not going to happen in the short term, you could experience it: Do not put your head in the sand, work day and night for the country, and then there is a positive result, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP. - Abg. Silhavy holds a bag with the image of a hand that with two fingers forms a “V” and with the inscription “Forward! Voves! SPÖ’ in height.]] Good thing you're showing this! Many will not know: The First Head of State in Styria is called Voves; therefore, this “V” of yours. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This “V” has also used Viktor climate, and it has not done him well, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] You win elections when you work for the country. The First Head of State in Styria is well-known for many things, such as the fact that it contributes 98 percent of all government decisions, but then criticizes them. He is also known for having once been a very good hockey player, and he is also known for having problems with millions who have disappeared from the SPÖ-led community of Frohnleiten, but for one thing he is really not known: that he would work a lot. [[new calls to the SPÖ]] He's not known for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: How was that? Who had the supervision in Frohnleiten?]] If now, with the Spielberg project, 150 million € flow into the Upper Murtal, if by means of the security...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5346	Mr Kogler, you cannot make calls out of the first series. I call Mr Amon.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5377	Thank you, Mr President. – If more than €10 million flow into this region by securing the tentway site, if you look at the enormous economic development in the Upper Murtal through the wooden cluster or the Autocluster, then you know – Mr President, this is my final sentence! – that the government team with Waltraud Klasnic at the top, with Hermann Schützenhofer and Gerald Creator, with Hans Seizinger and Kristina Edlinger-Ploder is an excellent team that does the country well, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Silhavy: Your time is over!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Oh, you! Oh, you!]] [[Call the SPÖ: The speaking time is over!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5476	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5498	Nice morning to the spectators in front of the televisions at home! Mr President. High house! Behind me you see the Minister of Records: [[the speaker addresses the Minister of State, Dr Bartenstein, who is sitting on the government bank]] He is the Minister for Record Unemployment, and he is the Minister for Recording. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you've heard the two ÖVP fighters here, so to speak, talking about Vienna and Styria, I have to say: There is already a lot to be corrected! I have looked at the unemployment statistics and can say: Vienna is the only federal country where unemployment declined by 2.3 percentage points in June. [[Abg. Hornek: Because she's so high!]] Do you know in which countries the unemployment rate has increased the highest? – In Vorarlberg, in Tyrol and in Styria. In these three federal states, the unemployment rate rose the highest in June! That's the reality! [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is scandalous!]] They always talk about the past – we talk about the SPÖ, on the other hand, about the future. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank you, Mrs. Klasnic!]] If you look at the state of Vienna in international rankings, you can see – this is also the latest Empire study – that Vienna has an international view of 26. This is also the most widespread, by far, in front of all the other regions of Austria. According to a Eurostat statistics on the richest regions of Europe, Vienna is seventh in Europe. So I don't know. Was this now the Floridsdorfer perspective, which you gave the best from the ÖVP here, i.e. a limited perspective of Vienna, or was this also a limited Styrian perspective? Anyway, that wasn't the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to remind you, Minister of State Bartenstein: You are responsible for 211,000 unemployed in June in Austria! That is about 8,000 more than in the previous year! Do you know how many 8,000 unemployed are more? – This is about in the order of the population of my birthplace Weiz! 8,000 more than in the previous year! 8,000 people no longer have a job – and you are responsible, Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, are also responsible for the biggest record of pleas that has ever occurred in our country: In the first half of the year, 3 600 companies went bankrupt! There has never been that in our country! And for that too. You're responsible, Minister! Do you know where there have been most pleas? – In Vorarlberg, in Lower Austria and in Tirol. Not in Vienna, not in Burgenland, but in Vorarlberg, in Lower Austria and in Tirol. There has been the greatest increase of pleas there, i.e. in federal states governed by the ÖVP! And do you know what the cause of these pleas was and is? – They drive unemployed people into self-employment by this federal government; more than a quarter of these new formations are taken over by the unemployed, and precisely these often go well! They are not only driving these people into unemployment, into self-employment, but also into a personal debt trap! This is your policy that is falling to the head of the Austrians! That's not responsible, Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since 2000, they have promised us that the economy will grow, but: This growth is not coming, there is not! Only last Friday, the main institutions have reversed economic forecasts from 2 to 1.7 percent. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Amon: Is that not growth?]] So this is in the long-term average. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] If you call it “success” by the government parties with their three economic programmes, I do not know what you have! Our conviction is that this is, in any case, far too little! 211 000 unemployed – this is too much for Austria! In addition, you say that you have launched a favourable tax reform for large companies: Do you know what the result is? – Yes, the record winnings are okay, but the dividend distributions at this level are not okay anymore! And at the expense of the workers at all! Only the manager salaries rise, just too dramatic! I figured that out. The Director-General of the First Bank, Treichl, collects an annual budget of €4.5 million. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want businesses that don't issue dividends? That's interesting!]] Do you even know, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, how long, for example, should a cashier work for the first? – 120 years to obtain income such as the annual salary of their Director-General, by the way, a former ÖVP cashier! You think that's fair? [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] We believe that this is not fair! We cannot represent such a thing!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5677	Member of the European Parliament, the lamp at the speaker's desk does not work: You still have a minute's speaking time, and I'll ring. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5693	Since the federal states have already been so strongly stressed here today: 33 post offices were closed in Styria, as were 25 army posts. Further: Company closures by selling, for example, the Austrian tobacco plant in Fürstenfeld; the sale of VA Tech threatens to cause the Weiz site to suffer massively. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Further: Two major projects were muttered in Styria. I refer in this context only to the Semmering Base Tunnel: You know how long you need to travel from Vienna to Graz – more than two and a half hours! From Vienna to Linz only one hour forty! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In the Styria there are the highest electricity prices! Read the newspapers: Mr President-in-Office Draxler of the RHI has said that he will no longer invest in Styria because there are the highest electricity prices there! That's your policy! This is a child's regional policy – and you are responsible for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You live on the moon! The electricity prices have been lowered!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we are observing here in our country, we can only call it a narrow-track economy, a narrow-track economy, in which both the number of unemployed and the record arguments are increasing, in which the regions are economically diluted! [[Abg. Grandruck: A pattern country in Europe!]] People have no more prospects! And that's what you're responsible for! If we discuss a business package again today, I ask you: Why have the previous economic packages not taken hold? – Because You only made client policy for large corporations, for large land owners and for your rural clientele! [[Abg. Steibl: Why is the SPÖ against everything? Why is the SPÖ just squatting?]] This does not benefit most of the Austrians – and you will feel it in the next elections! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5786	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5807	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If I refer briefly to Mr Moser's speech, I must say: Mr Moser obviously lives in a different world. Many realities seem to pass without any trace. He does not know at all how Austria is internationally positioned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that it would also be good for an opposition party such as SPÖ to pay tribute to what Austria has brought forward in international comparison – instead of always trying to make the economic location of Austria and the Austrian labour market worse. Ladies and gentlemen! We know we're not living in a simple time. Austria's most important trading partner is not too good if I think only of Germany and Italy, and this also has, of course, an impact on Austria and its regions. We have an increase in the labour force, which is an increase in the labour force, which is much higher than the increase in employment. In this context, I would point out that in Austria as many people have never been in employment as they are at present. Allow I would also like to say: In the meantime, some 45 000 workers from the Federal Republic of Germany are employed in Austria. I am saying this because I think it is inconceivable a few years ago. It would be worth noting that, to such an extent, German workers can be found in Austria. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, a Baden-Württemberg Landtagsdelegation has visited us here in the house, and I would like to present at this point what was very significant yesterday – at least for me: There was an exchange of views. My idea was, of course, that this is a mutual exchange of thoughts, but that has not proved true. Our guests wanted information about the Austrian track of success – and that of representatives of a German state, which is certainly very, very well positioned within Germany, that is, it is surely in a leading position within Germany. They have shown their interest in the Austrian way in the development of state finances, the development on the labour market, the development of Austria as an international economic location, and they wanted – and this is also important because this is the prerequisite for this Austrian path of success – also know how Austria has undertaken and achieved the implementation of the important and important reforms. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think we can be really proud. The last five years of government work by ÖVP and the liberals have been very positive despite poor economic development in the international comparison. Austria is the most cost-effective way to achieve what is reaching the continental European locations. Research expenditure increased from 2.19 percent of gross domestic product to 2.27 percent. An analysis of the location of the German “manager magazine” concludes that Austria has also experienced a position improvement in the ranking of the top locations for high technology. Austria is, like me, well positioned. This depends on the consistent implementation of the projects set out in the government programme. This has an impact on our tax rate, which could now be reduced to 41.5 percent, which has an impact on purchasing power parities. All the successes recorded in the Austrian regions result on the one hand from initiatives taken by the respective regions and, on the other, from the consistent economic and location policy of the Federal Government, which creates the ideal conditions for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5869	At the speaker's desk, a technician steps in and repairs the clock in 10 seconds. Mrs Sburny has now reached the speaker's desk for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e5893	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am somewhat surprised at the contributions to the debates that have been made here in part. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is nothing new with you!]] The theme of this “current hour”, introduced by the ÖVP, is – I have selected it in addition –: ‘Economic policy for Austria’. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Exactly!]] If you are preparing yourself as an opposition politician for a “current hour” with this topic, you will also consider what will be discussed. It is assumed that the government will celebrate its “success, ” celebrate up and down, and somehow prepare for it. I have to say, I was prepared for a lot. I thought that perhaps the new agricultural support will come up, perhaps something will come up with a tax reform, which will justify what you are doing with it for the Austrian regions, something like this. – But nothing comes from it! What you are doing here is not even a country election campaign in Parliament, because election campaign would be somehow positive, it has something else. But not even that's it anymore. Blank populism is what you're spreading here, and I really think that's last-class! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The head of this matter has reached Mr Amon in his remarks. It starts with his saying: We succeeded in decoupling us from the politics of Germany. So I'm really wondering, Do you have any idea where our exports are going? Do you have any idea? – About 70 percent of our exports – we do not argue for a single percentage – go to Germany! And that's what you're talking about disconnection? That's really weird. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Second point: The Styria, you claim, is a top rider economic style. – Yes, if you are in the back, it’s easy to come forward a little bit. But fact is that when you look at yourself... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] You can also use other numbers for comparison. If you take GDP per capita, here the Styria remains far behind in the Austrian section, in the third or fourth lowest place. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] That is, with numbers you can do a lot. You can put everything in the room – it's just not right! What would really be asked here would be: What is the Federal Government doing and what are you doing as an EIA Group to actually strengthen the regions of Austria? In this context, I would just like to speak on one, two points. Point 1 of the Eco electricity Act. From our point of view, the 2002 Ecostrom Act has already had some significant mistakes, namely with regard to the regional economy. For example, the photovoltaic was covered. For countries like the Burgenland – if we are already in the election campaign – this was not funny at the time, because the photovoltaic industry in Burgenland is simply an essential regional industry that could be used there, but was restricted in this way. With the renewable energy innovation, which is now in place and which has still not been decided, you have managed to achieve a complete blockade for new plants for half a year. Due to the fact that you play Pingpong between the federal government and the countries and never end this game, no new plant in the field of renewable energy can be approved for half a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] And that's where you're talking about regional economy?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Molterer: And why are so many built?]] They prefer to invest in oil imports – 80 billion per year in oil imports in Austria – instead of seeing how this added value could be brought to Austria. This would be very possible with plants, with small installations for renewable energies. You only need to get out of your blockade policy once. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Ask yourself, you have no idea!]] The second small area – at the end – is the employment summit. I am not saying now that everything is bad from this employment summit. The research investment is certainly good in principle. That it works in this way, how you imagine it, I'm less sure. Above all, there are always large speech bubbles, as far as the sums are concerned – but very much is just re-examination. I would like to mention a small example, which is so beautiful, because you always say you are investing. Mr Bartenstein! At this employment summit you claimed that you want to invest €15 million as an employment initiative for women in the field of crafts and technology. For three years, this would affect 2 000 women, which is about €2 500 per woman per year. Sounds good, just: At the same time, you have removed the same funds from a Graz project already under way, namely the Graz project “FiT – Women in Technology”! – And that’s what you call “investment”!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6008	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Your speaking time, Mrs Colleague, is also 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6030	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Economic policy in Austria is more successful than ever! Our German neighbours look at our results with envy. ==References====External links== June of this year it says: “Why Austria is the top. Less unemployed, more economic growth, better mood.” – Quotes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, our economic policy focuses on supporting the regions. As a Burgenlander, I can say that exactly. As a result of the initiatives and courageous reforms of the Federal Government, structures have been broken down and important changes have been set in motion. [[Abg. Riepl: Why do we have more and more unemployed people?]] Much remains to be done – that is already clear – but the structural change has been clearly initiated in Burgenland. The main responsibility for this is the promotion of Objective 1 and also the opening of the East. This made it very, very possible in the ten years. Among other things, we have established businesses and additional jobs have been created. One thing needs to be kept clear and clear: One of the most important partners of the Burgenland is the Republic of Austria, the Federation. In 2004 alone, the federal government supported the country of Burgenland with a total of €581 million, and that is great. This has made many projects possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These € 581 million – you have to imagine – are as much money as two thirds of the total national budget. To give just one example: In 2002, there was an additional €30 million for an additional programme, and today we can refer to many projects that are now completed, the therapy center, for example, the building of room units at the health centre Bad Sauerbrunn, but also the international sports resort in Güssing. It is precisely these projects that have made the Burgenland attractive. I can tell Landesführer Niessl and SPÖ in Burgenland that the funds are empty, only guess to end the confrontation course with the Federal Government and finally to pursue constructive policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Burgenland there are many challenges to care about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] For example, the counterpart ratio is still unchanged. Every third Burgenländer must commute, most of it to Vienna. GDP per head is 30 percent below the Austrian average. But also with the purchasing power, the Burgenland is still the final light. And – and this is also to be mentioned – the Burgenland under a red head of state is the end of the unemployment rate. We want to end this failure course. The ÖVP-Burgenland has also developed a concrete project, a financing model. A central part of this financing model is the Burgenlander Zukunftsfonds. This future fund is spent at €300 million and is being worked on with the annual revenues that are to be made up of about €10 million. Which projects do we want to start with? – There should be an action to create jobs for young people. There should be an action to encourage entrepreneurs to recruit apprentices. They do not know how difficult it is for young people in Burgenland to find a teaching place or even a decent job and a job. [[Abg. Reheis: This is your federal policy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Tell the bowl and the beardstone!]] We also want to launch the “Regional offensive” action in order to continue to set up businesses and to be truly modern and fit here. The proposals of the EIA-Burgenland, ladies and gentlemen, are on the table. We want to work – the SPÖ does not want that! The SPÖ in Burgenland is in charge, has called for elections early. I say: Whoever doesn't want to work, let him stay. – We are definitely ready!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6130	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6152	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand the euphoria of your economic policy which you are spreading. First of all, Mr Bartenstein, the Federal Minister, who has referred to the additional funding. I mean, we can agree that this is not a gift from Bartenstein to Steindl. – It is your duty to compensate for the disadvantages suffered by the Burgenland by enlargement with tax money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My predecessor spoke about the unemployed in Burgenland. I would just like to point out that it was your federal policy that destroyed 1,500 jobs in Burgenland and that in return, the Burgenland has created 9 000 jobs in the last ten years! Their policy is a hunger of the regions, and this, of course, causes people and businesses to migrate. They take a billion € away from the municipalities by 2007, and of course this amount is also missing directly from the regional economy and employees in the regions. With your centralist federal procurement, you push the small companies to the wall, which means jobs. It is not your job to pursue corporate policy, Mr Federal Minister, but your task is to balance the weaknesses of the regions and weaknesses of small businesses. In the end, their economic policy means nothing more than the highest number of unemployed people, which means that public investment is the last thing to do with income. At the same time, you do not object to the fact that illegal employment is restricted or the establishment of sham companies is reduced. You, Mr Federal Minister, also gave the Burgenland a four times as high number as in 1999. This will not benefit the region of the Burgenland. The same applies to your European policy, where you are trying to advance enlargement at the pace, including Turkey. This fact will present us with new problems. What is important to us is to stabilise and deepen the Europe of the 25 in order to create a social Europe. A positive counterpart to your neoliberal economic policy is the policy in the Burgenland, where head of state Niessl and his team make a successful, human policy. Just a few headliners to do this: The gross regional product has increased by 4.5 percent annually since 1996 – a value that is not elsewhere available throughout Austria. There is a massive increase in support for small and medium-sized enterprises – as already mentioned: 9 000 jobs in addition in the last ten years – 15 percent more expenditure for hospitals, 20 percent more care facilities. I could continue this list for a long time. – All this, ladies and gentlemen, with five budgets in series without new debt! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am sure that SPÖ's Burgenland Fund will secure this good policy for the future. He will contribute to strengthening the economy in Burgenland and creating jobs in Burgenland. In contrast, it is the future fund of the ÖVP, which only aims to sell housing promotion – with the result that one takes the money from the house-keepers and threatens 11 000 jobs in the construction and construction sector, Mrs Colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic]] Federal Minister! A good economic policy needs Not to invent you – look into Burgenland!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6234	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. She too speaks for five minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6255	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! It is about the economic development of the regions. Austria is well prepared as an economic location, because together with the Federal Government, we have done a great deal that Austria stands well as an economic location. There have been economic packages, there has been the biggest tax reform – all of this has contributed to an increased attractiveness of Austria as an economic location, so that the competitive advantage can be better used. Large institutions such as the IMF or the OECD also confirm to us that in this area we have clearly achieved an improvement that our economic packages and tax reform have caused Austria to be better located as an economic location. The economy and investment in a country, ladies and gentlemen, also have to do with psychology. And psychologically speaking, you have to say that only in a country where the mood is good. And if there are forces in this country that do everything bad, do everything down, then it is much more difficult for investors to really invest in this country when colleagues like you say, for example, that it is all so terrible that everything is so bad in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser]] It is clear that we have achieved that Austria is better than Germany, That is to say, we have a bourgeois government that works for businesses and the economy. In Germany, a red-green government has led to much more unemployment and a poorer economic situation. This has to be said out loud again and again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] - Wait, we're still coming to Carinthia. Austria does a lot. We have made a broadband initiative, we invest a billion in research and development, which enables us to secure many jobs. We are putting more money into the infrastructure, which brings 18 000 new employees back on the way through profitability. I mean, these are also important figures that show how much the Federal Government invests for the population in Austria. Individual federal states use these location factors, these good framework conditions best and optimally so that they can achieve much in their country. For example, Carinthia has taken a lot of money into its hands, the mortgage bank has capitalized and has an additional 100 million € annually to invest. And there are large companies that invest in Carinthia, such as Magna, and no longer say: Let's stay in the Styria, but they'll do something in Carinthia. As a steward, I'm sorry to congratulate the Carinthians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But that also has something to do with psychology, with the mood in the individual federal states. Let us remember what the mood in Styria looks like, from a psychological point of view, for investment. Mr Amon is no longer in the hall, but he cannot speak about everything here, because the Styria has only been noticed by scandals in recent years. Although the car cluster is still being highlighted, I have to say that was a councillor – he is now no longer in this function, but has been relocated as a car supplier, is now active there and no longer in the state government. He has built up the car cluster in the Styria and achieved a lot – but that is history. Another national council responsible for a huge project, namely for the A1-ring in the Obersteiermark, is no longer available in the meantime – we all know that – either. He was transferred to the EStAG, there revealed scandals that there was wasted money and sluggished by ÖVP and SPÖ – there is no way to take the SPÖ out, because there were many things on both sides. That was revealed. Thank you very much for the fact that this man is no longer in office, but the ÖVP has to deal with him in the election campaign anyway. To the jubilation: Hurra, we have a project of 150 million in Spielberg!, I can only say: That's better than nothing, but please don't forget that there was a 500 million project there! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] It must also be pointed out that 500 million had been invested in the Obersteiermark, that an extra training rail was intended for the Obersteiermark. The people in this region would have needed this, because there are few jobs there, and there are a lot of companies out there, where the mood is quite, very bad. People there would have deserved a bigger, better project, but this was, we know, clearly covered up in the state government by ÖVP councils. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I'll write this to you in the main book. Don't talk all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6350	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 5 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6371	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! High house! In fact, we have today, on the basis of the “Economic Policy for Austria” programme, turned to a government performance view. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Something strangely unstructured has come out, we can't actually see red thread. That is why I am now going to start at the front and talk about what a region is like, how the regions in Austria are even ordered. Austria is a very small structured country, with...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6395	I ask you to lower the general level of noise!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6411	... very different landscape and economic conditions. But it must also be noted that the gap is growing – the gap between peripheral structurally weak regions and growing, prosperous regions, the gap between communities on transit corridors and municipalities that are no longer connected with public transport. It increases the gap between the regions with intensive tourism and development pressure in the still untouched neighborhood and those who no longer have a share of tourist services. It also increases the gap between urban and surrounding areas and between inner urban peripheries. We also have the tendency to break down in the inner urban area, where entire urban regions are broken. What does that have to do with? Why is the gap getting bigger? – We have the high-level transport infrastructure as a trend enhancer. A new Swiss study shows that the expansion of high-level transport infrastructure strengthens the concentration of production and services and prefers agglomerations. - We know. The connection of regions to high-level transport networks does not lead to a shift in development for the region, but rather – on the contrary – it upgrades the central areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A good example of this: Since the extension of the motorway, the gap between the Salzburg Lungau and the Salzburg Central Area has increased. Migration has become stronger. This acts as a sucker for the people who are well qualified, leaving the people who are not as mobile as for example people who have children to raise, or older people in the regions. In these regions, however, the quality of supply has deteriorated somewhat. We have been calling for the introduction of a traffic trigger for years. Even State Secretary Kukacka has to admit at the last meeting of the Transport Committee that this municipal tax, which is intended as a steering charge, does not work at all because the municipalities cannot use it because they fear a location disadvantage. That is why we have proposed that there should be such a uniform federal regime or one within the framework of national legislation – that has so far been missed. That's a shame. Second point: We have been calling for sustainable settlement development for years. Compact settlements with public transport connections are to be created and non-franct settlements causing severe costs for the municipalities and worsening the quality of supply. We also perceive a concentration of supply at a few locations – that is no news. The structural change in trade leads to a concentration on increasingly fewer and less locations in a transport-friendly position, leading to buy-out power outflows from the regions and to a decrease in the overall supply structure. Some figures from the Salzburg food trade: In Salzburg there is now – at present – a million square meters of sales space, which is around 300 000 square meters more than ten years ago, but there is a decline in the district regions; Purchasing power flow from the Pinzgau, for example. Throughout Austria, there are 270 000 inhabitants who no longer have local services – no local care – according to the Institut RegioPlan, from 2000, 320 municipalities. That's not a show of performance, it's a witness of poverty! The gap is getting bigger – in view of this fact, it seems strange that the individual federal states are delivering a match here, who has a little less growth in the unemployed and who is somewhat better off moving... [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6484	The final sentence, honourable Member!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6499	Thank you, Mr President, for responding from the rural regions. We must encourage the regions to give such examples as Upper Austria with GMO-free regions because this really strengthens the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6527	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[10:10:49]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6548	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2797/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6695	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply to Question No 2886/J by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues on the Annual Veterinary Report 2004 to carry out slaughter and meat investigations by the Federal Minister for Health and Women. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6720	The debate on points 2 to 4, 5 and 6, 14 and 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6746	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free Parliament Club 108 minutes as well as Green 117 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debate from 10.10 a.m. to 1 p.m., transmitted by the ORF: First of all, a word by the Federal Chancellor with 20 minutes, then one word per group with 12 minutes, another word by the Vice-President with 10 minutes, then one word per group with 8 minutes, another word by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs with 8 minutes, then one word per group with 5 minutes, then a word by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs with 5 minutes, and finally one word per group of 5 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the remaining speaking time will be equally distributed between the President-in-Office of the Council and the political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after 1 p.m., i.e. after the end of the television broadcast. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – Consent is unanimous. We shall therefore proceed in this way. [[10:13:24]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the subject: ‘European Union and appointment of a Secretary of State for the EU Presidency’
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6795	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e6823	Mr President. High house! We are currently facing one of the biggest challenges facing the European Union. After three major tasks, which I believe have been dealt with perfectly – the introduction of the euro two and a half years ago, the implementation and implementation of enlargement by ten new Member States, including four of our neighbouring countries, and a new Treaty, which was perhaps referred to as the ‘European Constitution’, but which is nevertheless a very important step forward – it is clear that the last project is in the waiting loop and at the same time the mood has fallen dramatically in relation to Europe. I think there is a need to maintain this, because now the great task and the great question mark of Turkey is coming to this – accession or not accession, the start of the negotiations. All of this together seems to overpower the European population and to trigger a counter-wind of public opinion on the so important issue of Europe and the future of Europe. Especially on the topic of Turkey, it shows how true the Austrian line actually was. From the beginning, in December, when the decision for the start of the negotiations was taken, we have always insisted that we need alternatives that there can not only be an automatic approach, Article 57, but also that other options should be seriously examined and considered by us as a priority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] We have always insisted that there must be open negotiations with an open objective that at the same time the harsh conditions – common values as set out in the Copenhagen criteria – must be met and fulfilled, but that the European Union's capacity to accept itself must be one of the most decisive admission criteria for a new country of a size similar to Turkey. And we're right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have insisted on a tailor-made solution here. It is interesting to note that at the time it was 1 : 24, but today more and more countries and, of course, the majority of the European population are turning to this line because it is reasonable. Thank you for the SPÖ supporting this position as I heard today. I think it is positive that we can find a common consensus here almost all the political parties. But that also means, of course, that we should start negotiations, because one thing is clear: It is in our interest to use Turkey's own standards which aim at safeguarding and increasing human rights standards when there is good governance, legal security, institution building in the European sense. This is good for Turkey itself – they do not please us – but it is also good for us, because it significantly increases the area of security, freedom and human rights, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Why is Europe currently having such great resonance problems, particularly in public opinion? – Andrei Pleşu – he was Foreign Minister of Romania when I was Foreign Minister of Austria; two years ago, by the way, he was the festival speaker at the Salzburg Festival – a remarkable article written from his experience as a Romanian, one who experienced Communism and recognized the horrors of an ideology, of an independent ideology – I think it was in the “FAZ” or in the “South German” –: “For a long time, we have been content to be silent and relaxed witnesses of a dangerous development. Europe has become an ideology. We, here in the East, still remind ourselves of what devastating effects the transformation of a thought, a belief in an ideology,..., into a... Schema, can be in a fixed idea. Ideology is a form of bureaucracy of thought.” And further: “... the regulation of optimism..., the rule of administration and accounting simply cannot create a convincing portrait of Europe – neither for the members nor for the candidates. Europe, or the European Union, must hurry and find its organic freshness, its naturalness and its human dimension. Otherwise, she is in danger of suffocating under a mountain of Doss.” I continue to quote: “... the European Union has simply forgotten to remain sympathetic: It is almost all the time only a punishing body, an obstacle race.” In a situation in which she “is constantly controlled, warned, restricted and naughty schoolmaster, the EU has acquired the image of a tickling mother-in-law, an acid educator.” “It’s very easy to say ‘no’ to an organization that says ‘no’ itself from morning to evening. You're just sorry to adapt to this constant castration." I've brought this quote because it's supposed to encourage thought. I do not share this analysis in all, but it is important that we have an open and honest debate without taboos, because the idea, the vision, the dream of a united Europe is so important that we must listen carefully and attentively when such intellectual and convinced Europeans formulate such a vote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I therefore think that the No of the French and Dutch, which has been quite clear – that was not a close result – also has other reasons that not only relate to the text or to individual articles of the European Constitution or the Treaty. There are certainly other, deeper reasons that have played a major role. And one of the most important issues of course is the concern of many people about the workplace, the concern about the European location. It is true, of course, that Europe has created 10 million additional jobs and reduced 3 million unemployed in the last ten years. The number of unemployed has decreased by 3 million. But it is equally true – and this is true – that a social area, an economic area, a European site that still has 20 million unemployed people raises questions. It is therefore very important that we accept this issue and see that people's concern for increasingly tough international competition, before globalisation, is, of course, right in front of location pressure, and that we also have to put questions about an ever-increasing liberalisation within the WTO – that was also such a mantra and a dogma. In my opinion, it is a dangerous trend if we react to it wrong, for example, with the call “ Zugbrücke hoch!”, “Close the fortress Europe!” or “press the button”. Ladies and gentlemen! Neither with the raised drawbridge nor with the stop button be They can sufficiently depress these concerns and fears of the people, but only with active action, packing, taking seriously and with practical, concrete political results. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a large share of international networking: Every second job depends essentially on trade, on exports of goods and services, every second euro we earn comes from the highly successful location competitive situation that Austria has built up in recent years. I myself started as Minister of Economic Affairs at a time when this share was 25 percent; today it is 52 percent. Therefore, in my opinion, the call “Zugbrücke hoch!”, “Stop!”, “Kehrtwender!” is fundamental false. We have to... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This is the most important commandment in modern times. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] And I say something about it, because some people are now calling it into question. I still think that the social market economy, supplemented by the sustainability component as an eco-social market economy, is still the best economic system in the world that mankind – at least so far – has invented. And that is to be said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Because progress comes from competition, and only competition ultimately makes progress. The slowest, slowed down societies and economies are those who do not know the competition, who believe a bureaucratic dirigism, centralism, plan economy or whatever, can do optimal for the citizens. This dream, too, was once alive and was bitterly put. Therefore: Let's learn from it! As a small, open economy, we should have the right consequences. We are now facing a new presidency, and we have been in the troika for the first time since July. Tony Blair, the British have now taken over the Presidency of the Council. Now, of course, the question of discussion is also raised a little bit in the published opinion: What model of Europe do we want? And this will flow – hopefully! – in the discussions. Blair and the British, of course, have some right to say that quite openly. Europe must reform itself if we are to stand up to international competition. And of course, growth and jobs are the biggest attention-makers in the current situation. We must focus on growth and jobs at European and Austrian level. Social is what creates work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And of course Tony Blair and many others with him are right when they say that in Europe we need to focus more attention on research, education, infrastructure. I also think it is very necessary that Juncker as the last chairman, who is responsible for the financial perspective, has put a rather clever proposal on the table, like me, to double the funds for education, tripled for infrastructure, and increased research by 60 percent. He has even taken up a proposal from us to present his own research programme through the European Investment Bank of €10 billion in addition to his budget proposals. Here, I think, is consensus, and there is no one who can be serious about it. And it is also clear that the British and any other presidency must be interested in having a strong, internationally active Europe, which must not be dependent on other world regions. We must be able to act on our own, as a force of peace, as a continent that has committed itself to certain principles and a model of life which is not taken for granted in other parts of the world. But I also say quite frankly that I think it is fundamental to make the agricultural policy and rural policy the sole scapegoat of European development. That is clearly stated here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say this in particular now also in the direction of the SPÖ and of Dr. Gusenbauer, which is also part of the European model of life that we jointly built and valued, that we have well-kept landscapes, first-class food and clean, drinkable water at our disposal. And that doesn't make anyone available to us, you can't buy it in international trade. The WTO will not help us. This must be produced here, in Europe, in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think it is basic to place bills such as: 2 € per cow per day. There has not yet been a European cow a day 2 €. This money gets the farmers, this money gets the dealers, this money gets the meat processing farms, this money goes into rural space. After all, forget about it. You never, ladies and gentlemen: It is precisely the far-reaching reform of the Austrian Franz Fischler – and this is also true here, by the way, recognised by all the parties two and a half years ago – that has caused the milk lakes to disappear, the butterbergs to disappear, has ensured that we have been able to cope with the BSE crisis that has shaken Europe. He has also proposed something that we would have supported in a sustainable way, namely, ceilings for large businesses, for the agricultural industry. And who rejected it? That too is questionable. Certain Heads of Government in Germany and the UK, Social Democrats, have rejected this. That's where you can build. And if I have this overall consensus, Fischler model plus upper limit, then we're far. But then stop setting the demand: 20 per cent for rural areas and agricultural policy, which means halving income throughout the rural area for hundreds of thousands in Austria and millions in Europe. And we don't want that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, work very intensively with the British Presidency. We are also friendly to the British, not a question. We already have an intensive exchange of views. This preparation for the Austrian Presidency in six months, which has already begun with the Troika, is supplemented and supported by a new Secretary of State, which I would like to present to you today: Dr. Hans Winkler. I think all the political parties here in the House and, hopefully, I can say, I appreciate him. He is one who does not belong to any party who has never made a political career except in the staff representation with an independent list, as the political parties and politicians present here know and sometimes have experienced painfully. He was very successful with this independent list. He was in Washington, he was in Berlin, he was in Cairo, he was in Belgrade, he was at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. He has been very successful for all of us, together with Ernst Sucharipa, whom we unfortunately have to bury today, the very difficult negotiations with Stuart Eizenstat for the restitution, the General Settlement Fund and for the Reconciliation Fund, led by Maria Schaumayer. I am convinced that I can present to you today a truly first-class European and foreign policy expert, and I believe that he will be very supportive of the Foreign Minister. Let us not underestimate the task ahead of us in quantitative terms! We need to cooperate with the European Parliament, with the 25, 27 partners – Romania, Bulgaria are practically already integrated into the entire will-building process. We need to go a little further, we need to speak and answer the committees and the European Parliament. We will also need every voice in the current debate on the future of Europe, which propels Europe's thoughts and provides a basis for contention. I think Hans Winkler can do this well, and you can be assured that he has good contacts with any political group here in the House. Want him to be at your disposal. I also ask you to support him. My final sentence: What can we do to better represent and understand Europe in Austria at this time, at this time of the Troika and the Presidency? I begin with myself at the European Council and my colleagues. We should stop talking badly with one another, partly half-happiness. I say this quite openly: We must preserve a certain degree of dignity and respect for each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I do not think it is right to say that we are talking about food qualities in another country or that we are making jokes about the size and quality of Parliament. I think that we simply need to learn to understand this project as a common one, where we either achieve something together and stand there well or make each other bad and thus also talk about it. The second thought: We should bring people in Austria and in Europe closer to what it would mean, if it were not for this project and the European Union. And I conclude here with a sentence that Klaus Harpprecht – after all, the speaker of Willy Brandt – has recently said in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”: “I could make a very demagogic proposal,” says Klaus Harpprecht. “One should only restore the old states for one week and close the borders. Then the cry for Europe would be overwhelmingly great.” The man is right: Peace, freedom, the case of borders, the case of different currencies, the cooperation on this continent, which has bleeding enough in its history, are not of course. Let us, therefore, make this of course also the future of tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7075	We are now going into the debate. Mr Gusenbauer was the first speaker to speak. Speech time: 12 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7099	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What is the problem of Europe? Why does any debate on European policy always lead immediately to the principle question: Europe – yes or no? This problem has to move us in the real world. At national level, we can discuss matters of Austrian domestic policy extremely controversially, sometimes also argue, but no one will come to the idea of questioning Austria. Unfortunately, it is always so when discussing European policy issues, about the next steps, about the orientation of European policy, that it does not take long, and you are already back in the discussion: If there is this Europe, should there not be this Europe, should there be more Europe, should there be less Europe? And the problem that I suspect is that the European identity is not yet as anchored in the awareness of the European population and also in the awareness of all those who make politics, because I imagine that we can discuss European policy as democratically and controversially as we do about internal policy. Then the European project has become mature. I think it is completely missing, on every occasion, to call into question the whole project at once, with every disagreement about Europe, because I do not think that it is possible to win the agreement either. Mr Bundeskanzler, I give you the right to: Europe is a success project. Europe is also very spoiled: by securing peace over several decades, by the successful introduction of the euro and by the enlargement that took place last year. Yes, Europe is a success story and spoiled success. I believe, however, that it is really wrong for many European citizens to express their concern and dissatisfaction with the continuing unemployment when they are concerned about the pace of various European projects, which always brings into a context with the fundamental question of Europe. I think that's the wrong way. It would be much more correct to say: We reject the basic European consensus, but we are contentious and disputable as regards the development of European policy, because it must be debated as democratically as Austrian domestic policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To do as if you could continue as before, I don't think that will work. It has just been seen in these referenda that certain determinations made by the Heads of State and Government have simply gone beyond that. The idea of making a vote in individual countries and in other ratifications in the national Parliament was simple and simply a bad one; this has turned out in the meantime. If one is right to say that not only the dissatisfaction of the population over negative consequences of globalisation has been debated in these referendums, not only the question of the pace of various European projects, but of course it has also been agreed on the national state of affairs and on how satisfied or dissatisfied a population is precisely with its government, then one must say: The implementation of such national referendums was, after all, an invitation to bring these constitutional references deeply into the internal policies of these states. If we were to say that it was a European Constitution or a European Constitutional Treaty, it would have been the only right way to remove it from domestic policy, to bring it to a European level and to have a European referendum on it. This would have been much wiser than this little bit of vote we had. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know that we have no differing views here in the Austrian Parliament, that is what I am aware of, but if you take this example, you must not overlook that even on a number of other issues, what the Heads of State and Government decide, the wisdom must not always be the final conclusion. Some comments in the wake of these speakers have bothered me, for example, when it has been said that we need to explain Europe better. What's going on with that? - That swings with: We know what the truth about Europe is, but people are too stupid to understand, we just have to explain it better to them. I think that is a mistake, because that would mean that everything is done properly in Europe, that it is only misrepresented. I do not believe that this is the core of dissatisfaction, and I believe that there must be a change in Europe's policy. And Tony Blair is right: A continent can hardly claim to be a social Europe if we have 20 million unemployed. This question has, of course, been rhetorically strained enough in recent years, but people do not have the impression that action is being taken accordingly. And I'll give you an example. It is not a question of establishing the fortress Europe, but the United States of America, for example, would not have been allowed for six months to take action against the superfluous textile imports from China and Southeast Asia, which were sometimes produced even under the conditions of child labour and using all basic labour law standards. And this has nothing to do with international solidarity: We want to open up the markets for this type of work, for these special economic zones, in which, by the way, all the trade union and labour rights are suspended. I am in favour of fair competition, but a competition with child labour, with forced labour and without labour law, we do not want such a competition as Europeans and as Austrians with us! [[Lively congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the world's appearance, I absolutely agree with a common European appearance in the world. But, ladies and gentlemen, where is this joint action? Until today, the European Union is not able to act together as Europe in the United Nations, nor, more importantly, in the international financial institutions. And if we say that Europe should not be dependent, but that Europe should act on its own and we want to be a counterweight in the world in order to come to civilized conditions, then there would be a sign of this – and there is no need for the Constitution, Mr. Collegue – to pool voting rights in the international financial institutions. This could have been done by Europe for a long time, even without a constitution. But there is a lack of credibility here, because the measures for an independent, strong Europe in the world have unfortunately not been put in place so far. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To be concrete, Mr Bundeskanzler – there are concrete questions again, and you have also referred to issues of liberalisation that are critically seen, and the like: In these days, there is a debate in the European Parliament on something that many people do not follow, namely, a law on patent protection in software, something which is essentially a whole, very essential matter. For example, it is about whether, in future, the small but very fine and successful Austrian software development – where there are many medium-sized enterprises, as in other European countries – has a chance, or whether there will be a decision-making that will only determine the major software groups in the world, which will happen because only these will have the financial power to enforce these patents. However, this is an area of service, one of the most modern, one of the most scientific industries, if you want to, where a chance lies in the future. And if Europe once again decides not to be on the side of medium-sized enterprises, not on the side of diversity, but on the side of the groups, then this is once again a blow against European jobs and against European independence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have raised the question of agricultural policy, Mr Bundeskanzler, and I would point out that it was Commissioner Franz Fischler, who made far-reaching proposals for reform, but unfortunately did not come through on many points. ==References== In June, he understood the attitude of British Prime Minister Tony Blair in the debate on EU finances, because he also felt that there was a further need for reform in the agricultural policy at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be quite honest: The high level of EU agricultural support has not prevented farmers from dying in recent years. And they have not prevented in many parts of Europe the destruction of the landscapes. What has often safeguarded independent production and rural development was partly what we are doing from national co-fundings. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Grillitic.]] You know, Mr Grillitsch, that Austria is one of the countries that spends most of its own - Austrian - budget in addition to EU agricultural policy, because we want there to be miners, because we want there to be organic farmers, because we want there to be a development of rural areas. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grill: But 50 percent away, Mr. Gusenbauer!]] But the financing of the European agricultural industry goes completely beyond 90 percent of Austrian farmers, and that is the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Lentsch: You don't believe that!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion, Mr President. Too bad I have so little time today, but let me conclude by saying: I fully understand that there is a State Secretary for EU issues because it is important to implement the Presidency successfully. I think Hans Winkler can do this perfectly because he's a good diplomat. But why he comes in addition and not instead of another, that remains unexplainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7259	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. His speaking time is 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7281	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech on behalf of my group, I would like to warmly congratulate the new Secretary of State Dr Hans Winkler on his appointment. We all know Hans Winkler in this House, especially in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as a truly profound expert on all matters of foreign policy, as a convincing diplomat, as a person who can truly be trusted with much. I would therefore like to congratulate him on behalf of my group on his task, which he will certainly perform in an excellent way. [[General condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was strange to listen to Dr. Gusenbauer today and here the 25. The issue of European policy was presented. [[Abg. Grill: zigzag!]] For, ladies and gentlemen, there is once the direction of the Dr. Gusenbauer, as today, where he often rides on a bowl course, which we quite welcome. I am pleased if you agree with our Federal Chancellor and his policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question is always: How long does it last? For if you are only talking to your neighbor, Mr Gusenbauer, that is a little different. Only a few weeks ago, we were able to debate EU policy here in the House. There was a current hour that carried a remarkable title that the SPÖ has chosen: ‘For a turnaround in EU policy’. And there we have heard something quite different, ladies and gentlemen, that not the current situation in the European Union has to be considered with thought and perhaps with a referendum as it has happened, with “Fleckerlteppich”, as Dr. Gusenbauer said today, but it was said that the project would be a question of Europe. We have seen a turnaround of the SPÖ! Ladies and gentlemen! These are the different opinions in this party. Only: This has nothing to do with government responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! European policy, as we believe it to be, must look different, because European policy, as we believe it, means in this situation, that it must be noted that two referendums on the European Constitution have been negative. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] This is democracy, and everyone must take note of it when a majority says no. But it must not result in a crisis of the entire European project. I think this is not responsible and dangerous, because we all, ladies and gentlemen, have benefited from this Europe project, and we as the People's Party in particular. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: What has the People's Party benefited so much?]] We also stick to the fact that the Europe project is a success, a project that needs to be expanded. I would particularly like to stress this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that our line must now be listening, because we know that, after these referendums, there has also been a remarkable change of opinion in Austria, which means that Europe is too far away, it is too complicated, you don't understand how it goes. We are probably all responsible for the fact that we have made too little reference to what this Europe has brought to all of us. I can support this with a few examples right at the beginning of the holiday period: Now everyone is on vacation, many even by car. Who can imagine today standing at the Walserberg or at the Brenner border and showing the passport? [[Abg. Eder: At ASFINAG we are at the border!]] Schengen has brought us freedom of travel within Europe, but security has also increased externally. I think this is a positive example of what Europe has brought to understand. Or think about the money change: Whoever travels to Italy or Greece on vacation, no longer needs to change today, who pays with the same currency as in Austria. We can't even imagine how it was a few years ago! And there are many other examples. I would like to stress one particular point because it also shows the prosperity effect we have achieved in Austria with this project in Europe. If you look at the 1994 figures, before our accession, and compare them with the 'concealer', namely the gross domestic product per capita in Austria, you will find a figure of €19 000. 19 000 € per capita in 1994 – today, ten years after our accession, we have a per capita income of 27 000 €! This is an enormous increase, but it will only become so plastic if we compare it with our neighbor, Switzerland, a country that did not join the EU and which was far ahead of us at that time, in 1994, and had a per capita income of €4,000 higher than we did. Today this advantage has melted by 75 percent. There is just 1 000 € of prosperity ahead of Austria. I believe that this is already a good measure of Europe's prosperity to all of us, every citizen, and it is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that it is not right to question the Europe project, but that the policy of listening, which makes it possible for citizens to enter into the discussion, is the right thing. And I would like to distinguish myself very well from what the SPÖ is propagating, which the SPÖ is showing us again and again. We also hear in the constituencies how much this project is called into question in Europe. There is a package with a whole series of demands that are simply unfulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it cannot be demanded that we invest more money for a social Europe, that we double or triple the funding for trans-European networks, that we should offer every citizen more of Europe, if at the same time we say that there should no longer be a single euro going to Brussels! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that such unfulfilled demands as you put them, and such demands are also to be rejected in our discussion today. I would particularly like to say that because, thank God, there are also reasonable forces in the SPÖ that are present this course of a Dr. Cap, a Dr. Gusenbauer, who may be acting according to the motto: In every place the desired word, today so and tomorrow so!, do not carry along. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There are reasonable forces in the SPÖ that take a different course. There are words spoken, even in the public, which we would not say at all. Example: EU SPÖ policy is “more reactionary only”. – If this accusation were to raise an ÖVP delegate, you would be outraged. But that didn't say a member of the ÖVP, but Your Member of the European Parliament Herbert Bösch, who has made a special name in Brussels, as a discoverer, as someone who has contributed to the establishment of OLAF as deputy chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to these voices: The SPÖ policy in Europe is “even more reactionary”! – He rightly says that your policy is a turning point, namely, in the opposite direction. Let this kind of politics of skilfulness follow some momentary voices that may appear in the “Kronen Zeitung” but consider your state-bearing role that you have taken over years. That would be my great request to you, even on that day when we are holding a European debate in the National Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! What do we want? That is the big question for the future. We have been thinking about this and we have also tabled a request which I would like to read now, a request which sets out the guidelines of our future Europe policy. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain in a few words what we want. We pay particular attention to creating jobs through growth. That is the essential objective, and that is why we are also proposing that around €10 billion be made available from the European Investment Bank's funding for research in the coming years, so that we can create growth in order to create more jobs in Europe. This is the essential priority that we as the People's Party, see ourselves as a European party. Secondly, I should like to say that we are also in favour of a fair distribution of the burden, and what we are being asked to discuss, in particular by the British Prime Minister, is actually embarrassing. A category of support, namely rural development, against research is inappropriate! Ladies and gentlemen, it has also shaken me that the chairman of the SPÖ, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, is making himself the handcuff of Tony Blair here. This is inconceivable because it is not possible to withdraw half of the income with a dash of 500 000 Austrians by reducing agricultural subsidies and then to join a social Europe. This is inconceivable, ladies and gentlemen, and we absolutely do not agree, Dr. Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All in all, I have to say, shows up again: You are not on the right side of important European issues. Let's just remember five years ago – and now again! In this regard, we must look at the Austrian position and not the position of the Social Democratic Blair, who is still wrong in my view. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying what we want as a whole. What we want is an open discussion in Austria, a fair participation of citizens, but not an in-question position of the Europe project. This project is too valuable, and I believe that a future without Europe cannot be imagined for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7471	Mr Spindelegger's motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Spindelegger, Mr Scheibner, Mr Grillitsch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch, colleagues on the financial perspective of the European Union and the Austrian negotiating position is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7591	Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van der Bellen. His speaking time is also 12 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7612	Mr. State Secretary Dr. Winkler, welcome to Parliament! The Greens have expressly welcomed your appointment. This should not mean that the other State Secretarys are forgotten now, but I am absolutely confident, Secretary of State Dr. Winkler, that you will not be embarrassed simply to go into history as a whitewasher for your minister or your minister, as has happened, for example, State Secretary Finz, and I am also absolutely confident that you do not enter history as that State Secretary who does not know human beings, such as that... – Well, let's leave it! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A dramatic example!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Back to you, Dr. Winkler. Your appointment is, of course, related to the preparation of the Austrian Presidency next year. This decision is good, we think it is correct and important, especially in view of your experience and reputation in the field of foreign policy. As far as the technical and organizational implementation of the Austrian Presidency is concerned, I think that a significant further step has been taken, and I think that the Austrian Presidency will already work at this level. Everything else would be a surprise, and finally the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not do it for the first time, but for the second time. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But, Secretary of State, Dr. Winkler, Foreign Minister, we need more than a functioning technical-organisational process of the Presidency. I think we need, above all, politicians who stop feeling sorry about the European Union. We do not need politicians who are responsible for everything that goes well in their own country – and with that I mean Austria – and all that goes wrong, of course, is the anonymous Brussels – as if their own politicians, whatever the EU-25, would never have been in Brussels themselves, as if they were not taking part in the Council meetings, as if they were not taking decisions, whether in this matter or in any other matter. With this pity and with this diffuse – I will come back to it – response of fears is not served anyone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are fears, there are concerns, yes – but then let's get things to the point! Of course, not everything is rosy in the European Union, I say. So what? It is not all rosy in Austria either, and not only the politicians, but also many citizens in this country are trying to work to make a change in it. This is no different in the Union and in Brussels. For example, I am thoroughly satisfied to hear in discussions that EU enlargement by the EU-10 and the forthcoming enlargements are a problem. - What's the problem? On the contrary: The previous enlargement from the EU-15 to the EU-25 is the success story of the European Union, at least in my view, and even more so, Mr Bundeskanzler – because you called it in a breath – than the introduction of the euro. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] The euro was also a good thing, but from the outset it was under the heavy mortgage of the so-called Stability and Growth Pact, which does not contribute to stability, not to stability, but to growth in Europe. I mean, we're all called to tell you about our experiences, about our conversations outside of this Parliament's walls. I am sure that many in this House are talking to managers – Raiffeisen, for example – about how successful Raiffeisen is in the EU-10. Where do they make their money? Where does the market expand? – In the EU-10 and outside the current EU-25! Is this bad for Austria? – That’s a great story! It's exactly the same with the First Austrian Bank, with the OMV, in the field of telecommunications and, and, So Austrian companies have taken this opportunity shinyly since the fall of the Iron Curtain – in contrast to German companies, for whatever reason. I also find it remarkable that Austrian companies in this EU-10 are absolutely welcome. That should also be an example for us. What have we not always been excited about alienation, foreign capital and so on, without asking whether some immigrant at company level should not perhaps be welcome to Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: You've been excited about alienation?]] EU enlargement is an unprecedented success story – including the forthcoming EU enlargement by Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia. We should not be small here, here we should press for speed, especially as far as Croatia is concerned. Austrian companies are already well represented in these countries, but they take a risk: Of course, you have built on the fact that these countries will not be members of the European Union sooner or later, but very soon. This also concerns the still distant countries of the so-called Western Balkans. Giuliano Amato, chairman of the International Balkan Commission, has recently said that the citizens do not know how many soldiers we have to station in the Balkans – affected, of course, primarily Bosnia – and how much we pay for the peace missions there; it would be more reasonable to invest this money in economic development and an EU integration of South-East Europe. – Perfect! It costs a “swine money” there to station the troops that are keeping peace with effort and need, and it would be much better to invest this money for the integration of these countries – if they want it – into the European Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: But one does not stop without the other!]] And, mutatis mutandis, I say at the end of the day, this also applies to Turkey. I am absolutely in favour of starting the accession negotiations with Turkey. I would be against voting with Yes on next Sunday, if this question arises, on Turkey's accession now, here and today. I would vote with No – quite clearly. First of all, because it would completely exaggerate the Union's capacity to accept it, and second, because Turkey's ability to adapt, or say, has not been sufficiently tested. But why should we now be evocative about this question? This decision will take place at the earliest in ten years, and until then we will see where the Union is developing, not least in its budget, or Turkey itself. I think the citizens are not helped by talking to them after the mouth. The citizens of France, in their majority, have decided in a referendum to reject the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. That's their right. But my good right is to say: I think this decision is wrong! The Constitutional Treaty would have brought more democracy, would have improved the functioning of the Union, would last but not least have promoted the Social Union, in addition to the Economic Union, through the catalogue of fundamental rights. The French have rejected this. Okay. Now we land again in Nice, where we were before. The success is that President Chirac is “a lame duck”, as it is called in the diplomatic language, and not only Chirac itself, but France in total, and that all three major founding nations of the Union – France, Germany and Italy – are in a similar situation. So what? The large founding nations of the EU do not then carry out their original task. If a leadership vacuum has been created here, other politicians and other nations will have to go into this vacuum, from me. Whether Tony Blair is the right person, you'll see. His speech to the European Parliament on 23 March. June, I think, was excellent. But it was Tony Blair who kept her – and since when is Britain the champion of the deepening of the Union? Since when has Britain made a choice in favour of the European continent in the election between a transatlantic brotherhood and the continental link? - So you'll see. In my opinion, this leadership vacuum at European level is not the worst for the Austrian Presidency: It's going down the expectations in a way. If even Juncker, a convinced and experienced European, has failed with the Luxembourg Presidency, that can happen to anyone. And vice versa: If something good comes out for Europe, then of course our management team, especially in the EIA, will agree. – I don't care today. I am interested in European development. The financial question. – So I think it’s a bit strange, Mr. Spindelegger: First, you bet about the SPÖ – I could agree with you internally as far as your criticism of the small barn with regard to Austrian contributions is concerned – and then make a request that makes hair exactly the same! What are you doing? In your first point, you require the Federal Government to continue to stand firm for the interests of Austria as a net payer, in particular 1 percent and so on. [[Abg. Scheibner: Sure!]] Do you know what my opinion about that is? - Let's stop with this little stuff! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Eder.]] Let's be proud that Austria is in a net pay position, cruciturks! [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is now...!]] Would you rather that Austria would be in a net recipient position because the economic situation of Austria is so miserable? No, we are a wealthy country, we are proud that many of us have done something for it, and that is why we will be ready to pay something! I personally have much more sympathy with the Commission's proposal, the 1.2 percent of GDP, than with the 1.0 percent that the People's Party seems to agree to now, after the German Chancellor Schüssel himself was ready a few days ago to go to about 1.1 percent. I think this is small-scale. Of course, the budget must be changed differently, of course we wish for a structural change within the European budget in favour of rural areas – yes! – in favour of research and development and in general in favour of a stronger growth orientation, taking into account environmental sustainability, as indicated in Lisbon. But as far as this herumier is concerned because of 0.1, 0.001 percent of GDP in favour of it – or, in that case, one has to say: to the detriment of the European cause, with this item 1 of today's request for hair is no less small-scale than the SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr State Secretary! For the next twelve months we wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7746	Next, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. Speech time: also 12 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7768	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen, you have now wondered why, on the one hand, the SPÖ statements made in some areas – not today's speech by Mr Gusenbauer, but previous statements by the SPÖ – can be described as a prelude and, on the other hand, presents a joint motion for a resolution by the government parties, which sets out a negotiating position that keeps Austria's interests in mind accordingly. And this is it, Mr Van der Bellen: We believe that one can be for Europe, but still – and especially in Europe and towards Europe and the European Union – can and must keep in mind the interests of Austria and the population of Austria. For this is also a reason for the Europe-Creation of many citizens: that one has the feeling that Brussels is above the interests of the people that the bureaucrats are ruling in Europe, that the institutions are ruling and not being worked for the people. And we, as Austrian parliamentarians, as the Austrian Federal Government, of course also have an interest in representing the interests of Austria and the Austrians in the European Union. This is not against Europe, it is not small-carriage, it is for Europe, because this Europe must be a Europe of people – and thus also of people in Austria, Mr Van der Bellen and ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If it is said here that, on the basis of these negative votes and the open questions, one should not question the overall project of the European Union and Europe, then I am right to say that one should not discuss it negatively, but on the other hand one should also note that this Europe project needs progress. If we are in favour of a common Europe, then we must not take note of it, then we must make this progress in the idea of Europe, in the structures, in the deepening – of course also in enlargement, but as an overall project! – support. And we are now facing a phase where there is a threat of a standstill – and we are at risk of this project being stopped. That is why we also have to deal with this situation very fundamentally. However, if we look at the reaction to the negative vote in France and Holland so far, I do not yet see this dynamic, which would be necessary, not the initiatives and also the new ideas to respond accordingly to this point of view of the population. No, there has been a second step: not agreeing on the future financial structure of the European Union. And we all know: If we also say that Europe is more than the Europe of the 15 is more than the Europe of 25, we must also be clear that any enlargement also needs deepening. And it was also a consensus that they said: This European Constitution is necessary in order to make the Europe of 25 possible and to enable further development, i.e. progress. Now we have the Europe of the 25 – and we have criticized it at the time that some of these candidate countries have not complied with the criteria set out by the European Union itself; I recall, for example, the human rights standards in the Czech Republic, the Beneš decrees, the environmental standards when I think of nuclear power plants. Here too, even now, after accession, for example, this country, but also others, has not made any progress, because these criteria are established but are not reviewed. We have said that this Constitution is necessary in order to align the structures on it. Now there is enlargement, but no constitution. And I say it again here: I am in favour of this European Constitution, and we need this European Constitution! One can discuss whether everything is okay, whether there should be something more here or something less – that was a compromise, of course! But the alternative of not having a constitution now, although we have taken the other step of enlargement, is certainly the worst thing that could happen to this Europe and to the idea of Europe. That is why there has to be ideas on how to get out of this difficult situation and how this necessary European constitution should still exist. There has already been a lot of discussion on this question, including, of course, as far as this “flicker slug” is concerned in national referendums. But that was also a lack of these ideas, the common ideas in this European Union. That was one of the causes of the problematic situation – and this would be an opportunity for the Austrian Presidency to revitalize this idea of a Europe-wide referendum on such important projects as the European Constitution and to create a framework for it to be able to reach an important, good, right and necessary European constitution in a Europe-wide referendum. An important task for the Austrian Presidency! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It would also be interesting, of course, to rethink the structures of subsidies in the financial sector. We do not have to question the whole agricultural subsidies, but we should not close the discussion either. Why is it possible, for example, that the British queen is one of the largest beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies – and on the other hand we still have problems with the small and medium-sized structure that we can obtain these farms – and that the agricultural factories in Holland, the agricultural factories in Great Britain or in Germany are subsidized here? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] – It must be possible, and it is also necessary to discuss these structures and to bring about a change that also relieves households. It must also be possible to discuss whether, on the other hand, investment can and must be made not only at national level, but also at European level for future developments, for example in research and new technologies, because this also creates jobs, which creates progress, it also creates competitiveness of the European states, of European businesses in a globalised world. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are the discussions that we have to hold – and not that we accept that some British rebate, which has been granted in a difficult economic situation many years ago, can now be cemented and continued. Mr Van der Bellen, this too, I believe, is important: to represent the interests of Austria here – for it is not the case that this is any tenth of a percentage that needs to be transferred to Brussels, but that is euro amounts at billions that the taxpayer has to raise! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen, please go! ... net! It's a fool!]] And we have to deal with this money carefully, and we also have to ensure that Austria is able to obtain as much as possible funding and subsidies from the European Union as possible, in order to give it to Austrian businesses in order to give it to the structures and people in Austria. This is our task as the Austrian Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This too will be an important point in the Austrian Presidency. It is a challenge, but also a great responsibility, because no one wants to talk about a European crisis – that is all right – but if it fails to find a solution in one year both for the constitutional question and for the financial questions, then we will really have to deal with a crisis, because then we have not only a standstill but a step back. And then this Europe project may really be questioned – not questionable! I believe that this Europe is important, that is not a question. It is also repeatedly highlighted the aspect of the peace project, sometimes as an excuse for not being able to solve other things or not wanting to solve them. This peace project, however, has to continue to evolve again and again, must be updated again and again. And, Mr Van der Bellen, you see: I am always listening to you very well – here too I am only half of your opinion: Of course, this peace project of the European Union also includes the support of economic crisis regions, reconstruction, judicial structures, democracy structures! No question, this is an important area of responsibility for the European Union. But it is equally important to guarantee security in these countries. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes, eh!]] That is why it is also important to maintain a common European security policy, including military structures: not a European army, such as the Socialists, but a cooperation of the national armies, in order to carry out these tasks outside Europe, namely to guarantee security, in order to enable them to support reconstruction and civil structures at all. This is also a European responsibility. As far as this security policy is concerned, I hope that the Austrian Presidency will set up initiatives. You know that I have always felt that the Middle East should be an important topic for Austria, including in the Presidency. We have a good standing in this region, thank God, progress between Austria and the Palestinians – but this needs to be strengthened. However, there is no progress on other problems, such as the still open issues concerning the border between Israel and Syria. There is still resistance in some European Union countries to conclude an association agreement with Syria. I think it is important to show these countries that they are – of course! – we also need to bring something in, but that we reach out to them and say: If you are willing to help a positive development, if you are willing to ensure peace and participate in a peace process, then the European Union, unlike some other voices outside Europe, will also be a fair, objective partner for you! – I also expect this to happen: as a small country, as an Austrian, we have this function during our presidency. In this sense, I think it is very, very positive that you, Mr Winkler, have been nominated for this important function – not only for discharge, but also for enriching and supplementing our activities during the Austrian Presidency. We know you about your ambassador function in the Council of Europe, you will certainly take over this task with great care and momentum. The other State Secretarys, ladies and gentlemen, are all busy. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a sharp misestimation!]] I believe that Europe is important, but disability policy is just as important, research policy is equally important, art policy is equally important, sport is just as important – and transport policy is not. We will carry out this additional task of the EU Presidency, of course, very actively. But all other tasks in the interests of Austria must not be neglected this half year!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7872	Next came Mr. Gorbach. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7903	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Of course, I would like first of all to welcome the new State Secretary, Ambassador Dr. Hans Winkler, to the Austrian Federal Government. Ambassador! As a new Secretary of State, they will not only support the Foreign Minister in the preparation and, above all, in the implementation of the EU Presidency, but also the entire Federal Government – and thus the Republic of Austria! I wish you a lot of success! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My speech at the plenary session was almost two months ago. May, when we discussed the Constitutional Treaty here, I began with the following statement: [[Abg. May. Kogler: A ‘ groundbreaking’ speech!]] “You can also critically question many developments in the European Union, in which you see not only opportunities but also risks.” The developments that we have all been able to follow since then are referred to by many as a crisis, as a setback, as a reaction to the too rapid enlargement, as a retroactive effect on the distant citizens of this European Union et cetera. What happened? – On the one hand, the French and Dutch people have said in a democratic vote “No” to this EU Constitutional Treaty, and on the other hand, almost three weeks ago, the relevant European Council could not agree on the budget timetable from 2007. My whole conviction in this regard is that Klubobmann Scheibner has just pointed out: The basic idea of European integration was and is to ensure peace and stability on this continent, which is our home country! – And we should mention that again and again. Peace and stability are something you can't measure with money, can't weigh with euro, not with: “How much do you pay in and get out?” This is a priceless asset for which we have to fight every day! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to deal intensively with the failure of these negotiations. On the one hand, it was uncompromising defense of privileges – we don't want it! – but it was also, as I mean, firm holding on to the previous system. In this respect, I believe that the European Union – all those responsible, including us – must become much more flexible and realize that time is moving forward, that we cannot have things we love forever and need to re-examine. We should therefore now be very focused on many areas, but we should be calming down the priorities and not rushing to conclusions. The fact is that from this so-called crisis one can also make a chance for a Europe with more citizens' rights, with more proximity to the citizens, with more solidarity and identity, without unjustified specialities or even excessive subsidies, a Europe with more innovative strength – I also wish to do so. We must therefore make it clear that Europe should focus on what only Europe can do: strengthen deepening! However, Europe should not worry about things that the individual Member State can do just as well or even better. It has been the experience of European everyday life, which has brought to light the much quoted tiredness in this Europe, namely too little transparency and too little proximity to citizens. That is where we have to start so that this Europe and important things like the Constitution – I think it is with Klubobmann Scheibner – can become a majority. They are not in many countries today – not only in France, not only in the Netherlands. Ladies and gentlemen! In this consolidation phase, as I call it, Europe must also agree on where its borders are to be located, both geographically and institutionally. As a member country of the European Union, Austria will play a very important role in the first half of 2006. And I am glad if I can at least hear a common approach to European policy. The financial question should not only be discussed at the level of a percentage or a number – comma zero or comma zero anything! This statement, which we were then the first or initiators, together with five other net payers, should be maintained – this demand is also up-to-date – but it is crucial, however, how much resources are spent on research and development, how much resources are spent on transport projects that are so important for the further positive development of the European Union and its individual Member States. Finally, we also need to take into account how much money flows back to Austria. A reflection on an end to the British rebate, on a detachment of the EU agricultural budget, but also on renationalisation especially in the agricultural sector should take place, it should be discussed about it! Ladies and gentlemen, I can only summarise the Constitutional Treaty: We should recall and implement the idea of the founding fathers of this united Europe: a Europe of the Fatherly Countries with national sovereignty! – This is what citizens also want. They do not want a European state with a headquarters in Brussels or anywhere, they want a state association with a strong identity of their own country, their own region. The aim must be to establish Europe as a global security-political, competitive player. We need a reorganisation of competences. However, we need the Treaty mentioned, and we need a new, fede-rative voting procedure, because, of course, the European people have a right to vote on their constitution – Europe-wide, throughout Europe and not only in individual countries, as it has been falsely done! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In short, we need a Europe of citizens and a Europe with more direct democracy, as well as a Europe with less bureaucracy. I believe that this is a point that should not only happen in Sunday's speeches, but to which we should all, all of us Member States, consider what we can contribute at what level to reduce this bureaucracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] Self-reliance and renationalisation, as I believe, are important areas in order to bring the common idea of a united Europe, with strong involvement and acceptance of the population to a functioning basis. Ladies and gentlemen! We are all, of course, part of this Europe. That too must become more aware of us. In particular, we politicians have a special responsibility to discuss with the citizens about Europe, about the objectives, about the development, about the question: How does that look tomorrow? We should discuss it even more intensively, positively critically, not uncritically, but in total, as to what it is: more than one vision, a future idea, for which it is worth fighting every day!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e7982	Next, Mr. Dr. Cap will speak. Speaking time for the next round: 8 minutes each. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8003	Madam President. High house! Introducing – and in continuation of what Dr. Gusenbauer said earlier – to the appointment of Mr. State Secretary: It is quite understandable that if you have qualified diplomats in the house, you can also give them the opportunity to work within the framework of the government. I also understand: They then want to devote more to the election campaign engagements in 2006. I assume that then Mr Winkler, State Secretary, will do the actual work, but you will be horrified from one photo appointment to another. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Look, you're actually confirming my suspicion, because your outrage is just a confirmation of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is how every Secretary of State has his task. At Mr Gorbach he has to ensure that, while Mr Gorbach is not in the house when he completes his many trips abroad, work continues. [[Abg. Neudeck: What about two clubmen?]] Other State Secretarys, as I have read, are only present in a virtual way. There are seven State Secretarys – as I said: It's so many! I too have already lost the overview, there are becoming more and more. In the public, it was also strongly criticized that this number is so great. [[Abg. Neudeck: How about Cap and Gusenbauer as clubmen?]] But in any case, it is clear and clear what is to happen during the Presidency of the Council: There will be an election campaign, and Mr Winkler will do the actual job. Good! And that with taxpayers' money – that has been critically noted once! But now we want to devote ourselves to the declaration of the Federal Chancellor or to the questions raised here. We have always criticised the fact that there is something like a neoliberal orientation in the European Union, and said that we are pleading for a reorientation. We have fixed this to a number of points. One of these was the discussion on the Working Time Directive. She has translated it means: Work more, get less paid! . We have repeatedly noted this critically here in the House, even at a separate meeting of the EU Subcommittee. The second point of our criticism of this neoliberal conception of the European Union was the Services Directive, which would have meant that small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, from Latvia, Estonia, from wherever, could have come to Austria and offered their services at the prices and conditions of their country of origin. But this would be a real threat to the existence of many small and medium-sized enterprises – and thus the jobs of hundreds of thousands of employees there! – means! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] On these two points alone, we have strongly attached our criticism. Another point was that the European Union currently has 19 million, indeed almost 20 million unemployed. We said: Where are the employment initiatives? Where are the growth initiatives so that there is again a Europe in which – and now we come to one of the points – the people who live here have the impression that their interests are perceived that their interests after employment, after work, are really addressed and appropriate measures implemented? This is one of the many reasons why there is this scepticism, because many people have the impression – even here in Austria – that the Heads of Government, the ministers when they go to Brussels – apart from the fact that, as a commentator wrote in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, they “speak with split tongues” there, they do not contribute there so that people’s interests in Europe are truly in line with the need for employment, for social security, for a growth policy that is important so that the social state structures in Europe can continue to exist. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's not true! ... Schroeder...!]] – Yes, Mr Fassleven, people also expect a certain degree of protection from the European Union from the fact that globalisation pressure is not passed on 1 : 1; they expect the European Union to ensure that it becomes something like a social Union once. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's it!]] - Yes! But neoliberal conception says: It is enough if there is a liberal single market concept; it is enough if it is a mere economic union with location competition, with natural tax competition – which we also criticise! But that's too little for us! We think there must be something like a social union. It must be a political project. The Federal Chancellor rightly asked: What project, which model of the European Union do we really want? Then we have to say it too! There is an interesting quote from former French Prime Minister Laurent Fabius – I do not share his opinion on the Constitutional Treaty. This has meant that the current picture, the reason why the mood in Europe is so, is that people feel that the EU is “humanly substanceless, politically unidentifiable, geographically out of place”. – This is the short summary of a basic mood that should be taken seriously! “Humanly substantial” because, if there are 19 million unemployed, I have to say: So, please, this is serious!, it is also related to humanity and social compassion. ‘Polish identityless’, because there are several ‘Europes’: Euro zone, Schengen zone, countries that are members of NATO, countries that want a core Europe, the ‘transatlantics’. Furthermore, there is hardly any common foreign and security policy and now there is also a dispute about the financial perspective, and I believe it is legitimate to consider what is happening with 40 percent of the EU budget in the field of agriculture. You should reflect this quietly! Tony Blair's right! And in my opinion, Dr. Gusenbauer's proposals were also very legitimate to think seriously about them, especially when most of them, 90 percent, pass over to the Austrian farmers – an important point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill:... organic farmers...?]] Part of this neoliberal conception is also that the enlargement process at the pace, as it has gone before, after the failure of the Constitutional Treaty, because of which one cannot even 'act' the enlargement of 15 to 25 states, seems to continue unabated! That is why, at the beginning of the negotiations with Turkey, when this negotiating mandate is finally formulated, one should try to ensure that the privileged partnership is a real alternative – and also with a view to working in the Mediterranean region, perhaps also in the Western Balkans, perhaps also in the area of the former Soviet Union, on a construction of economic areas that can develop as a partner in association with the European Union. It should not always be the same if all of this is discussed, but only the prospect of accession. There are also other models, as was the case for Austria, for example. We were also not a member, as there was a special partnership before. So why should this not also be thought of for other areas and for other countries?- Oh, my God! That is why, I think, it is so important that people in the language and even in the actions are not simply taught, state-manic skills are asked, it is a management problem – no, the political project of Europe must be a political, social, but also economic and cultural one. And if one cannot argue that, there will continue to be distrust of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8134	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 8 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8155	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies at the Government Bank, in particular new Secretary of State for EU Questions! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The well-known publisher Alfred Payseartner wrote in the “Kurier” a few days ago, that a Kneipp course could also be beneficial for politics, and has meant that the cold shower of negative referendums in France and Holland has set in motion a process of awareness that will strengthen, a process of consciousness in two directions: once that the wishes, concerns, fears and hopes of the citizens of Europe simply need to be taken seriously and, secondly, that we need to discuss Europe more, discuss what the German Chancellor has said, which Europe we want, and that Europe must communicate more. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a banality – but I'm saying it anyway –: The future of Europe will depend to a great extent on the political-emotional acceptance of the citizens of Europe. That will be the future of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, and then we must act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we find, ladies and gentlemen, and many previous speakers have already mentioned this, we are currently confronted with such a thing as a certain European fatigue, Europe-Scepticism, I would like to say: That must have different reasons. I would just like to mention two that are important from my point of view. Let us take a look at how the EU is facing citizens. Of course, the opinion published plays a crucial role here. How else are citizens to form an opinion? They hear the news, they read the newspapers, they tell themselves about television and radio. So how does the EU deal with citizens? Actually pretty unsympathetic. There are months to be read from the power struggles between the top politicians in the EU, up to mockery and the eating culture in other countries. There can be read for months of fines and privileges scandals in the EU Parliament. There are months to be read of just-to-absorbing regulations; Keywords: May jam be called jam? That is what Turkey is talking about as if it were already joining tomorrow. That's what it says: In the transit question abandoned!, and similar more. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's be honest: With each opinion poll, what I “blow in ” for months before! But the other side of the EU, ladies and gentlemen, is a fascinating one, a radiant one: There is no alternative to the peace project Europe. There is no alternative to Europe's security project. There is no alternative to the stability project Europe! There is no alternative to common growth and employment strategies in Europe. And there is also no alternative to common strategies to preserve a viable environment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to simplify it now, but for me the solution is that the EU, economically formulated, refers to its core competences, because these core competences of peace, security, stability, economy and growth and so on, including the social component, undoubtedly have a huge majority of the European population behind it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Social Affairs!]] This is the true core, and this is the model of Europe and the European model of life that would probably have a vast majority of citizens in every referendum. Let us look at the example of Austria; my colleague Michael Spindelegger has already mentioned it: Austria has benefited enormously from membership. The decision of our citizens more than ten years ago, two thirds for EU accession, was a right decision. We're prosperity-winners. No country in Europe has benefited so much from the enlargement of the East. Today, if we have three times as many exports to Central and Eastern Europe as we did ten years ago, this is a prosperity gain. Exports are called jobs, i.e. income opportunities, which are ultimately called social security. The importance of the small country Austria has increased internationally. It is a fascinating task to be able to contribute to European policy. Security, freedom and peace are on a secure foundation. This is the advantage of membership of Austria in the EU, ladies and gentlemen. The population has made a right decision ten years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how are we to proceed? Today, we have tabled a resolution on the EU's financial perspective. What are the strategic interests of our country? We also discussed this a few days ago in the EU Committee. Of course, first of all, as a net payer, we will see that, if possible, the 1-percent contribution can be maintained. Whether it is 1.0 or 1.05 or 1.06, I think it is pointless. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But the 1 percent are not net!]] Mr Van der Bellen, I can imagine what call of call is coming. I would also like to say: I would like to congratulate Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Foreign Minister on the success of the negotiations so far, because the starting point was 1.24 percent, and at present we stand at 1.06 percent – a huge success! – Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Foreign Minister, congratulations on this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second strategic interest, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, we will see that the return flows from the EU are such that Austria is the winner here. This concerns rural development; The previous speakers have already mentioned it. Mr Gusenbauer, we only demand one thing, we demand fairness for rural areas. I myself come from a constituency, a forest district, which is a rural region. Mr Cap unfortunately did it again today, referring to this famous punze 40 percent. – Mr Cap, let me say one thing: According to Adam Ries, the following applies: The EU has a budget of about 1 percent of the social product. According to Adam Rieese, 40 percent of 1 percent is 0.4 percent, and 0.4 percent of the European social product should be worth healthy food, a healthy water, a good cultural landscape. This is so simple, Mr Cap! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I also mention the trans-European networks, I mention the border regions. – Mr Bundeskanzler, thank you very much for this special fund: 150 million for border regions. I know what I'm talking about, I'm from the forest district. The third point, the third strategic interest, concerns the special situation of Austria with this large border. This means regional competitiveness, i.e. cross-border cooperation. These are the special interests of Austria. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the final point of my speech is: There is no doubt that we need more Europe in the field of security, more Europe in the area of stability, more Europe in the area of common strategies for growth and employment. However, we need less Europe in the areas of bureaucracy, regulation, secret diplomacy and remote citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8240	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8262	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr. State Secretary Winkler! Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr State Secretary at the Government Bank! At the beginning of my speech, let me also congratulate the Green Ambassador Dr Winkler on this role, which he has now assumed as State Secretary for the Austrian EU Presidency. I know you as a very experienced, excellent diplomat, as a very valued international legalist, and I would like to wish you very much success here both personally and for this function. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs of the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] However, I would like to say that we welcome this decision, but at the same time I really do not understand why one has not been saved by the other six State Secretarys, who already exist and whose balance is not visible to the public and also to us. I would also like to stress that this is still a matter of loud men; the government always says that it is so great, the government consists half of women and half of men; that is simply not true, because if you count the State Secretary, then this balance is tilting. This new role, this State Secretariat, this support in the Foreign Office for the Foreign Minister, is necessary for the Presidency. Unfortunately, it is relatively late, because now the time of the Troika, the time in which Austria together with Great Britain is preparing and working together. What bothers me, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, is: Technically, it's pretty clear what everything has to be done, including organisationally. In Austria, crazy efforts are taking place. This is the duty – we know what to do. But where's the cure? Where is that what you, Mrs Foreign Minister, are planning to do with this presidency, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps by the Secretary of State? Where the contents of scrolled windows are located It's so much on! It is precisely this weakening of the joint European project, which the No has given to the referendums, that is something where one cannot just go and say: Now let's listen to what the others are doing! What are your specific requirements? What do you want? For example, will you reach the EU-Latin America Summit, which will take place next year? It's about relatively much. This is particularly the question: Does Europe want to show solidarity with the poorest sections of the population, with the native Indians, with the indigenous people, with the rural population, which has been quite marginalized by free trade agreements, which already exist in the North American region, for example, and where there are massive difficulties? Does Austria want to demonstrate such a thing as solidarity for this EU-Latin America summit, or is it just about continuing to build free trade zones? This is not globalisation, which makes a lot more difficult here, but it is very concrete measures that are being put in place. What do you want to achieve at this summit, for example? Or at the EU-USA Summit to take place? President Bush has expressed his wish for a strong Europe, but we know that there is already something like this in secret – let us call it that – that this project of the common Europe is weakened. What do you intend to present to the United States at this EU-US summit? What do you intend to do? Where are these ideas, as we get out of this situation of the supposedly weakened, at least delayed project of the common Europe? Unfortunately, we have not heard any ideas from you. [[Interference of Federal Ministine-rin Dr. Plassnik.]] – If you say: Listen, Mrs. Minister, I'm afraid that's too little. But the point where it was very well about listening is unfortunately not taking place. In the National Council, in the committees, we have little debate on this issue. Mrs. Minister! Federal Chancellor! We have decided that there should be a European day in this Parliament four times a year. This is very welcome, this is an important first step. But if it is decided that the European Parliament will take place on the same day as the European Parliament, so that the MEPs have no opportunity to participate in the debate here, I must say: That's a shot in your own knee. It would be necessary to do so together in order to give more European understanding to the population as well. Another point concerns what you are planning for this presidency. We have tried x-times to discuss this with you, Mrs Minister, in an EU subcommittee. Perhaps it will take place sometime in the autumn. Mrs Minister, if you want to make greater use of the role of Members of this House as mediators for this European project, which is your concern, then it is also necessary to debate content more intensively with us, for we are the ones who communicate to all those in the population we are constantly dealing with. And there I can only say: Unfortunately, such debates take place far too rarely! For example, the Services Directive, which has already been mentioned today. It took months to comply with the Greens' wish to debate at last in the National Council. It is the population, but it is also totally incomprehensible to us, how reasonable it is that people from other EU countries in Austria should be employed at lower standards than in Austria, thus pushing out Austrian workers. This type of dumping in the social field – in the environmental field too – of dumping in the standards for which Europe is known cannot be, we do not need it for this common Europe! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is not the EU's fault, it is not globalisation, but it is you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, who represent these positions in Europe, in Brussels. This is not the EU, it is not an abstract conglomerate, it is the Austrian Federal Government, which, for example, is still in favour of this Services Directive. We Greens want to discuss this. We expect you to have more debate here and not to continue saying: Europe is far from us! – This Europe, this EU, that is not somewhere there, we are here! We are in the middle of this Europe! I can only say: The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Spindelegger, in which you are writing, you still want to pay only 1 per cent of the gross national product... – Mr Bundeskanzler, you have now whispered “about”. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Approximately!]] This proposal states "1 percent" – no more cents! At the same time, you want to get out a lot more. I'm wondering how to do that. That's really small-scale, European micro-ceramies, Mr. Bundeskanzler! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If my colleague boldly states that a European success will take place if we pay less, I must tell you: It can't be! This is the Europe line of the alleged ÖVP European Party: We want to pay as little as possible!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We are one of the richest countries in the European Union, and that is why the model “pay less, but get more out” is not European. We and this Federal Government are this Europe, and that means paying more.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8336	Madam President, your speaking time has unfortunately already been exceeded. I'll allow a final sentence. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: That was my last sentence!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: These were three final sentences!]] [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. May. Lunacek.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Bösch. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8387	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As a liberal, I also welcome the appointment of Mr Winkler State Secretary to the Federal Government. Of course, it would have been a failure, I say, to call you instead of another State Secretary, because – and I take away your first public statements – you do not actually intend to make politics, but really want to limit yourself to the role of a Secretary of the Foreign Minister, and I regret that. I regret this because we should have a member in the cabinet who deals exclusively with the European Union's agendas, because these agendas are no longer classical foreign policy or classical domestic policy, but require a particular political effort that we must make, because this issue is a very important one. Ladies and gentlemen! EU policy is in crisis. We should not discuss this away, we should accept it. We should also be clear that all policies must be re-jected into the scales of European policy. All policy areas need to be re-examined and discussed in principle over the next few months. This also includes financing. It is therefore good that the Austrian Federal Government has a clear objective here to maintain this 100% burden on net payment. We liberals support this and hope that the Austrian Federal Government will also succeed in these areas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also about the renationalisation of the various areas, I believe, to re-examine in principle. This is also not excluded from, for example, agricultural policy makers that it would be reasonable in these areas to rethink the task of sharing tasks between the European Union and Member States in order to bring these policies into a reasonable way. Tags such as “agricultural factories” have already fallen. I repeat her: ‘Agricultural factories’, ‘animal transports’, all these are tags that move people in Europe, but which have not yet been found a sufficient response from the European Union. The next point is enlargement. We must clearly see that enlargement, as it has been operated by the European levels so far, was a too rapid one. In the enlargement steps that have taken place, the citizens of the Union cannot follow politicians. It is mainly about the accession of the Republic of Turkey. No one has understood that the European Union on the one hand has great difficulties in an area with the negative effects of globalisation, but At the same time, a limitless extension is promulgated. The European Union has clearly observed that it clearly recognises its boundaries here and also has to formulate them. It must be said that it can only be said that, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, Mr Bundeskanzler – you, Mrs Foreign Minister, I am speaking in particular now, because the Secretary of State has announced that he will focus only on the EU Presidency: No accession negotiations with Turkey! I say this above all to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, because I have also experienced you as a decisive politician in the preparation for the December summit, because I have seen that you have nevertheless enforced positions of Austria, which were initially regarded as hopeless. And this closing paper of the December Summit clearly states that the negotiations with Turkey are open, that there should be a so-called stop button – you have translated – so that in the event of human rights violations and similar incidents these negotiations can be stopped at any time. This closing paper also states that, if Turkey does not join, it should come to a different form of cooperation, which is contractually defined with the Union. These three projects must now be put to the fore, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Foreign Minister. There will be a General Affairs Council during the summer, which will deal with this procedure once again. I would ask you to step in to ensure that the European Union becomes aware that the Republic of Turkey is not yet ready to enter into accession negotiations. I would ask you to take clear steps in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The announcement to hold a referendum on Turkey's arbitrary accession is good and right – I support it too – but it is not, I believe, the right way for negotiations with a country over many years, so to speak, to be held by the Carrot, but, if it is to be so far, a rejection in some national referendums. It would be fairer and fairer if the European Union said a priority: Turkey cannot become a member of the Union! We confess this and we say it openly and honestly! [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The other area is the new Constitutional Treaty. The EU Constitution, which has now failed, needs a replacement. We must strive to bring a new Constitutional Treaty to the rails here too, to discuss it across Europe in order to ensure that this Europe of 25 or 27 also works. It was the great value of the Constitutional Treaty that was drawn up to ensure that it was effective. It will also be an essential task of the Austrian Presidency to discuss this Constitutional Treaty and then to say from the outset that it will be subject to a plebiscitary decision. Today you have spoken again of a Europe-wide referendum. Mr Bundeskanzler, I welcome this, but a Europe-wide referendum cannot replace national competences. We cannot have a pan-European constituency in which a constitutional treaty is almost accepted, but at the same time it is rejected in a country like Austria. Then it is difficult to explain to the citizens of this country why the Constitutional Treaty is still in force. Therefore, a Europe-wide referendum can only be seen in connection with a national plebiscite. That is why we should also say this openly, and that is why the Austrian Presidency should also be that people in Europe have clarity on this issue. I believe it is important for Austria to hold this presidency in the first half of next year. I hope that in all these areas, Mr Bundeskanzler, in the area of financing, in the area of measures against unrestricted globalisation, in the area of enlargement, as well as in the area of referendum with regard to a new Constitutional Treaty, we will set real clear and citizens' accents.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8475	Mrs Plassnik, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke next. Mrs. Federal Minister, your speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8496	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! I am pleased that the team at the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Europe was strengthened with State Secretary Winkler. Both of us combine years of cooperation, decades of cooperation, a relationship of trust, and also the knowledge that State Secretary Winkler of the Federal Government, the Federal Government as a whole, will support a red and white-red Presidency in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am glad that we have thus sent a signal of professionalism, a signal also for the seriousness with which we face this task. From my point of view, the timing was entirely correct, because the temporary obligations have multiplied accordingly with the entry into the troika. During the British Presidency alone, there will be eight Foreign Ministers' meetings, seven Foreign Ministers' meetings or State Secretary's level with the European Parliament and 39 Third State meetings at ministerial level. And with these, only one State Secretary can represent me. The Presidency, which I have always said, also in this House, is a service that we provide to our partners in Europe and in the world. An EU Presidency is not particularly a stage for self-representation, it is not a representation event – that is ridiculous – and not even an election campaign. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I really ask that we take this task seriously, taking it all seriously. We, my team, State Secretary Winkler and I will work together in the substance, on all the subject topics that are on the table, whose relief is now more apparent after the last European Council. We must not, by the way, trust the British Presidency to pass on Europe in some respects. The British Presidency's agenda is also comprehensive, and we will also help the British to move forward as far as possible. In particular, I would like to mention the British Prime Minister's proposal to take a closer look at the sustainability of the European social model at a special meeting, an informal meeting of the Heads of State or Government in October. We will have an active presidency, we will be a committed presidency, we will act as a prudent foreman, but also as a bridge builder and mediator if possible. We can only reach agreement when 25 countries work together on one thing if we all agree. We're well prepared for this. Austria did not push for the necessary reforms within itself. Austria is a committed, credible European partner. We now have the opportunity to show that we will bring our benefits as a medium-sized, successful country, in the interests of European unification. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Europe is now facing a test, and the debates have shown it. There are cracks, cracks have become visible, but there has also been a lot of discomfort, a lot of anger expressed in the two referenda. And the crystallization point, the valve for that was the Constitutional Treaty. This Constitutional Treaty, ladies and gentlemen, has not landed in the waste paper container, this Constitutional Treaty has in the meantime also been approved by the Cypriot Parliament. Today, the Maltese Parliament is dealing with the Constitutional Treaty, and in a few days, on 10 October. A referendum will take place in Luxembourg on 1 July. We should take it seriously that the people and elected representatives of these countries also have an opportunity to express their assessment of the European Constitutional Treaty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should therefore continue to beware of putting fast-separate concepts or button-press solutions in the foreground. What is important is that a time of thought and pre-thinking begins now on this question. And this “time of reflection”, as stated in the decision of the Heads of State or Government of June, will be used in each of the EU countries for a detailed discussion in which citizens, civil society, social partners and national parliaments and political parties will participate. I'm asking you today: Let's get involved, get involved. We can only do it together. The core of this European debate, this Austrian European debate, which will take place, is for me the question: How do we want to live? It is the question of the European model of life, how we can make it future-proof in the globalised world. What do we want? – We want to live in peace in this Europe, we also want to develop the peace project Europe in our generation, where it is necessary, for example in the Balkans. We want sustainability, we want a good environmental policy, we want social security networks, we want cultural diversity and the diversity of life forms that can be combined into this specific European model of life. We therefore want to discuss with the citizens, Europe is listening. It is necessary to address the concerns of responding to the scepticism, of course also of criticism. We can and will lead this discussion controversially. In the end, however, from my point of view, something is already important to me: For us, for Austria, the European Union, Europe is something that benefits us, something that protects us – an experience that benefits us, an experience that protects us. My ministry, together with Secretary of State Winkler, will endeavour to do the best possible in the logistics of this presidency, in all matters, including in the organization, to bring Austrian interests effectively and to improve Europe – day by day, step by step in everyday work! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8599	The next item is the speech by Mr Arbitrator. The next speakers each have a speaking time of 5 minutes. That's very close. I'll run out in time. I am looking for precise compliance with the speaking time. Thank you. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8624	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High government bank! Federal Chancellor! It was very nice to mention Ernst Sucharipa, his death has met us all, he is missing all of us very much. [[General condolences and congratulations of the State Secretary, Dr. Winkler, sitting on the Government Bank.]] To the new Secretary of State: I know Hans Winkler for a very long time, I very much appreciate him, he is experienced, professional and diligent. He worked very well with the EU Parliament in Strasbourg, but also with the Foreign Policy Committee in the National Council. We wish him all the best for his task! [[General condolences.]] It is true that, on the occasion of the EU Presidency, a State Secretary will be appointed to the Foreign Office, and it would have been more appropriate to save another State Secretary. The best thing would have been – the foreign minister has spoken of the signal of professionalism – to break, on the occasion of the appointment of a Secretary of State, with the system that originated from the past, which my party used earlier, that there are state secretaries, which are actually installed for pro-prisation or for mutual control of government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: How is this in the Ministry of Finance?]] On the question of the EU Presidency. The state of the EU has made the task for Austria even more important, as has rightly been said. The Austrian Presidency is taking place in difficult times. That is why we ask for and what we have called for, namely the inclusion of all the political groups of this House in the preparation, in the intentions and in the content and time details, has also become more important. I am very glad that Mrs Foreign Minister has now promised this and is also scheduled to do so in the near future. But you also need to understand our concerns. It was our concern that the great European task of the Presidency, the Presidency concept, would be so pervaded by election debates that the opposition would simply not be taken into account and that we would not be informed on our own for this reason. I hope in the interests of our country that this concern is unfounded. On enlargement of the EU: I'm not on the line of those who want to have a quartz stop here. I believe that Bulgaria and Romania are on the right track to truly meet the conditions for accession, and I am also the next enlargement step for the pre-accession of the other countries of South-East Europe to the European Union with Croatia. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is not only in the interests of these countries and stability in the Balkans, but also in the interests of Austria, our security and our economy. In addition to these countries, our country will be among the greatest beneficiaries of such a process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] On the project Europe and on the crisis in relation to the Constitutional Treaty. We know that in the referenda, the Nos did not just pay for the Constitutional Treaty, but were unsuspecting signs, unsuspecting of democratic policy, social and other inadequacy in the EU. There must be a need to change these things in the EU. The Council itself and the Commission also have to face up to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The government parties have tabled a motion for a resolution. Our consent seems so important to them that they did not even show it to us before. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I shall therefore put forward my own motion for a resolution and explain to him in its basic guidelines that it is that motion for a resolution which has been submitted to the Subcommittee. [[Abg. Neudeck: I can't do that!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] If you agree, it will be good for Austria and for the Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8728	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian The motion for a resolution put forward by the arbitrators was submitted in writing. I have it because of its size according to § 53 para. 4 have GOG distributed. [[Abg. Neudeck: That can't be! He submits an application with the final sentence!]] The application is also under negotiation and will be annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8867	The next item is the report by Mr Grill Table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8888	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe was and is a profit for Austria, is a profit for the people who live here, both in terms of freedom and peace as well as in terms of security, but is above all a profit in terms of growth and employment, which is seen by comparing the figures with neighbouring countries such as Switzerland. How has the per capita income developed since 1995? – If Switzerland still had an advantage of €4,000 in 1995, it is only €1,000 today. The EU thus brings growth and prosperity. What about employment, employment? . Compared to 1995, there are 150 000 jobs in Austria and 70 000 in the Internal Market. I am glad to live here because I know that 30 000 of the 35 000 job seekers per year find a job in Austria. How has external trade been going since the 1st century? Since the enlargement of the European Union, has it developed in May 2004? – In 2004, the balance sheet showed € 11.3 billion, an increase of 13.5 percent compared to 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! What do I want to say? Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, I recognise growth, employment, research and development, and the need to provide appropriate impetus at European level, but we do not play these areas against agricultural policy in Europe and in Austria. Let's really look at these numbers correctly and accurately! The panic-making argument, which costs 40 per cent of the agricultural policy in Europe, may vote in favour of the EU budget, but we also know that agriculture is the only common policy area. It is therefore logical to consider carefully the expenditure of the national states. Then you'll notice that that's not 40 percent, but only 1.6%. We have been in Austria, I think, since 1986 with the eco-social path a very successful way. The first pillar, the economic pillar, must be strong so that one can afford the second and third pillars, namely the ecological and the social pillar. That's why it's not right if you, Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, say that 90 percent of the market-regulation premiums passed the farmers in Austria. – That’s just wrong! Out of the 190 000 farmers in Austria, 135 000 farmers receive market-regulation premiums. That is why this is very interesting for Austrian farmers, even though we know that we have set a priority in the second pillar, environmental programme and compensation allowance for miners. In this respect, we also have an exemplary relationship in Austria from a European point of view: We already use 70 percent of the funds for the second pillar and 40 percent for the first pillar. I think it's not quite right, therefore, if you say: I am for organic farmers, I am for miners, I am for environmentally sound agriculture! - So far, so good. But if you say, Now we have to cut these areas by 40 or 50 percent!, I tell you: They are, in fact, endangering precisely those farmers, namely the organic farmers, the miners and the rural areas as a whole! – Mr Gradwelt, sometimes it is better to listen! [[Abg. Gradwell: That that doesn't correspond to the truth, Fritz, you know much better!]] Therefore, I think we can be happy that Franz Fischler has succeeded in creating an EU position for the WTO negotiations, which includes precisely these elements of sustainability and our eco-social path. I would also like to remind you of Agenda 2000. At the time, in 1999 in Berlin, who proposed a company-size recession? – It was Wolfgang Schüssel and Wilhelm Molterer. And who rejected her? – That was Mr Blair and Mr Schröder. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who voted against it? Wilhelm Molterer! In no case did that happen, he said!]] In the CAP reform, who has made sure that we have financial security by the year 2013? – That was also our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. If you hold the big-little discussion, you only need to look at the Green Report. Our agricultural policy has benefited the farmers of Zone 4 from 2000 until now by €4,000 more, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore think that this Austrian agricultural model is a good model. I see this not only from the point of view of the farmers – I am coming to the end, Madam President! – but you have to see that from the point of view of consumers! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] With the 50 percent reduction, you are in fact risking food safety, environmentally friendly production, animal production, landscape conservation as the essential basis for tourism and, ultimately, the jobs of 530 000 Austrians. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8969	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e8990	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! I would just like to make a brief comment on this debate on the Secretary of State. You want to save one? - No, you should not be saved, Dr. Winkler! Or should we save a State Secretary elsewhere? – No, I also think that is verifiable, but not necessary. It would be very important for me to think about whether one could save one or the other Minister. After all, we have some ministers who would be ready for resignation, ladies and gentlemen. That would be worth considering! - But now it's serious. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: He's right!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: That was a joke anyway!]] [[Abg. Lentsch: Desirable dreams!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I have listened very attentively to you, as well as your remark: We need to listen carefully! - Yes. They have tried this in relation to the debate on the EU Constitution. They also brought a quote. I did not find your speech bad, Mr Bundeskanzler – quite seriously! – but in your speech you have left out points that would have been important, or you have remained abundantly imprecise where you have made indications. I'd like to explain this: They have referred to the model of an eco-social market economy as an example or as a model for Europe. You didn't clarify it. You have spoken of progress coming from the competition, Federal Chancellor! - That's wrong! In my opinion, the history of the European Union is a clear proof that progress is no longer just as it was in 19. ==References====External links==* Official website This does not mean a No to competition, but to complement competition and competition through cooperation. This was the great achievement of the establishment of the European Union, which has been said: We want to replace and expand this mutual competition in the heavy industry between France and Germany by a new model, by a politically complementary model! – That was progress! ==References====External links== Throughout the century, Mr Bundeskanzler, within this European Union, we cannot and will not insist that we let 25 national states compete against each other. It can only succeed if these 25 countries cooperate within Europe. Yes, the economy should be exposed to competition, but the 25 European countries must cooperate and form a political model! They quoted the former Romanian Foreign Minister. I would now like to quote the philosopher Slavoj Žižek. He was against the Constitution. One can argue well and nicely, why and whether his reasons were sufficient. I think a quote is essential. He writes in his “profile” article: “To say it out freely: Do we want to live in a world where we can only decide between American civilization on the one hand and Chinese, authoritarian-capitalist civilization on the other? If not, then Europe is the only alternative.” Yes, Federal Chancellor, it is worth thinking about! If the American model is not the alternative, if the Chinese-authoritarian model is not the alternative, then Europe is in demand: as an example, as an example, as it occurs in other exchange relations with other countries, as it does not primarily live on free trade zones in which only capital is free, but the people working in the free trade zones are absolutely infree, as it does not prefer this development model, but another open development model. But please, Federal Chancellor, this must also be lived within the European Union. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Then it cannot be lived by borders, by bans, by rigidities, but only by cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9106	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9127	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! After the SPÖ colleagues have repeatedly brought the number of members of government and, above all, the fact of a new Secretary of State, I must remind you of how it looked among your governments, so that this can be said clearly and clearly. In the government of Sinowatz you had a total of 24 government posts, in the government of Vranitzky I you had 22 government posts, in the government of Vranitzky II – I don't know what happened – there were only 17 government posts, but in the government of Vranitzky III there were 20 government posts again, and in the government of Vranitzky IV there were 21 government posts. In these governments there were more and more ministers than at present, and we all know: Ministers cost more money than State Secretary. Turn at your own door before you start criticizing this government when it comes to posts! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we address the referendums in France and the Netherlands, we must take seriously the concerns and fears of the population. It is about an expression of dissatisfaction with EU policy, an expression of a lack of understanding of EU funding, but also an expression of the lack of power of the population vis-à-vis the EU institutions. These are things we need to take seriously. We must address the concerns and fears of the population, express the scepticism out loud and say the opinion that exists in the population: that the EU is working only for the institutions and not for the people. We must take this up and bring it into the EU's bodies in Brussels and bring about changes and improvements there! We must also work there – and it must be possible to say that aloud – for the interests of Austria and in the EU well represent the interests of the small country of Austria. You have to be allowed to say this out loud without saying the same thing: It's going to be sad. It must be possible to represent the interests of Austria also in the EU. Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen speaks not only of Jarel, but also of Herumeiers, when it comes to percentage points and numbers, I have looked at these numbers exactly where you are talking about Herumeiers. With regard to the Austrian gross contributions, the difference is between 1 percent and 1.24 percent, 2.3 billion € and 2.8 billion €, 500 million €! That's not a locust! The difference in net contributions, which are either 1 per cent or 1.24 per cent, is also large: It is the difference between € 800 million and € 1 billion. This results in a difference of €200 million in net contributions – that is, in what we need to pay net! Even though everyone is proud today that we have the euro and no longer the schilling, that sounds a little different in Schilling: Because that would make up 2.7 billion Austrian schillings, which are no longer available. That's a very high sum! I really think it is objectionable to have the discussion of €200 million – these few percentage points! – to be referred to as herumiers. I am glad that the Federal Government is working for percentage points and that it also looks a few percentage points better in terms of net contributions for Austria than before, and we are committed to improving this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] I thank the Federal Government for this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even if we take the concerns and fears of the population seriously, it will not be enough for the Commissioners to say that they travel to all European countries and see that they are more among the population, but it is also important to really improve and change something here. That means: To send a signal that the EU is becoming more citizens-friendly, to the citizens, to the individual, to make it easier to manage, to better inform the population – that is also a basic need – not only in the form of high-gloss brochures, but also in real facts and facts. It is also important that there is no scandals about money waste. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: Get in touch with your party owner! Jörg Haider!]] This too is a point that has contributed a lot to the dissatisfaction within the EU. It is also important to respond to the fear of globalisation. People are afraid of it because they do not know what is happening to them. In this respect, the EU must set up activities. Unemployment must be countered in common objectives. There must not be products in some EU countries that are cheaper than in other EU countries, because they are produced as in Asia, for example, where there are no environmental or social standards. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Therefore, we also need to put in place measures and facts within the EU to improve this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9191	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9212	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! For a few days Austria has been a member of the Troika. Together with the United Kingdom and the European Commission, we are already representing Europe outside today. Austria will play an even more crucial role in just under six months if our country takes over the EU Presidency for the second time. I look forward to this task with great respect, but I am also looking forward to addressing this difficult task together with the Foreign Minister. I would like to thank you very much for the words of support and encouragement that I have heard here today. The task that Austria takes over is not easy. I understand her as the Minister for Foreign Affairs as a service to Europe and to the world. Together we will ensure an active presence on the international stage. It is also a sign that we are taking our partners in the world seriously. My first trip as Secretary of State will lead me in a few days to Dubrovnik to an informal ministerial meeting of the South-East European states. It will be there for me, as a Secretary of State, covering all the agendas of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the opportunity to contact and express our continued interest with the Foreign Ministers of the region, who were already important to Austria in the past and who will be in the future and, above all, during our presidency. In this sense, it is to be welcomed that the European Council has noted and confirmed that the countries of this region have a European perspective. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! I attach particular importance to the parliamentary dimension of presidential work in Austria and at European level. A trusting cooperation with the European Parliament is essential to the success of each Presidency. One of my tasks, which is important to me and which I am particularly looking forward to, will be to maintain these contacts particularly well. The dialogue with the Austrian Parliament is also important to me, because it is Austria as a whole that will hold the Presidency and that must prove itself in the Presidency. I am therefore particularly concerned about cooperation with all of you. High house! The EU Presidency is not a project of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone. The entire Federal Government will be required, and all other departments will have to take over presidency positions in the total of 162 EU Council bodies. Close intra-Austrian voting will be essential. We are aware of this great challenge, and we are well prepared. Preparation has been in progress for a long time and not only since 4. July 2005, the day of my fishing. The number of meetings, meetings and conferences will be much greater than during our first presidency. So there will be a wealth of tasks coming to us. There can't be everything planned, and there may also be pans of organizational kind. But how does Shakespeare say: There are tides also for our doing. But what seems to me particularly important is to strengthen the sensory capacity of all those entrusted with the implementation and planning of this difficult task, not only to agree and prepare for this service to Europe in the interests of people, but also to convey a sense of enthusiasm and European solidarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I hope I will bring this enthusiasm. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9286	We are now coming to the last round during the television broadcast. I am going to give Mrs Csörgits 4 minutes of speaking time and subtracte the one minute that Mr Arbitrator has overlaid, and the other Members have 5 minutes. Mrs Csörgits, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9322	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! I can only give Mr Winkler the right to say that it is important to bring enthusiasm and solidarity to Europe, but I believe that it is also important and crucial, particularly in the context of European solidarity, to oppose the area of combating unemployment, combating the reduction of social achievements. I am very glad that today, in many speeches, both by the Federal Chancellor and by the Foreign Minister, the social dimension in Europe has also been pointed out, however, I have the impression – and I would like to show this by two examples – that although this is spoken here, the action in Brussels is often different. And this very difference, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, makes the population uncertain. What do I mean by that? – As the first point, I refer to the presentation of the EU Services Directive with the principle of origin. What does that mean? I would like to explain this on the basis of an example: An employer, for example, has the opportunity to establish a subsidiary in Hungary, and can employ employees in Austria, regardless of which nation, in this subsidiary – and can, of course, grant them in Austria. However, the rules of the Labour Act apply – in order to remain with this example – of Hungary, as well as the consumer protection provisions of Hungary. There are also many other laws from Hungary, precisely because of the principle of origin. This means that those achievements we Austrians, especially trade unions and social democracy, have been undermined. This creates two classes of workers! This, ladies and gentlemen, is not social – and I do not understand it under a social dimension in Europe! Since, Mr Bundeskanzler, I would also like to point out that in his 2005 economic report, the Federal Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs points out that a service directive will only have effect for him if the country of origin principle is included. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I already agree, Federal Chancellor, if you say: Competition means progress, but would like fair competition for our employees! We should not focus on the criteria of those countries where people do not yet have such good working conditions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second example is the working time directive of the European Union. Very briefly: In the field of the European Union, we want to remove all the rules relating to maximum limits. Regrettably, the Austrian Federal Government – and especially Mr Bartenstein – is a sniper in Europe. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What does “Sharfmaker ” mean? What is a “sharpmaker” in the Union?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we want our employees not to be forced to work around the clock – and the opt-out offers this opportunity – this also means in this service directive and in the working time directive: Back to the start, in the sense of the workers. It's a core competence. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is how a social Europe can look. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9399	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9420	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that we have a new State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – and that I am also very pleased that this State Secretary is Hans Winkler. I say this not only as a European speaker of the ÖVP club, but also personally, because I have known Hans Winkler since my youth: Hans Winkler was not only my school, but also my classmate; we have graduated from each other, and I can only say: I already met Hans Winkler at the time as a person who is not only competent and communicative, but also collegial and absolutely reliable. – Mrs Federal Minister, I can only congratulate you on this election! [[General condolences.]] We have an excellent constellation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mrs. Plassnik understood the need to make her own manuscript noticeable in just a very short time, and she also enforced herself internationally. I believe, also with the Secretary-General of the Foreign Office, as well as with the Political Director, that we have excellent personalities and are well equipped for the EU Presidency. If we still assume that the Federal Chancellor also plays a very important foreign policy role in Europe, a role that goes far beyond the importance of our country, and that he has also come through his proposal to entrust our former Foreign Minister, Dr Ferrero-Waldner, to the EU's external commissioner, Austria really has the very best conditions for the forthcoming EU Presidency. However, what I don't quite understand – I also want to say – is that immediately criticism of the opposition as well as the remark that another State Secretary should have gone away. [[Abg. Eder: No! Two!]] – The opposite is the case, since Austria cannot just give up government in an EU Presidency! That is in the interests of Austria! The interest of Austria must not come to the custodian through our presidency! Now tell me where you want to save from the opposition! [[Call the SPÖ: At the birthday celebrations for Morak!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Morak! Finz!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Should we make less for social or disability policy? Should we make less for sports promotion? Should we refrain from the accents in the field of research and development, or should we, for example, in the administrative reform – or in the large cultural country of Austria, should we perhaps refrain from the Art State Secretary? Completely wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Finz! Grasser...!]] On the contrary: We can not only be glad that we already have very competent and experienced staff of the ministers there, but we also have to say: It is the consistently supportive personalities for the Minister or the Minister, and without that it would mean a “supervisor function” for another party, as is often tried to represent. [[Call the SPÖ:Finz and Grass...!]] Five of the seven State Secretarys are not attached to a minister who belongs to the other Government Party, but are located in a department headed by a member of the same Party. I think you should take note of this! I was a little surprised today at the fact that, from the Social Democratic side, there was a slight turning point of view from the turn of foreign policy, but I would also like to say that I did not find this unsympathetic. In the S & D Party, there have been discussions about the foreign policy line of its chairman – and it has obviously succeeded in re-establishing him. But what I didn't fully understand and what amazed me, was why Tony Blair is suddenly the great model for Alfred Gusenbauer. I would like to ask Mr Csörgits, who spoke before me: Was it not the red, neoliberal Tony Blair, who absolutely wanted to enforce the Services Directive? Was it not the red neoliberal Tony Blair who did not want the transitional provisions for the new EU members? Is it not the red, neoliberal Tony Blair, who absolutely wants Turkey, in the shortest time, as a full member of the EU? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And isn't it the red, neoliberal Tony Blair, who has prevented the Europeans from acting together in the global context so far? I am confident Tony Blair that he too will take a slight turn and perhaps take a different line, but I think we should look at this approach differently – and above all, we should try to work together to strengthen Europe, because Europe has great importance for the future, including Austria. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] And there should be a common line of government and opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9547	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9568	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Gentlemen on the government bank! Mr. State Secretary Winkler! After all, we Greens have a positive suspicion that this government is wasting all kinds of things; some say “ance-uprangers”. I would like to point out at this point that I have been irritated by some of the things that have come to my mind, because: A State Secretariat for Europe has actually been overdue, now it was only very useful – and it is a useful investment. It can become an outstanding investment, but at least it is a useful investment. [[We welcome the Greens and the ÖVP, as well as representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, if this is a useful investment, it is unlikely that you will be able to get the comment where the other Secretary of State is actually the benefit. – It is probably still hidden in a certain way. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Be’s drum: Let's end the grossenklaufery, let's turn to the real things! Mr Winkler, the Secretary of State, has a great deal of success in the sense of European development! This can and must be held in this debate – also on the opposition side – but: what European development? Let us come to the current statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. He has put the question of the economic system at the centre of his remarks, and he has re-deco-socialised the social, eco-social market economy, the “mantra” of the ÖVP. - Okay. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Let us look at developments in the European Union in this area – and I add that this can not only be a matter of the Union alone if there are shortcomings, but also of the co-decision Member States. It's just a dilemma to organize politics with so many states. You have to admit that, but you still have to stick to where there are misdevelopments. When we talk about the market economy, it must be clear that it needs a controlling state – in the best sense. In the areas of agricultural policy, transport policy and social policy, which have been adopted here, there is a huge failure and a huge mismanagement which has partly been achieved politically. And there's the lever on. Agricultural factories? – Yes, there is; worse still: the export subsidies. It is a fact that most of the EU's funding and therefore the EU budget goes into this wrong agricultural control. This is the case now, but should be different. The main problem is not even that there are too many resources in there, but the main problem is that it goes into the completely wrong channels. We Greens would be very likely to promote a reasonable development and support of the rural area – I am allowed to borrow this term. As you know, however, this requires a different agricultural policy. More than half the population of Europe lives in the so-called rural area, and it will probably be allowed to do so – but the answers will be given faster than in seven or ten years – to question these things. Whether to buy this for a Tony Blair is another question, but it's still put right. In any case, we shouldn't be small, but we should align the navigator properly. Next point: the question of transport, a central question in economic policy. We need far less thought about regional economic policies or the like, if truck transport were to bear only about the costs it actually causes. But, no, no, no, no, no, no, The European Union, together with its Member States, is a pioneer in the fact that truck traffic is only not charged with the costs it causes, in the present against the environment and at the expense of future generations! A huge miscontrol, the Europe that the European Union is responsible for! – Time to counter-tax when we are already talking about economic policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – That Austria’s contributions have had a modest impact on this, only as a marginal remark. Even more dramatic is the failure of a coordinated European policy on the social issue. This is to be set as such. Of course, it is imperative that, if there are strict harmonisation rules only on monetary and financial policy, dumping is going down at all other political levels. We are manoeuvring our eyes into a process – I say: some are deliberately doing this – in a race down, from which individual governments can no longer escape, because just then the corporations move where they are already waiting with the largest subsidy or tax axle stopper. Austria is not the victim of this process, but Austria has become perpetrators, and you just have to put your finger on this wound. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] That's where it's up to you to counter it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Thank you, Madam President. My final sentence is...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9679	That was your final point. I'm sorry, otherwise it won't go out with time! [[In the case of the Greens, please welcome the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9713	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Much has been discussed today about the failure of the EU Constitution, as well as the financial problem in Europe, and I believe that there should be a discussion here across all party borders: What can you do about it? How to counter it? How can consensus be found here? This criticism, this negative referendum both in France and in the Netherlands, does not come about: This is the concern of citizens who, in fact, no longer recognize themselves, who, in part, do not understand why the European Union is being expanded without informing the people why it should be extended so quickly and so strongly without creating the necessary framework conditions. If you are critical as a party – as we do – it does not mean that you are against Europe. We from the future alliance of Austria are not against Europe, but we have a critical attitude, which, as I believe, is only good on such an important question. I believe that we should take advantage of the opportunity that Europe has now given itself, so to speak, to build up alternatives, to set new things in motion, to think about redeployments and new skills, so that perhaps a new path may also be taken to give Europe more competences in areas such as security policy, economic policy or tax policy, in order to enable, for example, kerosene to be taxed, in order to make use of financial resources, which we can then implement again in Europe, but on the other hand, we may also be going to take back skills. As BZÖ speakers, for example, I am thinking of renationalisation in relation to agricultural support. There was a lot of discussion about this, and, Mr Grillitsch, when you read the “standard” of three days ago: Your own Commissioner for Agriculture, Franz Fischler, is in favour of such a renationalisation. Franz Fischler, who was always a representative of the opposite, now also says: Let's think about it! Let us see how we can better set up competences and make sure to make optimum use of the scope we all need for agricultural policy – in our businesses, in the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria – without endangering the overall project of agricultural policy. I believe that we all agree that it is very difficult and very compromiseable to have a common agricultural policy from Gibraltar to Northern Germany. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. We will have to take new steps, but we will also have to think about creating more national scope in order to promote and support our rural farms. This is the third important issue, namely the overall financing of the European Union. In this context, I urge the Federal Government to stick to this 1 per cent requirement, but not because these 1.0 per cent would make Austria poor or rich, but because I believe that it is preferable to use the alternatives to say, for example: This British discount is unsustainable, these over €14 billion in the next few years cannot be held; there must be a clear no. I think that the EU Presidency of the Council of Austria is a chance, namely that we will send a signal to the British, so that the Union has changed, that there are new framework conditions and that discounts, as they were made many years ago, are no longer sustainable in the present day. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the subject of enlargement: Here again, I believe that the ‘no’ of European citizens in the referendum on the Constitution has shown us that we must respect it. I am convinced that the accession of Romania and Bulgaria should be postponed by at least one year during the period of time and that the scope should be used by 2008. On the question of Turkey, I am convinced that we should: negotiate – yes, we can do so; We should create prospects for Turkey, yes, but there should be a great “yes” about accession, because I think, as long as the framework conditions of economic, human rights and whatever nature are not available, it will make no sense to lead this state to the European Union. In this sense, I wish the Federal Government a hopefully labour-intensive time in the European Union and hopefully a Presidency with which it can deal very well and in the interest of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9777	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Bauer. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9801	Mr President. High government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The speakers in France and the Netherlands have triggered a wave of discussions. Although we all know that internal policy issues have played an important role there, we should ultimately not reduce these votes, but rather recognize that EU scepticism has become more tangible and that, ultimately, future fears can also be found everywhere. In that sense, I believe, one should also understand that it is now up to the politicians to represent Europe. We need not less Europe, but more Europe, in a dialogue with citizens. I would like to quote the press on 14 June, which says: Talking with split tongues, namely state-bearing in Brussels and critically to overcritically at home, this must end once! If I just think about what this looks like in Austria itself: For example, Mr. Grasser, Federal Minister, said that it should be on 3 March. It will not begin to negotiate with Turkey in October. That remained incontrovertible. A day later, Mrs. Plassnik said exactly the opposite: All decisions on enlargement must be fully implemented. Or: According to what I have heard today, Chancellor Schüssel is more of a view that we are on our way to the European state. Others, such as the coalition partner FPÖ or BZÖ, are more likely to believe that it is a Europe of the father countries. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This means, even though we can agree on the financial framework, that deep cracks exist in Europe, between those who believe in the political Europe, symbolised by the Constitution, and those who are satisfied with the victory of the market. I think that is the real discussion, ladies and gentlemen. I have already said that Europe needs ideals again, namely ideals, to believe more in this Europe. This means that, for whatever reason, it must not stop the efforts for more Europe, but rather the role of Europe in a globalised world. I think this is very important. The opportunity lies in the rise to a world power with which citizens can identify themselves. Europe – and that is what German Chancellor Schröder said – also needs a signal of unanimity. Because what we have experienced is really sad when you think that you really get away in little things and you don't know the big line of Europe too little. I would therefore like to say that the position of the Heads of Government, namely, ‘Europe, please wait!’, is not a real signal to Europe. Schüssel has said that it is “in the waiting loop” and that means that we may be talking about a common constitution in 2008 or 2009. I don't think that's the right scale we're supposed to feel committed to. I personally believe that we should not only create this strong, social Europe, but we must do so in the sense of a model region in the globalised world. This means that this Europe must also become more and more a social Europe, ultimately becoming a Europe of citizens. In that sense, Mr Winkler State Secretary: Good luck in your future activities in the interests of Austria and in the interests of Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9850	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9871	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The No to the European Constitution in France and the Netherlands shows that, despite the benefits of the Austrian economy and the Western European economy, Europe is in fact in what a critical situation. In his June issue from Calais, the “spiegel” reports and writes that people there say: “We want a Europe, but not this.” In Calais, you have to know, there is an unemployment of 15 to 40 percent in some regions: unemployed fishermen, couples, sailors and miners who once produced the Calais peak to tens of thousands before Europe's textile markets opened up in the world. A second example was given by the ORF in his TV show “Am Schauplatz” on 28 October. June. There, workers from Ruzomberok – this is in Central Slovakia – said in the interview: We work here in an Austrian company on wages as in a banana republic and live at prices as in old Europe. If I still take the unemployment figures of Austria from June – there were 211 310 people, young and older, all of whom have to work longer or are supposed to work at the same time – then, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the criticism or rejection of some people towards Europe. A European policy that makes 20 million people unemployed finds, as the examples show, that in many parts of Europe there is no agreement among the population! The Heads of Government of the individual Member States, the European Council, but also the Finance Ministers of the Member States, the Commission and the national governments must stop the unrestricted globalisation. The heads of state and government had themselves on 16 and 17. At its summit on June, as a signal for the people of Europe, we must take the time to tell people what the immediate and long-term development of Europe can and will look like. The pace and scope of political development have simply overwhelmed Europeans, such as governments such as peoples, over the last one and a half decades. European Heads of Government, who are willing to give a common Europe a constitution but at the same time appear incapable of setting limits, both geographical and political, which insecures the people of Europe, and “the audience leaves the hall”, writes the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” of 13. June. Estimated Mrs. Foreign Minister! Gentlemen on the government bank! I ask all of you to stand up for the creation of a common Europe in which we can all find work within Europe where economic development can take place and where people can invest and secure their jobs due to their work. Mr. State Secretary Dr. Winkler, I wish you much strength and success! I also wish you the sensorium you have addressed, and that you address it to the Heads of State or Government when it comes to directions that have a bad impact not only on people but also on the economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9922	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9944	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to congratulate you, Mr State Secretary, on your new role and wish you all the best. You yourself have said that a difficult time is coming for the European Union and that the European Union is in crisis. I think you should not try to talk about this, because you can only deal with crises if you take them seriously and try to solve the problems really. This is a crisis in which the European Union itself has been manoeuvring. Because we are constantly experiencing that compromises are being made, which are not that the Heads of State or Government are going home after negotiations, when they have agreed on anything at the last minute, and then the implementation not working. For example, we have seen this in the Lisbon Strategy and we have just recently discussed it. That is why the unfortunate situation has now arisen that in two countries of the European Union, people have expressed their serious discomfort by rejecting the Treaty. This is unfortunate because the Treaty would certainly have been a progress towards Nice. I asked the Chancellor of the Constitutional Committee what he intends to do or what the Heads of State intend to do when France is actually voting against it. He has treated this question as quite absurd. I also now note with regret that there has obviously been no strategy for this situation, and that is really an additional problem. What people expect from the European Union is clear. It has also been mentioned several times that they want a Union that improves people's lives, not an unlimited liberalisation, but fair competition, a competition in which there are also workers' protection and social protection, and where people, when they get sick, can be sure that they have good health care. They want a prosperity zone in Europe. This brings me to another point that is very important to me, namely the financial perspective. Perhaps a solution will only be found under the Austrian Presidency. It seems important to me that the funding is distributed not only by subject areas, but also in the way that the new Member States are preferred to the old net recipients. I think there must be success after a long time of support, while it is obvious to the new Member States that they need our support and our solidarity. Therefore, I expect that there will also be movement in this direction. This crisis is certainly also an opportunity: a chance to consider what the really important issues are and what the real concerns of the people are. It is a strong Europe, a Europe capable of action, and this is an absolute necessity for this continent, for its further development and also for its competitiveness.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e9992	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10013	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I too wish you all the best, Mr State Secretary, on your way in Europe. I may also be able to provide you with a little information today, because I have only recently participated in the discussion of the national budget presidents with the EU Committee on Budgets. My impression there was that the question of financing in Europe is really about a fundamental renewal. Otherwise, I think there will be no agreement next year. I think Austria will be able to speak with a strong voice and must make progress here. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only tell you that this debate in the European Parliament, which has been very interesting, has made one very clear: There will be no sustainability for the European discount in Great Britain This will certainly have to fall. The British have also signalled a willingness to talk in this regard: You can imagine that very well, and it will not fail. However, the British also want to see other reforms in the European Union's financial sector, for example – which has also been clearly addressed – the renationalisation of agricultural funding and rural funding. I believe that we should be able to hold such a debate and also to debate and discuss a complete restructuring of European finances openly. This does not necessarily have to be to the detriment of the Austrian population and, in particular, of Austrian agriculture. I would also like to mention in this context that even Franz Fischler says that every euro invested in research at European level can work better in this respect than any euro that will be invested nationally. In agriculture, he says, this is different. No matter whether the support comes from the EU or Austria, it does not change the system – it criticises the system of course – on the contrary, he says that it may be: The closer, the better. Unfortunately, Franz Fischler did not get through with his reform proposals last year, because the Austrian ÖVP representatives did not want to accept these proposals; I would like to remind them of this and also to blame them. I think it is time to hold this debate. It is time to implement this debate without reservations in the Austrian Parliament, in the European Parliament and at government level. For I believe that Europe needs to take a new approach to its financial policy and to pursue a more open development policy strategy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10056	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take your seat, because we are now voting. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Spindelegger, Mr Scheibner, Mr President, on the financial perspective of the European Union and on the Austrian negotiating position. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority, and so the request has been accepted. (E 115.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament on the future financing of the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. [[13:18:51]] 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (836, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on the Equality of Persons with Disabilities (Bundes-Disability Equality Act - BGStG) and the Disability Regulation, the Federal Disability Act, the Federal Social Office Act, the Equal Treatment Act, the Federal Law on the Equal Treatment Commission and the Equal Treatment Procuratorship as well as the Federal Equal Treatment Act (1028 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (832 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, and on the applications 89/A (E) by Mrs Theresia Haidlmayr, colleagues on the recognition of the Austrian sign language (ÖGS), 156/A by Mr Mag. Christine Lapp, colleagues in the Federal Constitutional Act, which recognises the sign language in the Federal Constitutional Act, 431/A by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr, colleagues in the Federal Constitutional Act, which enshrines the Austrian sign language in the Federal Constitutional Act; and 449/A (E) by Dr Franz-Joseph Huainigg, Dr Helene Partik-Pablé, colleagues on the recognition of the Austrian sign language and on the Citizens' Initiative (5/BI) on ‘Equal opportunities for deaf people in the Austrian education system’ and the Petitions (11/PET) on ‘Equal opportunities for deaf people in the Austrian education system’ (in substance equal to citizens’ initiative No. 5), presented by Dr Franz-Joseph Huainigg, Mag. Christine Lapp, Dr. Helene Partik-Pabléund Theresia Haidlmayr(1029 d.B.) 4. Point The Constitutional Committee's report on the petition (27/PET) on 'A resolution for the re-establishment of income-independent exemption for deaf and deaf persons', presented by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr(1030 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10214	We shall now come to points 2 to 4 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. This debate is being interpreted in sign language. Does one of the two rapporteurs wish to speak? - That's not the case. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10244	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Today is a very important day: The recognition of the Austrian sign language becomes reality. A sign of this is the turquoise ribbon that the speakers of my group will carry on this debate. As SPÖ, we were able to submit our proposals and opinions in the legal regulation of sign language. We therefore also agree to the recognition of the sign language and, with this our agreement, put the end to a long-standing discussion, which was marked by many conflicts. There was a European directive to be transposed into the Law on the Equality of Disabled Persons, which was to be implemented by the year 2003. There have now been four-party resolution requests and a lot of efforts, many initiatives by dedicated stakeholders, stakeholders, politicians, lawyers. There was a very dedicated preliminary draft by the Ministry, which lost many teeth as part of the review. What's this about? – Disabled people in our society experience barriers, are excluded, do not reach facilities, do not reach buildings, do not reach various representations on the Internet. This is where it is necessary to achieve equality, to bring about equality within the legal framework. The government has made efforts with today's government proposal and with the amendments. I don't want to agree with her. However, not enough strength has been exerted to enable disabled people to achieve equality in order to grant disabled people the rights of citizens. How many people are in Austria? - 800 000 people in Austria are disabled and disabled. They also have a lot of relatives, friends, acquaintances. The life situation is characterized by the fact that you have to consider exactly how to shape your day, what possibilities and what accesses you have. In the field of education, for example, integration into the Austrian schools is regulated by law, but the design of the integration of the federal state to the federal state is different. There are very large barriers here. There is no single word in this law on equal treatment for disabled persons, and this is very bad. You missed a chance here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: School matter can be found in the school laws!]] The opposite is the case! In the case of an amendment to the Constitutional Committee, you have now also concluded that universities should achieve accessibility. Even there you missed a chance and didn't reach your power. What about the removal of barriers, of spatial barriers in our society? – It is about the accessibility of banknotes, of shops, of facilities, of offices and of the Internet. The entrances must be designed differently for wheelchair drivers, for blind people, for deaf people. Here a lot of know-how, fingertips and initiative is required. Having in the Equality Act It states that the removal of barriers should be allowed, but at the same time that this should only happen on a very far-off day in 2015. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true! It's about that this should be done by then at the latest! It is a step-by-step implementation!]] You didn't have the power here. Another point of our criticism concerns the action of the association. Disabled people do not have a large lobby, nor do they usually have very large wallets with which they can get a right and engage lawyers. The association action gives clubs the opportunity to support disabled people. Here you have built in such a complicated formulation that the way to the Salzamt für disabled people will probably be easier than the way over the association action. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true either! That's not true!]] The Federal Disability Advisory Council must give its assent with two thirds of the votes in order to open an association action. This is wasteful of forces of people with disabilities. Another criticism on our part is the disabled lawyer. At a press conference today, Mr Huainigg said that the disabled lawyer was free of charge. That is not true, because there is a need for constitutional competence and no constitutional competence has been built in respect of the function of the disabled lawyer. The disabled lawyer can hold down speech, can drive through the countries, can assist disabled people with comfort. But he is not a strong lawyer, she is not a strong lawyer for the interests and concerns of disabled people. This is also the subject of criticism on our part. I would like to make an amendment calling for a right of omission. It can not only be that barriers are being removed or punished, but it must be sought that barriers always remain clear and not only in the individual case. Furthermore, in the context of the association complaint, the disability organisations and organisations are also to be treated in accordance with § 29 Consumer Protection Act. We have also made a change in the burden of proof. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, I agree that your colleague, Dr. Huainigg, has certainly made a very strong effort, but the power of your two government groups has not given rise to the fact that disabled people in Austria are really equal. Support our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10319	Mrs Mag. The amendment presented in its core points is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. According to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed to Members and shall be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10476	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10497	Mr President. Minister! High house! I think it's a day of joy for disabled people. It is a historic moment that we are today implementing a decades-long demand for disabled people with the equality law and recognition of sign language. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Parliament has already learned a lot about sign language through the sign language course, and it is a great language that is finally recognized. Finally, it is no longer said that certain people are deaf, but we give them back their language: the sign language. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to welcome members of the association “equalizent”, a work project by deaf and hearing workers, which shows how advanced vocational training can be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With the Handicapped Equality Act, we carry out a paradigm change – away from alms and pity to self-determination, integration and an inclusive society. The fact that this is not granted to a conservative government is very sad. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would just like to remind you that even in America, the ADA has been decided by a conservative government. It must also be said that the success of the ADA in America was that of the economy. There have been tough talks, many negotiations. We didn't make it easy on both sides, I have to say. There has been a good compromise which, I believe, is really appropriate to show an exemplary way forward. The Equality Act includes accessibility. Everything that is new must be immediately accessible with in-force steps of the law. There are, of course, transitional periods. That's what it takes. You can't change the world overnight with a finger snap. But equality is a way. We are going this way consistently. I am not afraid to call this path a new ADA, namely the Austrians with Disabilities Act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The opposition has carried out a lot of uncertainty policy over the past few days, even today, namely that the disabled lawyer would not be wise. That's not true. He's pointless, he's got skills. [[Abg. May. Lapp: He lacks the constitutional competence to do so!]] He shall be informed of any conciliation procedure. He has seat and voice in the Federal Disability Advisory Council, which by the way has his seat at the Stubentor. I don't know where the "Salzamt" is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a restaurant in the first district!]] Another criticism is that education is not included in the package, in the equality law. Unfortunately, there is nowhere in no equality law. This is not possible either because it concerns legislation on matter. Of course, the integration of disabled children must also be further forced, but not in the Equality Act, but in other laws. That's what we're gonna do. We'll change material laws. We have already planned for autumn to adopt a bundle law, where the requirement for access to the profession is also changed, so that the blind judge, the disabled teacher, the deaf masseur will finally become reality. We want facts. We will create facts that have not been achieved by previous governments. I would like, above all, to thank the head of the ex-minister who has been very committed, the officials of the Social Ministry who have really submitted a good law, and also Minister Haubner and State Secretary Dolinschek. Finally, in the usual way, a small sign language course. [[The speaker has the following words spoken slowly translated into sign language.]] We're learning today: Equality law – now! Recognition of sign language – now! The aim is achieved. But the way continues. And to refresh the word “special meeting”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10593	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10615	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the issue of disability equality has at all come to Parliament is the responsibility of the Greens – and nobody else! I would like to make that clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens and also my person, I believe, have contributed most importantly to the fact that you have finally understood that people with disabilities cannot simply be discriminated against because it is funny. [[Abg. Großruck: And there is no Huainigg!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] We, ladies and gentlemen, have been calling for a law on equal treatment for the disabled since 1997 which also deserves its name. But what is available today for decision-making does not deserve his name, and that is sad. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not right!]] You can look up at the gallery. I remember 1997. The gallery was full of people with disabilities, who were happy with us that there was the Constitution. At the time of this debate, it was said that we needed a law of equality, which also deserves its name, which is also filled with life. None of these people are sitting there today. That's why they're not sitting there because there's nothing to celebrate. Be clear about this once! What you have presented to us is a nice list of discrimination that should no longer exist. But if they are in the future, they are still legitimated. Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, there is no injunction or elimination of discrimination in this law. That does not provide for this law. That is, if someone today sets up a state of discrimination, he'll put it in place. He can maintain him, he doesn't have to remove him. We didn't want to. We wanted to prevent discrimination and not maintain it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm tabling an amendment. It is very long, so it will also be distributed to you, which is exactly what I want to say now, where it is shown, where it is still hectic, so that we in Austria do not have a law of equality and no indictable rights for people with disabilities. I would like to begin with the area of accessibility. Accessibility is a basic requirement for people with disabilities so that they can move in public space. But what accessibility must be, ladies and gentlemen, you have refused to write into this law, because accessibility means: after the last state of the art. That would be important. But that's not in this law. Mr Scheibner! I don't know if you know it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course!]] Look at it! Let's not discuss it! You just need to look into it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The equality of people with disabilities means that they are equated in all areas of life – from kindergarten to old age, yes, we say, to death. You can't find anything in here. It is not mentioned in the kindergarten, it is not mentioned the school. You can't find anything here! That's what you call indictable rights for people with disabilities, if there's nothing in the law about it? [[Abg. It's all that's meant! You can't list it all individually!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's no turn of evidence. There are no essential points that disabled people need to be able to complain. We disabled people must, if we want to complain, in order to be able to make a collective complaint, which is more or less justified by the Federal Disability Advisory Council, that we are allowed to bring a complaint. What other law is there in Austria, which provides that in the case of a collective complaint, a preliminary institution decides whether a complaint may be brought or not? Nowhere! That's just what we've done to prevent any complaints at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is just an attempt not to agree!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The State of Discrimination will continue to be on the agenda in Austria in the future: in the field of barriers, in the field of public transport and in all areas of life. But I guarantee you one, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: You will decide this law today and we will decide, but only on the condition that you agree to our amendments, because that is the substance that this law needs; these are the teeth that this law must have, as always said. Without this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, the law does not have these teeth, and then we would not agree because we are not among those who make up for the disabled people, telling them what they do not have everything for rights in the future, if then under the rule nothing looks out. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, go, go!]] We don't. We have never done that, we will not do that either, but we will always give our disabled people pure wine, and we must do it today. We will not represent this law, as it is now present, but one, ladies and gentlemen, we will do: [[Abg. Großruck: This is a vote against the disabled if you do not agree!]] We'll fight for this law you're presenting to us today to get teeth, that's huge. That's where you can rely on us. We will also go and roll this path. We would have expected, ladies and gentlemen, that today we will adopt a law which we will not be able to do at the latest from 1 January. We had to fight January 2006, but we had expected that today we would pass a law that we should have from 1 January 2006 onwards. January 2006 gives rights, assertable rights, a backbone, so that we are finally equalized in this society. But that doesn't bring this law. Harm it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to say a few words about the sign language. My colleague Dieter Brosz will do this even more. Again, it is the Greens – that cannot be denied – that is all documented – who have fought since the beginning for the Austrian sign language to be recognized as a language. We have a first step – I say consciously: a first step – to the constitutional provision, but this constitutional provision is also to be fulfilled with life. This constitutional provision is to be given in its own law the substance that allows deaf people to be able to assert their right to sign language as well. We need that in the future, but we still don't. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you too can dress warm! We will continue to fight for it. We will not allow disabled people to be told how well they have it if it is not at all right. We need rights, Mrs Partik-Pablé, we need indictable rights, and I will never give up this claim, even if you think that I am bitter a hundred times. I'm not bitter, I'm a human rights fighter, I'm fighting for our rights, and I'm going to keep it that way in the future. If you look at it as an embitter, that's your thing. I'll stay with you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e10767	The amendment tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr in his key points is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. According to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed to Members and shall be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11209	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11230	Ladies and gentlemen! I am not inclined to exaggerate political debates, but today I would like to say that it is really a great day, because we have two drafts for decision-making, on the one hand, the law on equal treatment for disabled persons and on the other hand the anchoring of the sign language in the Constitution. After years or even decades of debates, discussions, discussions and discussions, the sign language was finally recognized as a language. The reason why this has not happened before is differences of opinion, a method dispute, a competition between speech and sign language. That is why, I think, it is particularly great that we have now enforced ourselves and recognize the sign language as an equivalent language in Austria. I'm really glad. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that the recognition of sign language among deaf people will lead to better access to information, better participation in the education system, improved integration, and a total increase in the opportunity of deaf people to participate in the lives of all. So I'm very happy and don't let the words of Mrs. Haidlmayr make me wrong. I think all the deaf can also rejoice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Haidlmayr, since you meant that I would accuse you of being bitter. – I am really sorry that you are not doing politics with me in the field of disability, but you are always seeing an enemy in me. Who doesn't know yet: I have a disabled daughter sitting in the wheelchair. She is 27 years old, and that is why I know exactly how difficult it is for disabled people. I said in committee that I am often bitter if I stand with my daughter in front of an obstacle that I cannot take. Then I said, Mrs Haidlmayr, I know you are not bitter, because Mrs. Haidlmayr never admits that a disabled person can also be disappointed if he does not find the conditions he would like to find. That wasn't at all an accusation to you. I mean, make your life how you want to shape it. I admire you mastering your life, Mrs. Haidlmayr. I have just said to my person, I am often bitter and I wish that society would help a lot, much more. I believe that society is also obliged to help people with disabilities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am also pleased that we are today adopting the law on equal treatment for men and women. And again, Mrs Haidlmayr: I do not want to argue about who has now done more to ensure that this law on disability has finally come into force. It's always a competition issue with you. I'm glad we put something through. I also cannot understand your criticisms and the criticisms of Mrs Lapp and I am sorry that you are doing everything we do here. By force, you are looking for points of criticism. [[Abg. Oils: Not by force!]] For example, both Mrs Lapp and Mrs Haidlmayr have criticized the disabled lawyer, who is now being set up. Why shouldn't he be a strong lawyer, Mrs. Lapp? Why do you say this in advance? He's not even installed yet, but it's going to be, and you're already saying he won't be a strong lawyer because he's not constitutionally guided. The Federal Minister has assured us that there will be no instructions to this lawyer. And why should he accept instructions? He will fight for the interests of the disabled, so he is the disabled man or the disabled lawyer. Faith You're a little bit too, and don't always take everything bad, don't always say that's nothing! [[Abg. Mandak: Then you can anchor it in the law!]] Let us be glad about these steps that have been taken here. Or the association action with the previous Federal Disability Advisory Council. The Federal Disability Advisory Council should only be a conciliation body. [[Abg. Haidlmayr makes a disposable hand movement.]] Mrs Haidlmayr, you do it the same way you see what you are talking about other people's arguments. In other areas, there are also these pre-arranged arbitration courts or interlocutory bodies such as in the rental law – with very, very good success. We've got that in the neighborhood law. There it is now tested, also with very good success. This is a filter to save unnecessary processes, which can often bring disadvantages to the disabled or to the associations. So let's not do everything down, but let's be quite satisfied with what we have! I mean, you don't need to show euphoria, I don't do that either, but admit that this is a success, a first step. We're on the right track, as you say. I would also like to say the following: You see, now, in this constellation, a lot is being done for disabled people. In the field of justice, we have created the Home Residence Act, the Home Treaty Act, to ensure that relevant standards are observed in the homes, which will benefit the disabled again. This has not even been remembered in the last 20, 30 years. The school laws have been criticised. Much has also gone on in order to ensure a better life for disabled people. You know, I'm not fully satisfied with the removal of the barriers, I'm telling you, too, because there are too many barriers. If I'm going with my daughter somewhere with the wheelchair, I always have to think: If I come in there, will you be sitting half good, able to overcome the stairs? Or in a bathroom: Am I coming out of the water again with my daughter? And so on and so on. I do not see – I have to say that – that the economy has been granted transitional periods for so long, because the economy has not only known since today that there are disabled people, but the economy has known this for decades or forever. [[Detonative appeal to the greens and accompaniment of the Abg. May. Main]] When someone opens a business, he knows that there are disabled people who may frequent his business. Or public institutions, the Federation, the countries and the communities – everyone knows there are disabled people who want to enter. That is why I would also like us to take action, perhaps in a second step, in order to improve this accessibility. Mrs Lapp – unfortunately she is not here now, thanks – has said in the committee and today again, one needs initiative and one also needs brain narrowness. [[Abg. May. Lapp: ( sitting in the first row) Oh yes! Here!]] Mrs Lapp, you are perfectly right. That is why I would really ask you to support you in Vienna. The Urania has been rebuilt, has been completely rebuilt. I was there with my daughter a week ago with the wheelchair. We didn't find the wheelchair entrance. In hot heat, we walked around the whole building, because nowhere is there where a disabled person can enter. No porter was there, no one was there. Then we came to the middle hall. Everything is wonderfully redesigned. There is no way, however, that a disabled person can take a seat in a number of places. He can only stand in the back, that's in the end, I don't know, the 20. Series. There is no way you can get down the stairs in the hall with a wheelchair. The disabled person's bell is there, but it's so locked that no one can go in. This is the Urania, that is the city of Vienna. Please, I beg you, look at those who use brain narrow and set up initiatives there! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The same applies to the cinemas. I have said this several times, because I am really outraged about it. A disabled person would also like to visit the leisure facilities. The cinema palaces are great. You come, you can use the elevator, the cinema room is barrier-free, but you can either only sit in the first row – you know how to stare up there at a wide-wall cinema – or in the last row, where, if you are disabled multiple times, you can also see nothing from the whole movie. So something has to be done! There is something to be done in the construction order or in the entertainment institution laws. Please, I beg you, see that brain narrow is used there and initiatives are put in place, because these are all laws that concern the country of Vienna! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mandak: But the other federal states alike!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mandak, you know what, I would invite you to spend two days with me and my child in the wheelchair in Vienna. [[Abg. Mandak: Then spend two days in Vorarlberg or in Tirol! It's the same problem everywhere!]] Then you will shake up your Green Group, then you will say what is necessary, and will not yell into my speech here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mandak: In every federal country there is that!]] Mrs Haidlmayr – I am already coming to the conclusion, because I don't have so much speaking time at all – has said: We give pure wine. Please give, please. You are pure wine, but do not water it with falsehoods, but stick to the truth, stick to the correctness! Tell me what's good, and don't defuse everything.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11393	Mrs Haubner has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11415	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The undivided claim to equal opportunities and equal opportunities is the foundation of our social policy. The fact that there has been so far, especially for people with disabilities, exclusions and discrimination, we have clearly also heard the examples of Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: They will continue to be preserved in the future!]] That is why it is our duty, in the future, to give such discrimination and difficulties to people with disabilities a very clear rejection. The law that is now in place is another and important step towards a policy for people with disabilities. It is a part of a package of measures that began in 2000 to implement the billions of disabled people who were primarily concerned with integrating people with disabilities into the labour market to the best possible extent and, above all, with the necessary support and support. The fact that this has proved to be very good so far shows the great number of additional jobs that God could have been created. This law on equal treatment for disabled persons is, as has been said, part of a package of measures which, in addition to the millions of disabled people, also provides for the revision of the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. However, I should also like to point out the area of insurance, social security, which provides for the best possible insurance for parents who have disabled children and we have extended the period from 30 years to 40 years in the context of pension harmonisation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the end point for me today, not the end point, but an important part, an important stopover that we are putting in. It started in 2003. Mrs Haidlmayr has already said that 1997 has led to the adoption of the Constitution, but in 2003 when the joint government programme was drawn up, we have clearly given the signals and the lines. In particular, I would like to thank my predecessor, Herbert Haupt, who, at the time, also laid great emphasis on the fact that this law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities is not only in writing, but also in implementation. At that time, he also did most of the work in negotiations, in discussions, in preparatory work, in discussions. So I think it's also a nice day for Federal Minister A.D. Herbert Haupt today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to thank all the departments involved, because we want to have a law that lives in implementation and that is also applicable. That is why everyone had to get involved, and this has happened over the past few weeks and months. Above all, my State Secretary Sigisbert Dolinschek has been very strong in this area and has conducted these talks excellently. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Bravo, Sigi!]] However, I would also like to thank all the disabled organisations and stakeholders whose wishes and demands have been made very specifically. Many we could fulfill in this law, of course not 100 percent. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Not at all! Eight key areas have not been fulfilled!]] Without including anyone now, I would like to say a warm thank you for the good discussion and also for the good advice, which could ultimately bring about this law. That this is a good and right step is evidenced by the fact that we go far beyond the general law on equal treatment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] We not only ensure equal treatment and equality in the field of professional activity, but it is also included in the private sector for the first time in addition to the public sector. – That is, I believe, the essential, because as long as the private area has been ruled out, there is no essential area of life and therefore the law is not complete. That's what we did here. If one compares the situation with that of our neighbours in Germany, which we are very happy to use for comparisons, and in this context this is actually the case, then one will find that in Germany the equality law has been in force since 2002 but that it refers exclusively to public and not private. [[Abg. Oils: You always do it!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not a good law either! No one said that!]] It is also important that in our law we not only want to shift discrimination against those concerned, but also to transfer discrimination protection to relatives. [[New call of the abg. Haidlmayr.]] That is also something very, very important and what has not yet been done in any law at European level. Among the most sensitive issues we have discussed in the Committee are the different transitional arrangements on accessibility. It is simply not right when it is sometimes claimed that nothing will be done by 2015. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I would like to make it quite clear here once again: With the entry into force of this law, everything that is being re-established, and above all what is being re-established, applies with immediate effect to the creation of accessibility. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] In addition, public service and public transport have committed themselves to this – and I attach great importance to it, because there has been very good negotiations with the Ministry of Infrastructure – that a stage plan must be presented by the end of 2006, in which it is precisely listed, how quickly and consistently one can eliminate and eliminate barriers here. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Should, but don't!]] In addition, there are also feasibility schemes and feasibility tests that, if small but sometimes very important solutions are provided for better access or are to be made, they can be initiated independently of the time accordingly. That's why I'm emphasizing: Especially in the discussions over the last few weeks and months on accessibility, a number of additional positive measures have been involved, and here all those who are good wills have been very intensively involved. As regards the action for association as a second, sensitive area, which is constantly being criticized here, it is, I believe, important to say what we can do to ensure that people with disabilities, when injustice occurs, get to their right as quickly as possible. – For me, a complaint is always the last resort. I mean, in advance, all the funds must be used to avoid years of complaint, so that someone will eventually come to his right. I believe that what creates discrimination must be eliminated as soon as possible. Therefore, the mediation and mediation are a very important instrument. Mrs Partik-Pablé has shown this in some examples, and we have experienced, in the area of family separation or divorce, that this is a very, very important and good new instrument. I would add that it is natural for the federal government to take over the costs for mediation and for this conciliation body. Thirdly, I come to speak to the disabled lawyer because he is also mentioned again and again. – I say again: The disabled person is not entitled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Mrs. Haidlmayr, in Section II b § 13 c para. 1 says: ‘The disabled person shall be independent, independent and shall not be bound by any instructions in the performance of his duties.’ And if this is decided today, it must also apply, regardless of who is the Minister of Social Affairs. We have clearly defined this. In addition, it is necessary – and we have also stated this – that the disabled person's lawyer is in the Board of Disabled Persons with a seat and voice, that this body is to be registered for the disabled lawyer and that there is an objective procedure. – If it is said again and again that he is on the gangband of the Minister of Social Affairs or the Minister of Social Affairs, this really lacks any basis, because we have had very good experience with lawyers whether with patient lawyers, nurses or disabled lawyers who are still coming to this point. And I would like the experience from other areas to be brought in accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First, I have said that we have made a good step and a great deal of progress with the law on equal treatment, but we have not yet reached a conclusion. The fact that we take the latter seriously also shows that we have planned a next step for the coming autumn. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] In concrete terms, this means that the Ministry of Social Affairs should be given the task of negotiating with the countries, because, as you know, we have nine different construction regulations and the federal government cannot intervene in these construction regulations, which are partly very disabled-friendly, but in some cases there is still a lot of need for recovery. Therefore, it will be my task and our task to establish an Article 15a agreement with the federal states on this subject by 2007 at the latest to define the same opportunities and the same rights for people with disabilities across Austria. On the other hand, there is no final point when, within the framework of the matter laws of the individual departments, we will collect and propose the cases of disadvantages to disabled people, how we can eliminate these disadvantages or disadvantages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] This too is a very important and necessary step. Of course, I am very pleased that, for the first time in connection with the sign language, very clear criteria and very clear rules have been created, and this is now considered to be an independent and full language, which is to be decided today, and I think it was very much time to do so. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am particularly concerned that we are well-accompanied by this law in its application in all important areas. In the sense of its practicality, we will evaluate this law at the latest after two years and, if something is to be changed and optimised, we will not only keep the results, but will work to take further steps. I regret that the opposition cannot take this important and good step today, because it is an important way and an important contribution to equal treatment and equality of all people in Austria and to their equal participation in all areas of life. It would be nice if everyone had gone along! Nevertheless, it is a beautiful day for us and for me as a Social Minister today! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11593	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11614	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It may be a nice day for you, Mrs Minister, and for Mr Head today, but it is not a nice day for the disabled in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! Being right and getting right is not always the same. The obstacles to truly asserting rights are often too big to be overcome. This law, too, is in danger of granting legitimate rights, but of allowing those concerned to be hanged in the network of bureaucracy, if they are actually referring to these rights. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Say: Who wrote this speech to you?]] Mrs. Colleague! The people to whose protection the law is intended are simply not given the craftsmanship to enforce these rights. It leaves wherever it goes! The biggest problem of enforcement is the conduct of evidence. This law only gives reliefs, and it also makes it relatively easy for the defendant party to refer in turn to other motives which were crucial for different treatment. Where people with disabilities are being met, the Committee could not, at least, be explained by the mandatory defenders of this law, and unfortunately, the woman minister has also remained guilty of the answer today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Even if it succeeds in bearing this evidence despite all the difficulties, the legal consequences are rather modest. Only a property damage is recognised and compensation granted for personal impairment. However, there is no right to the elimination and omission of discrimination. – The latter clearly shows that you are not really concerned with facilitating the lives of disabled people. These people are not about money, but they are about being able to participate in life freely and not being excluded because of a disability. He is disabled who will be disabled, and this law hinders those affected by the enforcement of their rights. The shortcomings have already been very clearly explained by Mr Haidlmayr and by Mr Lapp, and with these shortcomings, the law on equal treatment for disabled persons is seamlessly incorporated into the number of those laws, with which EU directives are implemented not only too late but also faultily. And this is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11657	The next speaker was Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11678	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the comments of my previous speaker, who gave me a lot of opportunity to say something about this, I would like to express my respect to my colleague, our chief negotiator, Franz-Joseph Huainigg, for the way in which he has negotiated this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I have been able to support him in recent times, and I am really saying “must” because I have seen what energy, what commitment and what tirelessness he has put into the enforcement of these interests of the disabled. This requires deep respect for me, and I would like to express this to you here, dear Franz-Joseph! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, I would also like to thank the other parties. I also found that, for example, the economy as one of the partners in the negotiations was ready for very constructive talks. I also felt an incredible commitment in the Social Ministry. This law is a very important step for the disabled. The sensitivity, the courage and also the desire to be able to submit an appropriate legislative proposal to the disabled has given wings to colleagues who have been working on it. Today's package – and it's a package for the disabled – which includes disability equality and the anchoring of sign language in the Constitution, is a very important, essential impulse and a way – as Franz-Joseph Huainigg put it here – towards self-determination and self-determination of the disabled. It was a real initiative and a real bill. Let me now say a few words about the accusations made by my predecessor here that we are not concerned with facilitating the lives of the disabled. The opposite is the case, Mrs Colleague! With your claims that the law on equal treatment for disabled persons does not give you the opportunity to enforce rights, you are not right. On the contrary! However, the anchoring of the right to be abandoned by you and also by Mrs Haidlmayr is not as easily possible as we have tried to explain to you several times. In this context, there are constitutional obstacles to overcome, but their elimination will take longer, as it is the responsibility of the federal states to change their construction regulations accordingly. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: It's about the federal buildings!]] With regard to construction regulations, we have asked the Federal Minister to conduct negotiations with the countries in order to allow access to the individual buildings and parts of the building in the foreseeable future, and I believe that this is the only right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have also tried to make clear that this is not yet the end point for us. In the foreseeable future, we will carry out an evaluation of what we have pointed out and what we have also enshrined in the law. Only then can we really judge whether this is an important and correct step of the end point – which I do not accept – or in which direction it will continue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Mrs. Haidlmayr! I would like you to support us in this matter and not always accuse us that we do not want to do anything at all, as you did in the Committee. They overwhelm that we always feel that the seriousness of thinking in appropriate steps is, unfortunately, not given by you. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should consider what you are saying! It's an unheard of!]] Our desire to work with you, however, is unbroken, and I am delighted and hope that we can do something together in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11766	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11787	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, I would like to refer briefly to the speech by Mrs Partik-Pablé: We can certainly share their description of the problems in Vienna. I would like to make two comments. First point: Access problems do not only exist in Vienna. This should also be thought of by all those who are swinging here right now in the election campaign: This is a problem we have all over Austria! Second point: Just what you described would have been to change with further legal possibilities and regulations. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I wonder: How?- Oh, my God!]] Yeah, who? – By taking exactly the question of omission and elimination into the law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Now you can tell me three times that the Urania is being renovated and that what is called bad there is true! Look at how federal schools are renovated! Do you think that in the renovation of federal schools it is taken into account that these are subsequently disabled? – No, they are still not! Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is now talking about country issues. What about the federal schools? Are the country issues or federal affairs? That is exactly where you can intervene and take appropriate measures that you have not put in place! We have also discussed this several times in committee with Federal Minister Gehrer. I also take interest in the APA an interview with Helene Jarmer, who has clearly said that there are always resistances by the Ministry in this regard, both in terms of sign language and in terms of the will to really push for equality. That is the point I would like to make. Minister Gehrer asked why schools are not generally designed in such a way that they are disabled, literally: That's what we do when an event is given. – I ask you: How is that supposed to work in practice? How should this work in practice if someone in the fourth grade primary school or high school decides to attend a higher school? How should a building be adapted within half a year to be accessible to the disabled? The answer then comes smoothly: There is a boarding school for the disabled in Vienna, in which you can go. – That should be equality? Is equality that people who sit in the wheelchair can choose to go to a boarding school if they want to attend a commercial academy, and if they don't want to go to a boarding school, have no opportunity? That's equality for you? That's federal law, and here you're still juicy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I come to the sign language: We will first make a motion for a resolution on the sign language, which, as you will remember, hardly distinguishes itself from what has been decided by you in the Committee with a single small difference, namely that we want a deadline. They noted: It is now necessary to review what must be done at the legal level, apart from the symbolic anchoring of the sign language. Unfortunately, they have not set a deadline. We know the motions for resolutions! It will not take too long for this legislative period to be over, so a deadline is needed to take appropriate measures. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a step that would also bring life to this formal, symbolically important anchorage in the Constitution. I would like to ask you specifically – I quote Mrs Helene Jarmer from the APA – which points are now being changed. With this anchorage, deaf people now have the right to be taught in Austrian schools in sign language – yes or no? – No, they don’t have the right! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: No!]] Do you have the right to issue a driver's license in the sign language: yes or no? [[Abg. Haidlmayr: No!]] – You still have no right. If you speak here of equality, equality and deny all substantial rights and if these questions are to be answered by no, then you will – and I am now especially addressing Dr. Huainigg, whom I have always appreciated so far, because he has given very differentiated speeches; but now he also says that the opposition panic – must admit that the substance of the law is missing and urgent need for action.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11886	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Brosz, drawn up by Mrs Haidlmayr, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e11910	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the officials of my home, the Social Ministry, for the law that is coming to be adopted today. In a period of more than three years, they have brought this law's decision to maturity with an extensive review procedure. Of course, Mr Brosz and Mrs. Haidlmayr, it is true that some of the points that are not included in the law today would be questionable and desirable. Also to you, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of Social Democracy, it is written in the main book that last year Mr Niessl and Mr Häupl presided over the federal states and were not to be reached with the federal states, but we were referred to the long way of an Article 15a agreement. It is also an insignificant fact that the municipality of Vienna is still the largest housing owner in Austria, since 1970 – since 1970! – has disability-friendly housing regulations, but does not build such dwellings. [[Abg. Neudeck: Europe!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These details are the reason why much is not included in the law today, which would be essential for accessibility, for a self-determined life and for a better everyday environment, not only for disabled people, but also for elderly people and for women with children's weights. It is also not understandable to me that the board of directors of the Austrian Federal Railways have no interest in buying properly disabled wagons, although they have received more than €800 million from Parliament for the purchase of a new fleet. It is a pleasure for me to see that the country of Styria has bought diesel-Garnitures suitable for the regional trains that are now going from Leibnitz to Graz and from Frohnleiten to Graz. This means that the periphery is connected to the beautifully converted, disabled main station in Graz. It is not nice, however, that in the Boards of the Austrian Federal Railways there is still the mentality of the great coalition, namely, nothing to do. Where, then, would we be going if we were to make the money useful for the levels of population that we need?- Oh, my God! I do not believe that the Austrian Federal Railways and Mr Haberzettl will be able to afford for a long time, two million Austrians who, as disabled people or their relatives, need to be left as future customers of the Austrian Railways – I believe in the truest sense of the word “to leave left”. That is why some of what comes from the opposition is beautiful for the debate, but in practice I have experienced where it actually is going and why some of what you are presenting here as parliamentarians is seen differently by other representatives of your family and therefore prevented. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is Haberzettl Board of Directors?]] I therefore consider it a first important step with Michael Svoboda and other representatives of the disabled organisations who have had the courage to describe today's law on decision-making as the first important step on which one can build and with which a positive future can be achieved gradually and in the long term for disabled people in Austria. [[Abg. Binder: Talk to Huber! It will make all railway stations accessible to disabled persons!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's pathetic! That's unscrupulous!]] Mr Jarolim! The caller will not benefit you, the truth remains the truth, so it is! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Binder: You said the untruth!]] You will not play the defence officer in a court here, but you may have to tell the Austrian public why Karl Blecha has not yet made use of his right of appeal in the Federal Senate, to challenge the interests of the seniors with associations in court. Perhaps you will be able to say that in the Vienna election campaign, today you will certainly not be able to explain these things. And you will not be able to explain today why a right of action that Blecha has never started for the elderly, on the other hand, then the condition that is necessary for the disabled to be able to accept this law. Check your arguments in the direction of reason, then you will no longer intervene, but quietly and disquietly try to improve this law in Vienna or where you are responsible, Mr Jarolim! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: There they are too!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12038	Mr Dr Huainigg spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12176	I would like to correct Mr Brosz, whom I appreciate as well. The sign language occurs in the Austrian school system – although not enough, I give you the right, but it appears. Furthermore: Federal schools are of course involved in the stage plan. It is a federal building and is therefore included in the stage plan. Thirdly, I have to correct: The driver's license will soon be available in sign language. One is already working on a computer program in the ministry, so that will be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12209	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12241	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! [[Further calls to the SPÖ and calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Interpreting in signs is very strenuous and requires high concentration. Thank you very much to the colleagues who are doing this for us today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would consider it to be an improvement in this constitutional provision if in the future we could interpret all the live transfers of the ORF in sign, because then many deaf people in Austria would have some of them. Today it may be a contribution to Parliament’s “Hohes Haus” magazine or to day-to-day policy, but this would ensure that many could participate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] After all, there are 10,000 citizens, ladies and gentlemen, of almost half a million people with hearing impairments who use the sign language as their first language. And this anchoring as an independent language in the Constitution presupposes some requests, and I think it was ultimately through the pressure of opposition, the pressure of red and green, that this was achieved today, although I also know that the motion for a resolution – we will also agree to the Green Resolution on the deadline – will not yet ensure that, for example, bilingual education in the school for deaf children will become reality. It is therefore important that we also call on the appropriate ministers to take action with a time-limit, particularly in the field of education and in other areas, to ensure that this first language combined with the foreign language German, as is the case for deaf people, becomes reality and self-evident. At the same time, however, hearing education for deaf people is also intended to become a matter of course for people with residual hearing and for deaf people. This is not to be saved, and to this end almost everyone – not the Greens – has underlined the Committee statement: We assume that the recognition of sign language will not lead to a bad situation for people who are hard-to-heard, in particular those with cochlea implants, and that listening to voice support and technical hearing aids must also be guaranteed. I see this as the first important step of my group today, but we still need to define the liabilities together.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12304	Mr Dolinschek, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12325	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! People with disabilities are finally granted recognition and equality through the law on equal treatment. This will make it possible for them to have a life of their own. Ladies and gentlemen! If I now look at the criticism points that come from the opposition, I have to say that they are practically limited to the injunction, to the conflagration and, in part, to the disabled lawyer. And that actually tells me that we are very right with the design of the law on equal treatment for the disabled, because it is a cross-sectional matter. It concerns not only the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is responsible for this law, but all areas of life in Austria. It is a cross-sectional matter that affects other ministries as well. A compromise has been reached which was not quite easy, and I thank all those who have cooperated in this legislation. The disabled organisations, especially the large, such as the Austrian Civil-Infirmary Association and the ÖAR, were involved in each phase of this legislative process, as were the social partners. I have had the honour of negotiating in recent months with the officials of the Ministry, with the Members of Parliament and also with the representatives of the other ministries involved. Thank you very much for this bill of law and for the content of this law on equal treatment for the disabled! Ladies and gentlemen! This law on equal treatment for men and women goes far beyond the general equality law, which in Austria is, as it were, considered to be a standard, since the law on equal treatment for men refers not only to the profession but also to other countries, but also to all areas of life. There is the possibility of association action, mediation is provided, and there is protection against discrimination also for members. It's not supposed to be that way everywhere. This goes far beyond the EU directive, because it provides for equal treatment only when it comes to employment. Discrimination protection is only provided for in the field of work and work, but for all of us. Areas of life. Compared to other countries, the law on the equalisation of the disabled can be referred to as one of the most extensive legislation on the setting up of disabled persons, which is certainly in the forefront of the international community, in particular in comparison to the German one. Mrs Lap, you will certainly know what it is like in the Federal Republic of Germany, there is the law on equal treatment for the disabled since 1. ==References== The law there knows no legal consequences, no feasibility test. It applies only to the public administration and to the disabled themselves, so there is no family protection like ours. There is also no family protection in Switzerland, France, Hungary and Belgium; very well with us. No legal consequences are foreseen in France. And that law, which was created in the United States in 1992, has an above-average transitional period of 10 years, i.e. much shorter, in terms of transport measures. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the question of the possibility of complaint, one of the points here by Mrs Magistrate. Grossmann has been criticized – I must say one thing: It was excluded because there are constitutional and civil reservations. I just mention one example: In the event of a conviction, a tenant or a tenant of a business venue is not possible to ensure accessibility for the owner's will. And this is the problem, and that is why we have distanced ourselves from it, Mrs Haidlmayr! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] The Handicapped Equality Act also brings many benefits to the Austrian families through accessibility. I'm just thinking, for example, that a mother with a stroller needs much more space than a disabled person with a wheelchair. Therefore, I must say that also brings something into this area, and it is relatively much to achieve by means of small adaptations, especially for those with vision and hearing impairments. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In general, it has certainly become a good law. You can of course work on improvements over and over again, but, as I said, it was a compromise. Let me now say a few words on the recognition of the Austrian sign language. After many years of verbal discussions and intense discussions, it is now finally so far that the Austrian sign language is recognized as an independent and full language and incorporated into the Constitution. This is an essential step, ladies and gentlemen, and this has taken account of the desire of many deaf people. It should also be taken into account in all new legislative initiatives. The sign language contributes to the equality of deaf people and others and is to be seen as a complement to the Law on the Equality of Disabled Persons. The current disability equalisation package, together with the constitutional anchoring of the sign language, represents an important step in the field of disability policy in Austria, and it can indeed be claimed that the regulations contained therein will, of course, also be applicable to all Austrians in the truest sense of the word. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we can generally be very satisfied with the law on equal treatment for the disabled, with the whole package and with the anchoring of the sign language in the Austrian Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12402	Mr Dr Jarolim spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12449	I am a little unsavory, but the statement by Mr Haupt calls for an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Hoof has explained to all serious earlier that the works councillor of the Bundesbahnen Haberzettl would be responsible for the fact that there would be no facilities suitable for the disabled in the Federal Railways and that the disabled would be overtaken on the left. [[Abg. Neudeck: Because otherwise you don't get to the speaker list!]] I'm actually correcting: The Executive Board is solely responsible for decisions in management matters – that is, of course, also the facilities for the disabled – and the Executive Board alone has this responsibility and not a works council member. [[Abg. Neudeck: We will do it at Haberzettl!]] I am shocked, Mr President. I honestly do not know how to exercise a ministerial office with this knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12511	The next speaker was Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12548	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! With today's decision to recognize sign language as an independent language and its anchoring in the Constitution, we not only fulfil a desire of the Austrian deaf associations, but also close a human rights gap in our legal system. It is about – colleague Heinisch-Hosek has said it – 10,000 people who live in the middle of us, but are no longer able to talk about speaking or can not or can only communicate themselves in a poor voice. For them, the recognition of the sign language does not directly lead to an improvement in the life situation, but it now exists for all who have to do with the promotion, training, care and support of deaf people – in recognition of the constitutional anchoring of the sign language – the right that it should no longer be classified as a second-class language. This recognition has become possible through several factors: First of all, the Austrian sign language has been taught and taught by the efforts of the Karl-Franzens University of Graz by means of a systematisation. Secondly, the tension has been taken out of the discussion by removing the exponents of the deaf associations from their original demand to introduce the sign language as a primary language system for all those with hearing disabilities – a requirement that at that time, in all the associations of heavy hearings, to total rejection Shot. I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Jarmer, who took this position. In order for deaf and deaf people to be no longer at risk of their development in the future, a wealth of conditions must be fulfilled. First of all, early recognition of hearing damage. Mandatory screening studies in newborns are just as important as optimal technical care and best early promotion. In early promotion, it is important to decide which language system can best help the child, and I think that you should not be oriented according to dogmas, but according to the individual situation. I personally and also my project in St. Pölten-Stattersdorf expressly acknowledges the principle of bilinguality, and we have thus also made the best experiences. I am pleased about today's law decision; I see in him a chance and a task at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12600	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12621	Ladies and gentlemen! Today's law on the recognition of sign language has led to a very long discussion. This recognition is certainly in the sense of about ten thousand people who use the sign language as their first language. Austria, however, is not a pioneer in this field. There are already seven European countries that have recognised sign language as a minority language. We must certainly not be content with the achievement, for it is a symbolic recognition, and it is contained in Article 8(3) that the more detailed the laws determine, and therefore I think that setting a deadline is something very positive for the people concerned, that the laws must be examined during a certain period of time, so that the sign language in all areas of life is given sufficient meaning. When we look at the Discrimination Report, we can see that these people are disadvantaged in very, very many areas. It has often been the example of driving school. We can also read in this report that a deaf woman has been decided by the driving school, no sign language interpreter has been allowed to attend and no computer programs, which include sign language recordings. This woman finally passed the test because she did not understand enough what was said. Therefore, I think that these difficulties, which arise in addition to the costs, need to be solved urgently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Indeed, the president of the Austrian deaf party believes that the deaf live as disabled in a special situation as a language minority, because they are facing barriers, and therefore a first step has been taken with the recognition of sign language. However, the barriers and obstacles to hearing impaired and deaf people for equal participation in our society still need to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12669	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12691	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! A black day for the SPÖ: For 30 years, the SPÖ government has not done much for the disabled in Austria or has partially forgotten it. I understand that there are now loud calls from you, because it is unthinkable for you that a government, namely the black-blue, five years of positive cooperation and can now make a disability equalisation law and so many improvements for the disabled. I would like to say to Mrs Haidlmayr: She doesn't seem to want to realize that you bring something like that together. Either it has not read this law or it deliberately represents improvements as deterioration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Mrs. Haidlmayr, you must agree with your own conscience that in the population you represent improvements to the barrier or to the disabled lawyer and to many others more than deterioration and here in plenary, where many listeners are, say that these improvements are not worth the paper on which they are written. I have to tell you: I find this unheard of – also to the affected group! In fact, the SPÖ should be grateful to the main, the cane, Dolinschek and to our coalition partner for what they have done for the disabled in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Under the Minister of Social Affairs, the first half of the disabled has been introduced in Austria. With these billions of disabled people, many disabled people with re-training measures, improvements, financial support have been given the opportunity to get a job. Businesses have received financial support, a financial grant to remodel the job in such a way that disabled people can also be recruited. So, I really have to say, What this government has done for disabled people in Austria is remarkable. In the 30 years SPÖ government has not even been made 2% of that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as accessibility is concerned, Mrs Haidlmayr, I would like to tell you that you are already right to do more, just: What was not done in the 30 years before is now impossible to do overnight. If I am not in charge of the countries, I can only do something there with talks and agreements and with transitional arrangements. They also know that I can't build a house overnight, and I can't renovate it overnight either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] The next thing I am particularly pleased about is what has been done in the field of discrimination. You didn't mention that with a word. You're just talking about the improvements not worth the paper they're on, but you're not talking about the content and you're frustrated what I don't understand. As a representative of the disabled, you should actually be happy and say here: Mrs Sozialminister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your Thank you for all that you've done for our group! Ladies and gentlemen! We will ensure that there are further improvements for the disabled. We make the coalition disabled – you, SPÖ And greens, make obstacle policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12769	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Reported on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12793	I really have to correct Mr Walch's statement, which said that in 30 years of social-democratic governments for disabled people, nothing has gone on. – That’s not true! The right thing is: In 1997, Article 7 of the Federal Constitutional Act decided that no one should be discriminated against because of his disability.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12827	Mr Morak, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12848	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My dear colleague here at the Intergovernmental Bank! Mr Walch has now brought some elan into this debate and made it sound like the bitterness that existed in the creation of this law. It was a controversial debate which, as I believe, was characterized by the seriousness with which we should address this issue. It is a major issue, it is complex facts that are governed by this law. I think all this has been going on today. However, I would have expected a greater presence here in this auditorium if such a matter were to be negotiated. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: (in the direction of ÖVP and the Freeman) There you can see how important the coalition parties are!]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] I believe that the improvements that have been made with this Federal Disability Equality Act are impressive in terms of how they have improved the status quo. The Federal Minister and the Secretary of State have given a detailed opinion on this. The different rules governing the public service are based on the classification and specification of the public service, where jurisdiction is not with the court, but with the supervisory authority. I think that explains itself. Another improvement – which has already been adequately discussed today – is the constitutional recognition of the sign language. This is recognised in Article 8 of the Constitution after the vote here in the House as an independent language, where the minority languages or the national language are regulated. That too is a significant appreciation of this subject. In addition to the constitutional recognition, however, it will still need rules of the simple legislator. Of course, there are already rules on this matter. In this context I refer to § 185 ZPO, §§ 164 and 198 Criminal Procedure and § 76 AVG. Whether that is sufficient will only prove in practice. I assume that in the event of an additional need, the House will go into it. In the Committee, the discussion on the ORF's programme offer for people with hearing disabilities was also very bitter. This was so far that a fee payment with regard to public broadcasting was called into question. I would like to point out: Under this Federal Government, the changes in the Radio Law took into account for the first time this situation of those with hearing disabilities. Of course, the ORF has also recently developed and expanded this offer on the basis of the new ORF law. The ORF's offer for hearing impaired included last year, i.e. 2004, 3 433 hours of TV program with teletext subtitles. That's 278 hours a month. I admit that you can still improve this, that's not a question. But again: We are there on a good path on the basis of the new ORF law. But one thing should be made clear – and I have already mentioned it in the Committee: All parties, as formulated in the ORF Act, are represented in the Foundation Council. However, I am still waiting for the Foundation Councils from SPÖ and those from the Greens to submit applications to the Foundation Council in this sense, as did Members Haidlmayr or you, Madam Members. I am not familiar with this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] This Federal Government has made improvements for hearing impaired persons within the framework of the ORF Act. That this must continue is clear, but no one prevents you from preventing your board of foundations – as you know, they are independent – from taking care of it. I beg you, go to work, just in this area, and work where you can work, at the Foundation Councils in the ORF. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12915	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12936	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! A special greeting to all people with disabilities in the gallery and in Austria! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: They're not in the gallery!]] If Austria sets out its own path in the field of equal treatment and anti-discrimination, which goes beyond the EU directives with this law on equal treatment for disabled persons, this is a good way of doing so. It is important to highlight the possibility of the conciliation procedure in the Federal Social Office with the offer of mediation in order to achieve good solutions. This is not just about who is right – as a mediator, I have to say that – but about the fact that there are viable solutions. At the same time, this process will discuss the motives and needs of those concerned, creating mutual understanding, making solutions feasible and raising social awareness of the whole problem. Mrs Haidlmayr, I believe that it is not so important to those who have done something in this law that is important for people with disabilities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I know, Mrs Colleague, that you are passionate about the interests of people with disabilities, and that is important. However, you need to do something, majority. I know what I'm talking about. As a social worker, I have in many cases repeatedly brought to the attention of the clients to needs or abuses. It takes a lot of patience and many understanding conversations, with appreciation for the others in order to pass on something well. We have not only local barriers, which it is important to reduce, but also barriers in the head, in the heart and in the language. Therefore, it is important to meet the respective counterpart with fingertips, in order to no longer create but less resistance. This law serves this goal. It is therefore very, very important to me that there should be no populist action in the social field, especially in the field of disabled persons, or no improvement should be prevented by compromise. In Styria many things were possible in this area through the style of the co-existence of our wife's head of state Waltraud Klasnic, and this style of policy for people with disabilities is the style of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e12979	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13000	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this law helps to achieve improvements and, above all, to change the consciousness and attitude of people. We are thus taking a central step towards equality. Moreover, this law goes far beyond the EU directives and calls for equality of treatment for people with disabilities in all areas of life. I would like to point out briefly the concern of the association for the promotion of people with disabilities, Marianne Hengl, who is very committed in this area and who has recently been a member of the Economic Parliament. It is important that the interests of the disabled are also represented there, and it is also a sign that the economy is taking the path of equality. I would just like to quote a few words by Marianne Hengl from a supplement of the "Tyrol daily" where she says: “Being disabled is often only the result of a small moment, such as a disease or an accident. Seconds that shape life on lifetimes.”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13037	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13059	Mr President. High house! We're used to the opposition saying: Everything the government does is too little!, but one thing I don't understand: that one is against a law that only improves, only with the argument that it is too little. In particular, I would like to point out that the law on the equal treatment of disabled persons is really an exemplary way of regulating accessibility. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] The Federal Government will be obliged to present a stage plan for the federal buildings by the end of next year. So something is happening immediately, with the consultation of the Austrian Association for Rehabilitation, and the Federal Government has to carry out the implementation by stage. The same rule applies to operators of transport equipment or transport. The Federal Government is also called upon to lay down, in the promotion guidelines for the award of these grants, that accessibility should be provided accordingly. I know that several countries are already implementing this. For example, the allocation of funding for the establishment of a home is linked to the establishment of corresponding rooms for the disabled. It has been criticized by the opposition that this does not generally apply to all of Austria. Mr President, we do not want to remove the competences between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities, but it is a question, as Mrs Federal Minister has already said, of achieving with an Article 15a agreement that the countries and the municipalities will also be in line with the objective set out in this law. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] In my work in the Vienna Landtag I have also been very busy with the construction regulations. Many construction regulations already contain provisions in this respect, but I am sure that with an Article 15a agreement we can achieve the objective of this law to define accessibility for all areas throughout Austria. I only have one more appeal to the opposition: Please, agree! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[14:59]] [[15:00:00]] Short debate on the response to the question 2797/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13105	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 2 to 4 of the agenda. We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Health and Women with the order number 2797/AB. The above-mentioned answer was already distributed, so that a reading by the writing failed. We are immediately entering the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. A statement of views by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Magistrate. Mayer as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13143	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The answer to the question by Mrs. Rauch-Kallat on the veterinary report shows that in 2004 574 681 cattle were slaughtered. If one looks at the development and compares it with the years before, it is noted that the slaughters in Austria are generally reduced. It is also gratifying to say that more and more cattle have been found to be fit. However, the question does not arise now, but the question arises whether the bovine animals covered by BSE control have actually been controlled. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you have calves and calves and young cows... – So the name in the veterinary report, Mr. Colleague, please read it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Stop being stupid, no one believes!]] Or let the Federal Minister teach you what terms are used in the veterinary report. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Let us look at this in the report. [[Abg. Hornek, shit!]] Then say Mr President, I should like to ask you this question to the Federal Minister if there is a supposed sense of stupidity in this, Mr Colleague. I quote from the report.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13203	I would ask you not to constantly interrupt the speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13218	Let us assume that some 300 000 to 385 000 bovine animals should be examined for BSE! They have always explained to us, namely those responsible for agriculture, that BSE controls are carried out throughout Austria. – Well, ladies and gentlemen, I received a envelope some time ago. This envelope was delivered here in the house at Tor 4 for me, addressed to the SPÖ Consumer Protection Spokesperson of the National Councilman Johann Maier. It contained a telephone number and a letter from University Professor Dr. Wolfgang Schuller, Head of the Austrian Agency for Health and Nutrition Safety GmbH, Veterinary Medical Investigations Mödling. I can quote from this letter: “To the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations Section VII – Veterinary Administration Radetzkystraße 2 1031 Vienna” – the then competent Federal Ministry. ‘Betr.: Crosscheck in matters,Fullness of BSE-surveillance’. According to the instructions of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs (Federal Minister of the Interior) “a cross check for the month of September 2002 was carried out for the purpose of verifying the completeness of BSE investigations (number and age of animals). Only the federal states NÖ and OÖ were checked. The Innsbruck department was unable to carry out an evaluation for reasons of capacity and the Graz service because of its intrusion.... However, it should be assumed that the results from NÖ and OÖ are considered representative of the whole federal territory. It is also foreseen that a deviation of +/– two months (sold age 30 months) has not been considered serious.’ And now's coming, Hohes Haus: ‘In summary, it should be noted that up to 2% of animals subject to investigation in NÖ BSE have been massive ‘age crossings’ (up to 140 months of age!!!). So these animals have been reported as slaughtered but have not been studied for BSE. There were also discords in the numbers. These were just the main inconsistencies. Veterinary management is strongly recommended to contact the AMA and the veterinary services in the sense that these maladministrations are most sustainable. A case-by-case non-conformity of battle reports, or a case-by-case non-conformity of battle reports. Investigation reports can be tolerated, however, an ongoing ‘overview’ of 5-7-year-old animals does not correspond to an exact surveillance.’ Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Did you hold us at the shame or did you lie to us here in this house, the consumers, the farmers, the trade, the processors? I would like to stress once again: The head of the investigative body notes that in Austria between 6 000 and 8 000 risk cattle are not examined for BSE. – That is unbearable, Mrs. Federal Minister! This letter was written by the AGES and addressed to your ministry. I am pleased that the Minister for Consumer Protection is also present in this discussion. Mrs Bundesminister Haubner, I call on you to make your contribution to this so that these questions can be resolved. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are a lot of things that can't be right here! When I read the letter, I naturally ask myself: After the letter arrived in the ministry – there is also an entrance stamp – what has the ministry done to determine the actual number of those cattle in Austria that have never been examined? Were the causers actually held responsible for these lack of controls? Is it true that the problem lies with the AMA that employees of the AGES have not yet been able to consult the AMA database in order to verify whether the data provided actually corresponds to the AMA data? Mrs Bundesminister, I tell you: I think this is the central problem. I know, of course, that you are not responsible for this, and that is what Mr Pröll is responsible for. We are reserved a few things – legislative proposals, but also other parliamentary measures – because it is unbearable that the public, the Austrian consumers, the Austrian farmers, the trade and the farms are left unclear as to whether there has been proper controls, whether or not they have been fully controlled or not. Imagine: Infected cattle have come into the food cycle due to the lack of controls! [[Abg. Großruck: “Infected” means that! “Infected” is not said as a consumer speaker!]] – From our point of view, this is in no way portable. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Food safety is at the heart of all the political groups in this House. We have your words, we have in mind the words of the representatives of agriculture, in particular the words of Klubobmann Molterer in connection with the establishment of the AGES. We expect from you, Mrs President of the Federal Minister for Smoking Call, but also from you, Minister for Consumer Protection, Mr Haubner, absolute information on this issue. Consumers, farmers, farmers, farmers are entitled to learn how safe the BSE controls in Austria are.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13261	Mrs Frau Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13282	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Maier. I can reply relatively quietly to this request. There is no reason at all to proceed with scandalisations here. It is true, in fact, there is this letter of December 2002; that was still in the time before my ministry and before my responsibility. This letter has been sent to the ministry, so not only to you in an apparently anonymous envelope with a telephone number inside. You'll know who gave you this letter. The Ministry, the Federal Minister responsible for this, immediately responded and also put in place the appropriate measures. But let me just tell you about the time before that. In 2001, i.e. in the year before this letter, Austria should have examined only a sample of 10 000 bovine animals slaughtered for human consumption over 30 months in accordance with Regulation 999/2001, because there was no BSE case until then. However, it was decided to voluntarily examine all bovine animals in this category by means of rapid testing for BSE, and in December 2001 a bovine was found to be positive. ==References====External links== In January 2002, the public was also presented after all tests for this bovine animal had been carried out positively. Since then, Austria has been obliged to investigate all healthy slaughtered bovine animals from 30 months of age, as well as all emergency and ill slaughtered bovine animals and all final bovine animals from 24 months of age, using rapid testing for BSE. A total of about 205,000 to 210 000 bovine animals were therefore examined per year; a total of more than 940 000 were still in use today. According to Professor Schuller, then Managing Director of the AGES, that the BSE investigation obligation is not in any case fully complied with, first measures were immediately taken by the competent department and the Minister. Crosschecks were carried out by the Land authorities as well as by the investigative bodies in the TSE rally of the 20th century. On February 2003, exactly two months after this reference, that is to say very quickly, compulsory. It was established that cross-checks should be carried out using the cattle database, each country having a representative sample of at least 5 percent of animals subject to investigation spread evenly over the year. In addition, with the aid of the cattle database, research bodies have to review about 2% of the total entries per year. When conducting cross-checks, where there is evidence that investigations are not carried out, the necessary measures shall be taken without delay: The number of controls should be increased accordingly and the Federal Minister for Health and Women should be informed immediately by telephone and in writing. Furthermore, a basis is currently being established in cooperation with the AMA and the AGES to allow the entry of BSE research results into the AMA Rinder database. This should lead to even faster, more comprehensive, simpler and automated controls. The Austrian procedure for carrying out BSE cross-checks was also introduced on the occasion of an FVO inspection district – FVO is the Food and Veterinary Office – between 6 and 17. September 2004 discussed with the EU inspection team and assessed by it as sufficient. Finally, perhaps very briefly, the measures, the extent of the measures currently being taken to ensure food safety in Austrian beef and veal: Firstly, the prohibition on the feeding of animal meal, processed animal protein, in order to prevent the possibility of transmission of BSE safely. Secondly, Live animals prior to slaughter by trained meat examination veterinarians shall also ensure that BSE suspected animals may only be slaughtered separately and separately under the supervision of the veterinarian. In the case of such animals, further laboratory tests for BSE should be initiated immediately. The animal shall be kept under official barrier until a negative investigation result is found. Thirdly, the removal of specified risk material in all bovine animals slaughtered for human consumption, such as brain, spinal cord, intestine, to exclude human transmission. Fourth: In parallel with the above measures, studies have been carried out since 2001 by rapid testing of all animals killed and slaughtered and killed from 24 months of age and by all healthy slaughtered animals from 30 months of age in order to assess the development of the disease. I can assure you, therefore, Mr Maier, that my predecessor Herbert Haupt has already taken all the measures necessary to respond to this letter by Dr Schuller. The measures entered into force before my term of office as Minister of Health have been fully respected since then. It has been shown that the recent case of BSE of the crisis plan has worked smoothly and perfectly. I hope that this will continue to be the case in the future, ensuring a high quality and absolute high level of safety in the sense of consumer protection for Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13361	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13383	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier can't stop scandalizing. It only usually never comes out of it or anything at all. The sadness of this is only that one can do a relatively big damage with it, that any people, in that case it could be the farmers again, would be harming it. It is a suspicion, Mr Maier, that you have made this request only so that you can improve your statistics in relation to requests to the ministries, because the figures you wanted to ask are already legible at Statistics Austria. If everything in your speech has voted as your first remarks, in which you spoke of “Kalbin, ” then we know what we need to keep from your speech, for this report clearly and cleanly lists“ calves ” and “kalds. ” That is what the honourable Members in the House should know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to draw attention to the really central question in this regard. I'd like to ask you: Which country in the world would you prefer to be a consumer? In which country of the earth is there more safety for consumers? As far as animal health is concerned, Austria is the world’s peak in terms of food safety! Everyone can confirm that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am of the opinion that even Mr Maier will reply: Austria is the world's top, and it's best to be a consumer in Austria! We have also done a lot for this: We have a strict food code. We have a modern food safety and consumer protection law. We have a modern veterinary drug control law. We have an agency for health and food safety. We have over 1 000 meat research specialists in Austria. We have also achieved through these measures that the recent case of BSE, which occurred in Austria, could be dealt with correctly. We can confirm to consumers that the meat that comes to their plates is 100 percent in order and that they can enjoy the meat of Austrian animals in the future. We must say clearly and clearly: Even if a sick animal appears again, it does not come into the food cycle, not on the consumer's plate. Especially in this case, it was even the case that an animal that had already died was controlled, which underlines the double safety. Of course, there are many other measures that Austria has put in, but it is important that there are not laws alone, that there are no controls alone – we need our farmers who produce the food, and for our farmers it is necessary that they can generate income that they find the appropriate framework conditions to generate income. If I hear what Dr. Gusenbauer is proposing, I have to say: When implementing these proposals, we would have much less farmers in the future, if we had no longer available the food in this quality, with this food safety to the extent. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If Gusenbauer says that the agricultural direct payments were cut to half, I'll tell you: He doesn't know what he'd do with it! It is about security of supply, it is about the face of our country, and it is about jobs. Caster's proposal would mean a massively enhanced structural change. In particular, farmers would stop in the difficult situations, the landscape would no longer be managed in a comprehensive way, disadvantages for other economic areas, for tourism would be associated with this and a tighter situation on the labour market would occur. Finally, there are some 500 000 employees in Austria who are active in agriculture or in the downstream and downstream sectors. Such a measure would affect not only farmers but the whole rural area, the whole population. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, at the end of the project, Gusenbauer's proposal... [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: There is no annoyed enemy of the farmers than the peasantry!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13437	No, I can't, Mr. Cot. When the 5 minutes are over, they're over! That was your last sentence! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for the work he has done on this subject. Eßl.]] The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13468	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eßl has put this debate on the question of the reply, particularly Mr Maier's question a bit ridiculous. That is really not justified, because if you know that 6,000 to 8,000 animals have actually come into the food cycle without previous tests, then there is really nothing to laugh about! This is a very worrying and dangerous situation, which is discussed in this debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the last case of BSE in western Austria has shown how persistent and above all sensitive this topic is still. We had assumed that there would no longer be BSE, that it would no longer be a subject for us. Today we know it's not. It is not to be excluded for the future that there will continue to be BSE cases in Austria. I do not want to focus on whether crisis management by the ministry or the competent ministers has really worked as well as you have always heard and heard. The fact is, I would also like to criticize today, that the last BSE case, as we know today, has been silent for at least three weeks! I don't know why, but the fact is that the case became known only three weeks later. The question is why this case has not been dealt with in the context of the present crisis plan? But be it. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr. Collegue!]] –College Grillitsch, you can speak, but please let me do this now. [[Abg. Grill: Apparently you are not aware of what you are saying!]] I am therefore saying this, ladies and gentlemen, because in the field of food safety there must be no compromise from our point of view, and above all it must not be tacted, as is sometimes done by the EIA side. That is why we are already a little surprised at what information is now slowly showing up. We know that, I believe, except for dispute, that the only protection against BSE is the rigorous execution of these tests. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have always meant that these tests are actually being carried out in full with us. We have even partly believed in you, but today we know that it is obviously not true. Today we know that these tests have not always been carried out and that 6 000 to 8 000 animals have come into the food cycle without testing. I say that is a really dangerous situation, in the end, a scandal that will only occur at this time. I also say quite consciously: don't think if one of these animals were really sick! Ladies and gentlemen! An irresponsible situation – first of all to consumers, but also to farmers, because even so loud is cried out by this side, but ultimately also towards the meat-processing people in industry and industry. The letter has already been addressed, and now the question arises, Mrs Minister: What has really happened since 16.2.2002? My question is: How can you guarantee, Mrs Federal Minister, that in future these tests will really be carried out in such a way that they are safe? In the end, this is the crucial point. There were discussions in Europe about how these tests could be avoided. It was said that too much bureaucracy is associated with that they cost too much money. As a representative of the Socialist Group, I must say that a reduction in the quality of tests for us Social Democrats will never be in question, because food law is for us social democrats, because we are committed to consumers, to farmers, but also to workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13528	Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13550	Mr President. High house! Mr deputies, very briefly, because it cannot be left in the room like this: It's not true that no one was informed for three weeks. You know exactly how the case was in the Kleinwalsertal: The animal did not show any signs of BSE before its death, the animal was dead in the stable. It was picked up by the animal body exploitation of Germany – you know that the Kleinwalsertal is operated by Germany – and on 17 July it was collected. June – the animal ended at the end of May; 17th. June! – the Austrian Ministry of Health has been informed by the German Ministry of Health that there is an BSE suspicion. We ordered the exact test immediately and after the exact test, on the afternoon of the 21st. June, at 6 p.m., the press and the public understand and know exactly and widely. I'll tell you: It was wise, because there have already been ten BSE suspects this year, all of which have proved to be not right. I am in favour of informing us only if an BSE case actually occurs, because otherwise this only leads to public uncertainty, which of course also has economic effects on exports abroad. We want to protect Austrian agriculture here: If anything happens, then we will of course inform you about it, but not on a purely suspicious case. – There we are in good company with many other European countries. We will continue to do so, in the sense of the Austrian economy, agriculture and consumer protection, because this would also lead to consumer uncertainty. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13589	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13626	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, I would like to begin by thanking you for discussing the answer to the question, because it is also clear that, when I was still in charge of the Unit, nothing was beautified and nothing was turned under the carpet, but all the negative responses that we received at the time were immediately processed in the sense of consumer protection. Mr Maier, as Salzburger, you will remember that there has also been an EU report on the Salzburg-Bergheim slaughterhouse. In contrast to the animal welfare law of Salzburg and also the animal welfare law of Upper Austria, captive animals were slaughtered there, although they could not have been transported or taken to slaughter under the animal welfare laws of both countries. In some of these animals, the BSE tests were carried out at the time. Because the veterinary authorities there felt that they could save themselves, although the law had nevertheless been provided for, because it was clearly about leg fractures or other injuries in the animals. These cases were also the subject of the fact that we had checked the entire procedure at all, and the check proved true. It should not be forgotten in this situation that there are European countries that have a different philosophy in combating BSE. In this context, our neighbouring country Switzerland is to be called. For cost-saving reasons, Switzerland has an exclusive statistical review system, and for the 20 percent you check, you have between 8 and 16 BSE cases per year. This means that in the case of four cases not checked, these undiscovered cases are placed on the market. In Switzerland, it is obviously not a problem for animals to ‘slip through’ under the system. In Austria, especially in Vorarlberg, these Swiss considerations have always been revitalized to move from a comprehensive control system to a purely statistical system of control. I am very pleased that the attitude I have always had is still the attitude of the ministry today, namely not to go from the comprehensive system in order not to endanger the overall market for Austrian quality and for the products that our farmers supply and thus achieve a slightly better price. But I would also like to say here that trust is good, but control is better. Mr Damoser, who today accompanied the Federal Minister here, was the head of the authority who examined the case of BSE in Lower Austria at the time. And it should not be forgotten that at that time not only BSE has occurred, but also a judicial fraud process with EU funds of several hundred million schilling – with juicy punishments. Mrs. Federal Minister! In this debate, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that there are also strange laws in the European Union. Georgia – we know that about “animal doctors without borders” – has a total effect on pressing all the hens and other eyes, a maximum of two slaughterhouses that have semi-conform hygiene status. Nevertheless, it is enough in Georgia to pass a law to slaughter all animals in the slaughterhouse – although you do not have slaughterhouses! . which means money from the European Union to improve the budget, and then these products come to the European Union. I don't think that's what the European consumer wants. I also do not think that the Austrian farmers are well protected if these measures take place. I would therefore ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to act with the Minister of Agriculture in the European Union as soon as possible to ensure that the Georgians finally build slaughterhouses to comply with the hygiene regulations, are the standard, or otherwise the payments are suspended under this title and the Austrian farmers are protected that they are not threatened by this “pollutant competition” on the world market. I don't see another alternative. In this way, Mr Maier, this debate may also have a positive impact on Austrian farmers and Austrian consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13684	Last speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13705	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier has today quoted a letter from 2002 concerning poor BSE investigations. You, Mrs Federal Minister, have tried to clarify what measures were taken at the time that your colleague's head was still responsible for. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not true, however, that only Mr Maier was concerned and criticised here. In this context, I would like to remind you of a press release by the Styrian BZÖ speaker and longtime spokesperson of Federal Minister Haupt, Mr Grosz, on 22 February. In June, the public had not been informed for 20 days. – This says a representative of a government group or at least one of the parties to be assigned to the government. He is literally speaking of the possibility of a deliberate confusion of samples as in 2001. So this is in the room, which has also been thrown into the debate by representatives of the government side. It is therefore very legitimate for Mr Maier to have clear answers, which is exactly why the precautionary and risk plan, which the Federal Minister of State prepared at the time, has not been applied. This was also called for by representatives of the FPÖ. Why has this plan been changed? – That would be worth a discussion. I am opposed to any scandalism in this context in order to clarify this. We are also pleased that there has been so to speak no confusion in the consumer sector, in the markets et cetera, but it would be right to clarify what the changes have been and why they have come about. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the letter of Professor Schuller, it is also said, among other things, that there have been disagreements in the number of earmarks in which monitoring has been carried out. In this context, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to remind you of a very up-to-date reply to your question given to me by your colleague, Federal Minister Pröll, in May 2005. On my question as to how efficient the earmark marking system is currently in Austria, he answered me that the controlled establishments – which were just over 9 000 in 2004 – have been identified with more than 4 837 farms. Mr Donabauer, more than 50 percent of the controls have failed! But Minister Pröll has not been able to tell me what these shortcomings were explicitly in, because by 2004 it is not exactly what the shortcomings were in. He could only indicate those cases where there has been a barrier to animals, locks or culls. Ladies and gentlemen, the interesting thing is that since this system was introduced, the number of animals has increased dramatically. In 2001, it was 90, in 2002 137, in 2003 219 and last year 559. We see a system which is obviously implemented very poorly on the one hand and on the other hand also leads to barriers that are in need of explanation. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of BSE quality assurance and risk prevention is that we have a safety chain starting with ear markers, markings of cattle, and finally up to the examinations and evaluations. We must draw conclusions when such results are available and consider whether there are no more efficient methods. In this context, I would like to remind you of an EU Court Report on Mass Defects in the European Cattle Identification Area. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have repeatedly pointed out that there are more efficient, good labelling systems that are easier to understand, better in the labelling and in the matter, almost 100% falsification-proof, namely transponder markings; this is a label by means of “microchips”, which are already used in the pets and in horses. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be time to think about such a quality assurance of the future that leads to a European database. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Mr President. That was my closing word.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13776	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[15:39:26]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13797	I will resume the negotiations on points 2 to 4 of the agenda. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hakl. Madam President, you have been talking for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13821	Mr President. The Secretary of State! High house! We are back at one of the most important materials that we will probably decide in this year, in the law on equal treatment for the disabled. I think it was a certain window in heaven that, after long discussions and long efforts, allowed it to pass this law in this constellation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13843	Ladies and gentlemen, you don't understand the speaker at all! I would ask the numerous conferences to be held silently!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13858	On the one hand, it was necessary for a federal government to be as committed to the government in this area as it is to ours. On the other hand, it was also necessary to have a Member who works with such emphasis, seriousness, with the sense of what is still possible at this time, with feelings and feelings about when and at what time the most important thing needs to be done is that such a Member is with us in Parliament. I believe that we should all be particularly grateful to Mr Franz-Joseph Huainigg, who, with a commitment and a sensitivity, as it may rarely appear, has made this law very important. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman as well as with visitors to the gallery.]] Dear Franz-Joseph, we now owe you the best and comprehensive disability law in Europe. I would like to remind you that in Germany there is no individual right, which is excluded from the private sector, to provide for accessibility only in the case of new buildings, that there is no disabled person and that both the red-green government in Germany and all the disabled persons are not involved. associations of this, compared to our really not far-reaching law, have celebrated hymnically. Dear Franz-Joseph, we are celebrating you and this law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13906	Next, Mr. Dr. Lopatka will come to the speaker's desk. Also his preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13928	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can connect seamlessly to the statements made by my predecessor. Self-determined life is the goal of our disability policy, as stated in our principle programme. We have today been able to live up to this principle programme with this decision, which we will take in a few minutes. We do not let anyone take the joy we have that we are already ready for this hour, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And how little you take your own criticism from the SPÖ, one sees that, for example, Mr. Lapp has been criticized that the disabled lawyer would have too few possibilities. You have tabled an amendment, but you have not found it worth the effort, exactly what you have criticized here – you are hurting now, colleague Herbs; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs]] We have not taken them seriously for a long time, but I have taken Mr Lapp seriously so far – namely, the question of the disabled lawyer. – So far to your criticism that you practice here. What we decide here today, the Federal Disability Equality Act, fits precisely in with the disability and social policies that this Federal Government is following very consistently: The employment plan by the disabled billions, initiatives in the European Year for the Disabled, for example the report on the situation of the disabled, or the promotion of 39 NGOs totalling €800 000, have been decided here. Furthermore, the valorization of the care allowance, today the disability equalisation law and also the recognition of the deaf language. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this gives a round picture of a social policy, of a policy for the disabled, which is made by us, where we have credible representatives like Franz-Joseph Huainigg. You lack that in this question: credibility. We got her!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e13977	Mr Puswald, calls from your own place only! Mr Praßl is now speaking to us for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14002	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Today is a happy day for disabled people. This law of equal treatment, ladies and gentlemen, is intended to protect against discrimination in all situations of life, for example in the field of the working world, where much is happening. I also believe that it is time to finally work on this law and shape it in such a way that it is portable for disabled people. In order to offer new and improved opportunities for our disabled people also in the field of advice, this Federal Government will install a non-profitable disabled attorney. I think it's right, and I think the disabled lawyer will have a lot of work. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if there is discrimination in existing service relations, the new law also threatens the employer compensation and compensation payments. Furthermore, the rights of the disabled to equal pay for equal work and training should be guaranteed. With this draft law, the Federal Government has created an excellent basis for improving and facilitating much for our disabled fellow citizens and fellow human beings. However, we must always be aware of one thing: In order to achieve real equal treatment, we need a lot of tolerance and help for our disabled fellow human beings. I believe that these 800 000 disabled people will look forward to the present day and will be easier to live in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14044	As the last speaker, Mrs Stadler is speaking. It has also taken 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14065	Mr President. Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Facing mutual appreciation requires daily effort, awareness-building and constant work. This work, however, brings much joy, for it enriches the one who receives appreciation without making the poorer one who gives it. This way of life could be seen as the foundation of the long negotiations on the law on the equalisation of the disabled, because, in addition to the appreciation of people with disabilities, it is also a sign of appreciation for reducing barriers to take account of the needs of the disabled. Building barriers that meet a disabled person on a daily basis will be phased down. This requires the participation of city and community tours as well as the willingness of the local economy. But a ban on discrimination should also draw our attention to the fact that mutual appreciation not only for the disabled, but above all for us is a great enrichment, just as it is a great enrichment for us in the National Council to work together with our colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg. Dear Franz-Joseph, you have just developed in the negotiations for this government template infinite martial spirit and showed us all that it only succeeds with mutual appreciation to take a step in the right direction. I am convinced that the disabled in Austria will be proud to have such a representation in the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14102	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking now. 2 minutes speaking time; this is a voluntary restriction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14123	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we really wanted to celebrate something today, but there is nothing to celebrate, except if you are willing to agree to our amendment, because only then, ladies, can people with disabilities be given accusing rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The gentlemen are not allowed to vote, because you always say “damen”?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That would actually be the core of this law, because we finally have a backbone with which we can also prevent discrimination. But that's not in this law inside, and you know that you also got into your speeches. What, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to celebrate? Do you want to celebrate the problems that Mrs Partik-Pablé has identified and which I also experience on a daily basis, and these discriminations continue to exist now? Do you want to celebrate that you have managed to continue these discriminations? For they will not be removed, they will survive! There is no omission and removal of barriers. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true what you're saying! That's wrong!]] You know, ladies and gentlemen. They just don't want to take note of it. They want disabled people to scatter sand into the eyes. You don't. This is about human rights, and there is really no such thing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You know, I am not concerned with my personal law, but I am concerned with a law for all people with disabilities, so that they have the right to self-determined life in all areas of daily life; that is what I am about, but this right will not be granted to them by this law. Since I have been attacked by Mr Walch and Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer today, I would not have read this law and I should say something to you once, et cetera: I have had to deal with this issue, whether I wanted to or not, at the latest since my sixth year of life. From the time I was denied the regular school, I had to ask the question: Why don't I and why don't we? As long as I do disability policy, it's 44 years. And I don't let anyone tell me I don't understand this topic. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I live them! I have been living this problem for 50 years and with me many, many disabled people in Austria. You didn't realize and you didn't understand what we were talking about, otherwise you wouldn't have been able to swing these speeches here to motivate each other more or less now, what there is to celebrate. There's nothing to celebrate! Didn't you understand? There is nothing to celebrate, because we people with disabilities will also be tomorrow, we will be discriminated against even in January 2006 and in the next 15 years as we have been in our lives. And that's what you think of us! I don't mean it to the disabled. That is why we cannot agree. And if you were only willing to implement some of the most important demands, we could have discussed today whether the glass is half full or half empty. But you could not have this discussion, because the glass is only wet and does not contain any substance. That's why there's nothing to celebrate. Please be honest, leave this aside and finally fight with us so that we can get people with disabilities – it's about us – our human rights, which everyone else, of course, demands for itself, at last! We don't have them with this law either! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14185	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now come to a number of complicated votes, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask you to take up the seats, and the club staff to release the plenary so that we can see how the House's will-making takes place. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which establishes a federal law on the equality of people with disabilities and amends the Law on Disability, the Federal Disability Act and other laws, into 1028 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Lap, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. Mr Haidlmayr, ladies and gentlemen have also tabled an amendment or an additional amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, in a row by row, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(6)(5). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1(6), paragraph 5, as amended by the Committee's report. I am seeking the approval of those members of the House who give this part of the bill an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Cot, have tabled an additional request to insert a new paragraph 6 in Article 1(6). Those who vote in favour of this request, I would like to ask for a sign. – That is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. The Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(8)(3). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This amendment is also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1(8), paragraph 3, as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask for a positive sign if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Lapp, colleagues and Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, have tabled amendments to Rule 1(9) which are identical. Whoever agrees to these two amendments to Article 1 § 9, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the applications are rejected. We shall vote on Rule 1(9) as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Cot, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of new Sections 11 to 14 in Article 1 and the resulting amendments to the numbering of the following paragraphs. Whoever joins this supplementary request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Lapp, colleagues, and Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, have tabled amendments to Rule 1(12) which are identical. I would ask those Members of the House who give their approval to these requests for a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the applications are rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 (12) as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(13). I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Lapp, colleagues and others have also tabled an amendment to Article 1(13). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This too does not find the majority of the House and is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you agree to the Committee's report, I would ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(19). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to be a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1(19) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, have tabled an additional proposal concerning Article 2(7)k. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Lapp, colleagues and Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, tabled word-identical amendments to Rule 2(7)p. I would ask those Members of the House who are in favour of these requests for a sign. – This does not find the majority of the House and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2(7) as amended by the Committee's report. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Lapp, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment to Article 2(7). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this request to give a corresponding sign. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, also tabled an amendment concerning Article 2(7). I am looking for those members of the House who are for this to be a sign. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for this, I'm looking for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, have tabled an additional proposal concerning Articles 3(9) and 13c. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this supplementary request for a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. The Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 3 § § § 9, 13c and 54. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1028 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 116.) Now we come to the vote on the draft Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, together with the title and receipt in 1029 of the Supplements. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, I first of all define the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for this vote within the meaning of Article 82(2) (1) of the Rules of Procedure. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading with the constitutionally required two-thirds majority – because it is unanimous. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1029 of the Supplements. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign of approval. This sign is given unanimously, and the resolution is therefore adopted. (E 117.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, on the importance of the Austrian sign language for the deaf. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. . This motion for a resolution does not find the majority, it is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 1030 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:04:56]] 5. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (953 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Richterdienstsgesetz, the Land Teacher Service Law, the Land and Forestry Law, the Federal Staff Representatives Act, the Pensions Act 1965, the Bundestheater Pensions Act, the Bundesbahn-Pensions- law, the Federal Railway Act, the Service Law 1984, the Procurement Law 1989, the Federal Teachers' Teaching Obligation Act, the Guards' Aid Act, the Part-Retirement Law, the State Contracting Teachers' Law 1966, the Foreign Admission and Assistance Act, the Travel Fees Act 1955 and the Constitutional Court Law 1953 (Service Law Novelle 2005) (1031 d.b.) 6. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Land and Forestry Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Land and the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Land and the Law on the Laws of the Laws (1032, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14503	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Neugebauer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14531	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The two legislative instruments are the results of the social partners' negotiations, which my trade union Public Service has concluded with the Federal Government on a wide range of topics. I refer, for example, only to the exemplary use of guidance, which will now allow more precise classification of jobs. In connection with the merger of Gendarmerie and police in order to prevent any disadvantages, we have agreed to safeguard provisions. We have agreed that, for example, national officials, state teachers, when they change to the Federal Service, will be treated in accordance with the same pension conditions. We carry out customs bodies which, in the performance of their activities, can also be exposed to a threat, including under the protection of the Wachtebehörde-Helpungsgesetz, and we allow our national contract teachers and contract teachers from the agricultural and forestry schools, who have their own social security institutions in Tyrol and Upper Austria, to be cared for in these social security institutions, as well as their public-law colleagues. We are adapting the § 160 of the Civil Service Law for our university teachers – that when calling on contract professorships these time-dependent rights can also be included in official law for up to 15 years – and we have finally set up a pension fund scheme for public servants on a legal basis that will open collective contractual negotiations to us. And finally, in the course of the Constitutional Court's knowledge of the death toll, we agreed to a death-rate contribution, a special death-cost contribution, which will then be applied if, on the basis of a death-fall, an economic emergency arises for the survivors. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that the outcome of this negotiation, this social partnership negotiation outcome, will find the approval of all the political groups, but I would like to inform you, because the public service is usually always critical, but that it is happy to do so, in the near future a study by the European Central Bank, which has been selected in 23 industries. countries have tested the performance of the public service in international comparison. What is being cast out here in terms of economics and performance, including in relation to public service expenditure, can already be very proud of us. The total public service in Austria is third in the world to Luxembourg and Japan. That is what we can rightly be proud of! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Amon.]] I thank the public officials very much for their work, which not only ensures the rule of law in our country, but also represents an important parameter for the economy. – Thank you very much for your approval!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14582	Mr Wittmann is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14603	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! We will also agree to this new official service law, because essentially those demands which were not yet included in the first drafts are now taken into account. I should like to add the following comments: It is possible with this civil service law to make a more precise classification of jobs, it is possible for the national contract teachers of Tyrol and Upper Austria to switch to the national insurance institutions. It has also been taken into account in the Constitutional Court's knowledge, and it contains a system whereby the survivors of officials who die in the asset continue to receive an amount at the previous level. Survivors of retired officials also receive a special death fee up to the same amount if the funeral costs are not fully covered in the estate. These were two essential concerns that were not inside in the first drafts, and that would have meant that the officials would have lost €26 million. I believe that this is a reasonable solution, and that is why we can also agree with this civil service law. However, a wormhead drop remains: We have already tried in the Committee to reach a solution with an amendment, but unfortunately we have not yet reached a green branch. Nevertheless, we are also putting this amendment here in plenary; I will briefly explain it: A point 17a is to be added in Article 1 after paragraph 17: This is due to the acquisition – this is about the approximation of the high school students to the academic regulations of normal high school students, and that is what this standard of law is now called – of a diploma, master or doctoral degree according to § 87 para. 1 of the University Act 2002 or of a degree in diploma or magisterium according to § 5 para. 1 of the University of Applied Sciences Law. In the case of such a major innovation in civil service rights, it would have been appropriate to include the high-school academics of a system. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and this remains the wormhead drop of this novel. Nevertheless, we agree here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14653	The amendment tabled by Mr Wittmann, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights, tabled by Dr Wittmann, on the motion for a law in the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government template on the Service Law Novelle 2005, 953 of the Supplements, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14708	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. He too wishes a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14729	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Of course, the concern is justified, only: You can't make it that easy to adapt the appointment requirements a little bit and lose sight of the whole thing. For one thing has to be clear to us: that the official Service law, as it is present, as a whole, must be rethinkable within the framework of a uniform Federal Workers' Act, since above all the appointment requirements to which it relates must be adaptable. For example, it is not possible for an official to switch to an A-rated job, while it is quite possible for a contract staff member. This imbalance must be corrected. Novelle in itself. – The novelle was necessary. One of the key points of this amendment is the redesign of the directive, which was last defined in 1994. Due to various changes, whether in the structures of the federal army, or in the structures of the executive, it was simply no longer contemporary, and for this reason this need for change existed. As far as the Federal Workers' Act is concerned, we also expressed a concern in a committee statement, which has been taken note of and where we agreed to find a solution by the end of the first half of 2006. This solution will also include the problem raised earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14769	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. He wishes a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14790	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! There is no doubt that the Public Service Union has achieved some improvements. We will therefore also vote in favour. Nevertheless, one cannot claim that the situation of staff at universities is really rosy. 10 percent of the staff must be saved at the Medical University of Vienna, 5 percent in Innsbruck. In the Faculty of Humanities, entire disciplines are closed, for example in Innsbruck, language sciences, comparatistics, music, Latin, Greek-teaching, psychology and philosophy. People are insecure. Young scientists have few perspectives. Therefore, MEPs Green Forest, Broukal, friends, comrades and comrades are tabling an amendment to point 7a concerning § 160(2) 3. As for the sentence, the words “at the same time as 15 years of age have fallen away. ” That sounds very dry now, but I'll explain it to you: Until now, teachers have been appointed to a temporary or unlimited professor post to promote young scientists, to be selected from the pragmatized service relationship, and if this post is lost or deleted again, they cannot fall into the groundless, but can take away their pension and other claims. It has been seen that this transition to the private service relationship has not brought any financial improvements, in certain age groups even slight deterioration, coupled with the uncertainty that then the old claims of Pragmatization no longer exist. We therefore wish, in agreement with all of them, that university teachers should be completely reckless and that this time-limit should be fully extended. It will be possible, even if the trade union was able to achieve some improvement here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14841	The amendment tabled by Mr Grünewald, Mrs Grünewald, Mr Broukal, Mr Brosz, colleagues on the Government Template 953 of the Supplements to a Federal Act amending the Civil Service Law and other laws, Service Law Novelle 2005, as amended by the Committee's report, 1031 of the Supplements, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14924	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14945	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! This Service Law Novelle 2005 makes a number of detailed changes. My previous speakers have already mentioned this. Two points were decisive for the delay at that time, namely the legal basis for pension fund provision and, of course, the absolute provision on the basis of the findings of the Constitutional Court on death, funeral costs and care costs. This service law-novelle is also the basis for a future federal employee law. We know that the government programme provides for a remuneration reform, a service reform and, of course, a pension reform, and that, in the latter consequence, the foundations of the future Federal Workers' Act are also enshrined here, namely the independent service law in the public service – we must confess to it – and also the special termination protection provisions. I think these are things that the public service needs, because in the end one has to make sure that the public service is not exposed to political and social arbitrariness. That is, I think, very crucial. In my view, another point is also crucial, namely the future income structure. As an employer, I think we must also be aware that in the future we need federal employees and national employees who are highly qualified and, of course, can also experience a corresponding remuneration or salary. I mean, this should be done with discretion. I am confident that the trade union Public Service with its chairman Fritz Neugebauer and the ladies and gentlemen concerned in this area which will be mastered accordingly. With regard to the unequal treatment of higher education and higher education, which Mr Fauland also referred to, I believe that there have been very progressive adjustments since the entry into force of the High School Act, but there is certainly still an urgent need for action. All in all, I believe, this Service Law Novelle is quite committed to ensuring that, in the sense of our federal employees, a really good federal employee law will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e14996	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15018	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to take the opportunity, in connection with the present BDG-Novelle, to thank me personally, but also on behalf of my group, for their service to the public. In particular, I would like to thank the staff members of our Parliamentary Directorate very much – I believe that we agree, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the representatives of the SPÖ, the Greens, the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, a yes, a clear yes to the outcome of this negotiation, which has been achieved by social partnership. However, I would also like to take a short look at the two previous committee meetings. When I was on the 7th. In June the Committee pointed out precisely those three points where there was more than a need for clarification, namely as regards the survivors' regime and the absence of a pension scheme in the law, I was told how good it was and that it was not necessary. I am glad that the government then took back its own request and that we were able to negotiate here together and finally on 29 December. In June, a result could be achieved as well as all. This also shows, ladies and gentlemen, that we should take the necessary time for such materials, but I have often mentioned it to people, namely our colleagues in the public service. I believe that these points are an important contribution in the right direction. I do not want to address the individual points raised. I am particularly proud of the fact that my colleague, Marizzi, will continue to address the fact that social hardships have been eliminated in the area of death costs. But let me say one more thing here, Mr Fauland – I have already said in committee –: Also a confession to the fact that we also address the problem of specialist universities in a package – no question. But how do you explain – and I have not just experienced a discussion about it – that, where there are eight semesters at the colleges, we treat them differently against the universities? – It would have been easy to give these cases of eight-semester studies – only as an advance – the same solution. I think that justice should have been done in the middle of it, and it would have been possible without major problems. Finally, I would like to make a request – I would like to follow where Fritz Neugebauer has ended with his speech –: I believe that together we can be proud of our public service and its services. However, we should remember this over and over again, not only in many debates but also as a cost factor for public servants. I think our public servants should have our common recognition. They do a lot for our home country, for the Austrians and are indispensable! We are happy to agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15072	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15093	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We're talking about the Novelle Service Law today. The points of social security institutions, university teachers, pension fund schemes have been addressed by my colleagues as a preliminary speaker. We had two dates in the committee, in the Constitutional Committee, and Mr Pendl was right when he said here that we finally reached a consensus on the death cost contribution for economic emergencies. But you also have to say: When we read the letter to Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer meant that she cannot understand it. I am not going to repeat this now, and I cannot repeat that for reasons of time, but I believe that there are also people who are not in the high salary levels but in the low salary levels, and of course they also have a right – and we have a duty to ensure – that these regulations come into force, and I believe that it has finally become a consensus matter. I also do not want to hide that, after the first words of the Secretary of State and the colleagues from the ÖVP had been made: Quickly go through! and so on, then the “spiritual hand” of colleague Neugebauer came – and the law has already been resettled again, and then we had a second day in committee. So that's what we were accused of at first: You cannot understand what we mean! Mr Neugebauer then probably repaired with his competence in the ÖVP. Since it's a consensual matter, we like to agree to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15131	The last speaker was Mr Prehauser. He wants to talk to us for two minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15152	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is pleasant to take a position as the last speaker on a matter to which there seems to be unanimity in Parliament. However, Mr Pendl, I would like to say that we are pleased that the social partners still have the opportunity to make good proposals, even if It seems that decisions have already been taken. With reference to Otto Pendlund Fritz Neugebauer, I would like to say – and I apologise for this expression – that: Two old Haudegen are just able to move something, and one listens to it – and ultimately our officials benefit from it. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Langreiter spoke about a reform: A reform has not yet been done, it is a novel. Don't let's throw the kid out with the bath! We still have a lot to do and do here. I would like to remind you once again of the amendment concerning the technical colleges which Dr Wittmann has introduced, and I would like to ask you once again to support them in order to ensure balance and justice in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! I also thank the public service for the work done. I think that with such employees the state of Austria can only drive well! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15194	No one is reporting on this. A final word will not be desired. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall vote on the draft law on Service Law Novelle 2005 in 1031 of the Supplements. Mr Greenewald, Mr Broukal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. In addition, Mr Wittmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional proposal. First of all, I shall have to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Grünewald, Mr Broukal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(7)a. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Wittmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 17a in Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this supplementary proposal, Dr Wittmann, to give a sign. – This is the minority, and therefore the request is rejected. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – This approval is also granted unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Land and Forestry Law of the State Contracting Teachers, including the title and receipt in 1032 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this law, I ask for a sign. – The sign is done unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – The draft law will also be adopted unanimously at third reading. [[16:30:01]] 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-143 e.g.) of the Court of Auditors on airspace surveillance aircraft: Purchasing contracts, financing, counter-business agreement (Bund 2005/3) (1050 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15300	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr. Dr. Kräube. His welcome time is 5 minutes. Before I give you the floor, I may ask Members to take the places. I'm also asking you to stop this wreath over there. [[in the direction of some officials staying between the already occupied seats for staff of the resorts and the Bureau]] Mr Eichtinger and so on: This is not an image that corresponds to Parliament! All those who don't have a seat, I ask you to leave the hall. The speaker's desk now comes to Mr. Dr. Herz. [[Abg. Neudeck: He's already there!]] 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15334	High house! If, too, Mr Finanzminister's wreaths slowly towards the end, I would start by finally cleaning up with an adventurous nonsense which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has frowned on these days. [[Abg. Neudeck: No, one can't wurl!]] [[Vivid Öh Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you know what the Federal Chancellor meant, ladies and gentlemen? – Because of large sporting events...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15376	Mr. Deputy Herbs, have you really said “the adventurous nonsense of the Federal Chancellor ”? [[Calls:Yes]] Do you take this back?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15403	I'm going to...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15421	Yes or no? – Otherwise, I will give you an order call!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15436	I will do this once, and then the House can make an opinion on whether this is an adventurous nonsense or not what has been said here. [[Vivid calls at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15467	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a call for order. We are at the beginning of a difficult debate. I would like the House to discuss this in a civilised manner and the dignity of the House. You are speaking again, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15491	Well, the Federal Chancellor has actually stated that, due to large sporting events, for example, the Olympic application of Salzburg or the European Football Championship, Eurofighter should be purchased. [[Abg. Fauland: No, airspace security...!]] You have to imagine this: Now the people are looking into the sky, watching F5 leasing jets from Switzerland fly by and wondering: [[Abg. Oils: Adventure!]] And should this not be possible in a European Championship with Switzerland? But I would also like to clean up with the historical chuzpe, that it is said that Kreisky and Vranckky knew that interceptors are necessary, and today's SPÖ do not know that. [[Abg. Oils: This is adventurous!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Has the Federal Chancellor overlooked that the Draken were purchased at a time of the Cold War? [[Abg. Scheibner: But that was wrong anyway, because it was half a solution!]] And do you really believe, Mr Scheibner, that Kreisky or Vransky want to paint the airspace of Austria, a country surrounded by EU countries, with highly equipped fighter jets? [[Abg. Scheibner: I will explain this to you!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is a martial expression!]] I really have to say that the shield citizens carried light into a house that had no windows, but compared to the Eurofighter purchase it was still a high-tech project, colleague Scheibner! I really have to tell you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors is very critical of the purchase process. President Fierce in 2004 said that much was not comprehensible. President of the Court of Auditors Moser says that the Eurofighter is only limited enough for airspace surveillance. – Well, what about the contract now? It is really incredible, Minister Platter, that you say that something has happened transparently here – you always say: clean, correct and transparent – if you do not even show the Treaty to Parliament. With 6 to 8 million, will the Austrian taxpayers be taxed? A treaty, where it is said that whole parts are marked with ‘NATO Secret’ – and you do not even want to show it to Parliament, not even to the Committee on the Court of Auditors, even in a confidential session, do you not even want to see it?- Oh, my God! – That’s really incredible! And please save us this: Don't say you're not allowed to do that! Of course, it would be necessary to submit to an investigation committee of this Treaty, and therefore, of course, it can also be shown to a Court of Auditors Committee. Everything else is ridiculous. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Or, ladies and gentlemen, there are quite other reasons to cover up this treaty. I just mention a single example related to the location question. In May 2003, Minister Platter referred to the following points as read: According to Platter, the 18 Eurofighters are stationed against other rumors in Graz and Tentweg. What does the same minister say in the same “Small Newspaper” on 25 May? June 2005? – “A second location would mean high costs.” – So, Mr Minister, don’t be angry with me, you must show us the contract once. What's in there about the locations? Or is it true that the “Small Newspaper” also writes that insiders are unsealing, and that it has long been said that there have been huge bends of the procurement guidelines? – So you will have to deal with this accusation, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! A short while longer to the role of BZÖ-Obmann Haider. A role of him is already clear: As a self-named Robin Hood, he has resigned and has long since become the pilot of the nation, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15616	Deputies! Nor does this word correspond to the dignity of the house. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Take the word back? That would otherwise be the second call for order. I'll give you another call for order, and you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15655	Mr President. I would like to draw attention to this: Even today, the secret contract of the Dr. Jörg Haider will become known. [[Abg. Neudeck: First of all, he's not secret,...!]] Point 1: The party finances a car at its sole disposal to the head of the Carinthia. Point 2: The party provides Haider with a flat-rate amount of 5 million schillings per marketing year. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's a spreeman!]] Then all ladies and gentlemen can take a picture here in the house and in the public, as that is to be called. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ: A spoon rider!]] Finally, I would like to mention what Mr Haider has to say about the Eurofighter purchase. On the question of whether he has a suspicion that there has been criminal offences, he says: “Absolutely”, “absolutely”! – And he says: I'm missing the evidence, but anyone has benefited. Does treason pay off? [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that?]] So if you, ladies and gentlemen, want to simply bury this today, bury the discussion about the Eurofighters, then you obviously follow an instruction from the head of the Carinthian state to hide everything here, and therefore Haider is not only massively criticised in the area of Spesen but also in the cover-up of the whole Eurofighter matter. [[Abg. Scheibner: Say something new!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: A new argument!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We want to hear a new argument!]] But be sure: This Treaty will one day see the light of Parliament and the light of the public!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15791	I call Mr Gahr. His welcome time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e15812	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that the speech of the honourable Member is adventurous and without responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: But what the Federal Chancellor says...!]] [[Abg. Gaál:... responsible! Take care of yourself!]] All in all, it is not responsible that the opposition to the last Committee of the Court of Auditors has been withdrawn for no apparent reason. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They have failed to provide three Federal Ministers with eight and a half hours for discussions and discussions. And this is not responsible that you have not put up with this discussion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's a nonsense!]] The opposition did not exercise its parliamentary control rights. There are only two options for those present at this committee meeting: On the one hand, it was so that some probably followed the request of my colleague Pilz and were seduced to take off. On the other hand, from my point of view, the truth is that they have been looking for a reason to go out. [[Abg. Gaal: nonsense!]] And I think that disqualifies itself! Whoever does not participate must not criticize! The Court of Auditors has examined. Please note! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Red and green have again proved in this committee that they are actually calling the Court of Auditors into question with their inaccurate attacks, speculations, suspicions and style. [[Abg. Gaál: No, the Court of Auditors...!]] And I think you should think about it, too, where we are standing here at all. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The process! The process – and not the Court of Auditors!]] To question the Court of Auditors... – Mr Wittmann, you were not there. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The process!]] You can't criticise there either. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What the Federal Chancellor said was nonsense!]] The Court of Auditors shall act in accordance with the Federal Constitutional Act, the Court of Auditors Act and the Rules of Procedure. And, my colleague, herbs, that's not an investigation committee! With this Eurofighter acquisition, we have security in the airspace for 30 to 40 years. We meet the requirements of the present and the future. And we have clearly stated in the competition procedure – and the Court of Auditors has explicitly mentioned this – that the Eurofighter has clearly emerged as the best bidder. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Counter-actions: It brings us over 15 years of counter-businesses in the volume of € 4 billion. In 2004 these were submitted in the order of 330 million and subjected to the test procedure. 104 Austrian companies have already benefited from this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In total, Austria has negotiated well: Overall, we have seen more volumes in the counter-business than other countries can achieve. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Call me a counter-business!]] Austria is only because we are a high technology country, able to participate in these compensation operations. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's nonsense!]] Austria simply benefits from the proximity of the European market. It is also about ensuring jobs that we strengthen the Austrian economy; and with these Eurofighter counter-businesses, we can safely achieve this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Puswald]] The Eurofighter project, Collaborative Herbs, is not a “warring and arms project” in super-dimensional form, it’s not a “scandal or cover-up project”, it’s not a “deal” and no “moving” and no “billion grave”, as you’ve seen in countless press releases. [[Abg. Reheis: What is it...?]] The Eurofighter project is a security and peace project for which every country in Europe has to make its contribution. It is a solidarity project for which every country is responsible. And it is a European economic project. Go inside! Think about how seriously you take safety! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16028	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable time: 8 minutes. . I am setting the clock accordingly, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16065	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Minister! If my previous speaker said that Members had left the committee without apparent reason, this is obviously due to the density of your political glasses. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, right!]] [[Abg. Gahr: Kindergarten!]] In any event, I should like to remind you that as far as the question is concerned, whether an investigation committee is the appropriate instrument for this process and what these things are to be dealt with in the Court of Auditors' Committee has been going on and off for a long time. It is a legitimate debate. I'm just telling you: When it comes to issues such as contract disclosure or partial consideration of issues which are not subject to military secrecy or special business confidentiality obligations, it is a matter of whether in this Republic in the only body, where this can take place at the moment – because there is no investigation committee because of your refusal – there can at all testify to these proceedings when it comes to the matter, there is a clear handling in § 40 of the Rules of Procedure for the Disclosure of Persons. If, however, all this – and not just now, but for over a year! – you will not expect us, as members of the opposition, to follow your example and to attend these machinations of the government, especially the majority here – I could also say: [[Abg. Murauer: What do you mean by machinations?]] It's lully! You won't really expect that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutors with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What is the nature of this? – For example, the refusal to load the witnesses! That's the point. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are not witnesses in the Court of Auditors!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: These are information people!]] We have given you once again the opportunity to load, for example, the head of the procurement or the general police inspector and others who at the time have written in a file note that they are against this decision and against the procurement of this product, for a number of reasons. [[Abg. Scheibner:... five times explained!]] That's exactly what it would have been like to discuss there. I will therefore stay with it for so long, because it concerns the basic question as to how the Control Committee can work in this House, which is probably the name of it. And if it comes to the conclusion that the majority who now support the government – that is the right thing – that this majority does not allow anything at all, contrary to previous practices, then this is once again a quantum leap! And that de facto results in total refusal of control, which is why this extract took place. [[Abg. Hornek: Yes, because you have gone out! That was the refusal of control!]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tried very well to find a common way of doing this. Now I come back to this occasion. Of course, from our point of view, it cannot remain that few officials and a few ministers in this Republic know what is about this Treaty, no one else! All others are to “grapple ” somewhere! – It is in the Constitution that three officials are allowed to know what is contained in such a contract? [[Abg. Hornek: Because it is thus set in the Constitution!]] Go inside! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: The Constitution does not contain it, but...!]] The point is: If there is a political debate on how to deal with this thing or with Enning, namely the procurement, the signing of the contract and the possible delivery – certainly not the one for known reasons – then you cannot seriously believe that this disadvantage is a favourable condition for a semi-plausible debate! It is also the opposition's right to see at least a few things. However, this is consistently refused – and you wonder if we do not want to play with it! I can tell you, however, what causes you to pursue your policy of walling here. They refer exclusively and repeatedly to Court reports, to statements by ministers and otherwise. But the last Court of Auditors report has already worked out very clearly that Eurofighter GmbH could only be so-called best bidder in a tiny corridor under completely limited, relatively narrow track. You have also been able to read from the Court of Auditors' report about the fact that the completion of these circumstances has been carried out exclusively or mainly – I am saying that manipulations have been made in response to the call for tender. I say – for the third or fourth time – that: Only the choice of the financing variant has affected the so-called military decision at the end. The financing variant was claimed by the Ministry of Finance. When? – A night or, if you want, a day before the decision! It was not at all apparent from the invitation to tender that a single financing variant should be used. That alone would have been worth questioning or rebutting your statements here, but it comes, in the order, even thicker. If you already believe that this should have been the best bidder, then look to the Court of Auditors' report now! [[Abg. Neudeck:... is it not in this report at all!]] If you apply for this report, the period shall be considered from the so-called type decision to the signing of the contract. [[Abg. Hornek: You missed a committee report!]] From this time period, some of the points raised by the Court of Auditors in its report remain completely open to this day. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can't expect you to understand!]] The reduction from 24 to 18 is – not that you should be particularly saddened! - of course, no small matter. They claimed from the government parties in the summer of 2002 that the whole was due to the so-called flood disaster. [[Abg. Scheibner: No!]] I have here a document of the Financial Procuratorate of 1. In July 2002, there were already requests for the possibility of reducing from 24 to 18 pieces without repeating the invitation to tender. That's how you drove! That's the point! In addition, in its first opinion, the Financial Procuratorship reported that this would not be possible without a new invitation to tender. However, you have removed this from the table, and then the flood has to come. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not at all! Who said that for floods...? Completely wrong!]] I still claim that it was an abuse of flood victims as if some euro could be saved. And that's proveable too! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You have – and I say again: Thank God! – a cost corset which does not lead to the possible spending of 3 billion purely for the creation of the Eurofighter system. Tactically not stupid, they said that this must be below 2 billion – 1,9 anything, some humanic price – and so it ended up. [[Abg. Hornek: This is a humanic speech!]] However, it was perfectly clear that Eurofighter was not at all willing to deliver 24 pieces to this price. That too is understandable! [[Abg. Murauer: But not for everyone, just for you!]] That's why you've wonderfully mixed things together, maimed them, and in the end said: Now we are still saving, because now we are taking 18, which cost only 2 billion. You have no doubt that you have put a lot of cost components out of the unit costs as well. Why did you do that? – First of all, because of the humanic price, and secondly because of the right to award, because it is, of course, highly problematic! They needed three opinions until at least one wrote: If at all, then it is only on condition that unit prices do not become more expensive – which is funny if it gets less – and at the same time no other criterion is changed. What did you do? – At the piece prices you have juggled and manipulated, because at the same time the system prices have increased, because you have pushed it out, clinging to this opinion. But the opinion also said that no other must-criteria must be changed at the same time. But they have changed a number of must-criteria. And all of this is in this Court of Auditors report. Therefore, the Court of Auditors also follows under 15.2, that this ‘action of the BMLV’ was ‘responsible at very high risk’. The question whether or not a beekeeper would have occurred afterwards or not – which would have brought everything to an end – has never answered! The Court of Auditors cannot do that; it has made it clear and clear, because it is only possible to calculate under “non-respect of” certain circumstances, namely all commercial, commercial “instantly liability, delivery date and payment date”. Yes, please, what does that mean? – The decision that we should also finance an interim solution of €75 million has not been received in the Court of Auditors’ assessment at all! But we have reckoned: According to the evaluation criteria of your Commission at the time, an additional price of 75 million would have already been achieved for all the payment variants of the famous bidder crash! – That’s why You have every reason to hide these things. It turns against you over and over again. And you also always use the Court of Auditors' report, which is relatively serious, but which cannot and will not calculate certain things at all. And that is what the Court of Auditors also wrote in this report: The question of interim solution is not assessed. If you had done according to your own rating schedule, the Eurofighter would have been in no imaginable variant best bidder. That is why you have promoted this into that blackout, in which you now have to maintain your debates in principle. That's where it meets again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Finally, on the form of funding, because the Minister of Finance is present and there is his own financing chapter in this report – he will be agreeing again to the High Song on how great it has been negotiated –: Do you know what the process was simple and gripping? – The Republic would have been better advised to simply finance it through the budget, possibly in nine years, possibly even once – perhaps Maastricht-related issues – but the Triple A would always have been better than leaving these financing conditions to a supplier. The financing conditions of Eurofighter were extremely bad, but now they stand up and say that the Federal Finance Agency should negotiate something better – yes, art! In that bandwidth that remained open – and that's not a little money! – was of course a lot inside, because the Republic is now bringing in its mass of liability, in this case in favor of the BAWAG PSK. - Yes, it is. [[Pfoh!- Call at the ÖVP.]] But it's not a piece of art to negotiate a little better here! Let us ask the Minister for Finance: If we had set ourselves a direct financing, we would have saved much more money! [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as representatives of the SPÖ.]] The best – or the worst – in the end: If we had done so, all these financing variants, which you respectfully used the Commission's assessment, would have been macular! Would we have said from the outset: The Republic is funding this quite normally! – what would have been reasonable and what it is now going on in parts – then the whole tinnober would have stopped, and Eurofighter would not have been best bidder again according to your own tendering conditions. You see: A committee of inquiry will need to be set up, because you will not be clear before. It may be that other majorities will bring about this Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Hornek: In the year 4000!]] You're always a catholic on the go: Get inside in time, clean in time Your conscience, because afterwards it's too late!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16382	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16403	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! It is already a bit strange and quite amusing, which occurs in the argumentative line of some who are standing here at this speaker's desk. At Collaborative Herbs you can see quite clearly: As far as security policy is concerned, he still needs to sharpen his eyes, for what has gone on there is more of a lion's stage level. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: (in the direction of the president-in-chief Dr. Khol) may he say so?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: ( towards SPÖ) This is another award!]] On behalf of Mr Kogler: It is amusing, Mr Kogler, that you, on the one hand, still criticised the tender criteria as 100 percent on the grips in 2002, but now stand at this speaker's desk and say that everything has been focused on the Eurofighter. But that seems to be so with some memory curves. As far as dealing with the Court of Auditors is concerned, it is no longer so encouraging to me that what has been done in committee, because the Court of Auditors was clearly deprived of confidence there. The Court of Auditors has taken note of this Treaty, has examined this Treaty and, as it is its duty, has included all its findings in this Report of Conduct. But this seems to be too little for some colleagues, because these colleagues feel that they are chairmen of committee of inquiry and do not want to accept that there is no majority in favour of a committee of inquiry. For this reason, the Court of Auditors has to deal with what the Court of Auditors has presented to Parliament – and not give in to nebulous presumptions and from “Tatsachen”, which one suspects somewhere, then work out any stories. However, it is likely that colleagues herbs are only so irritated because he cannot publish this contract on his internet page, on which he is presented as a mister “Top Secret!” and thus does not comply with the claim to a “Top Secret!” man. As far as the content of the Court of Auditors' report is concerned – because we should actually talk about it – the Court of Auditors is talking about a restricted LRA, my favorite subject. This must be taken note of. What does “limited ” mean now? . We have heard very often, especially from Mr Gáal, that this is only a battle bomb designed for ground-air operations. This is now clearly rejected by the Court of Auditors' report, as equipment and equipment of this purchased aircraft represent a minimum variant that is only suitable for airspace surveillance operations. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Flying cameras!]] – No, this minimal variant is already armed! That's not the way it is. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Ah so, already armed!]] A bit strange in this context is also the question of what my colleague has said about herbs: Is there a need to protect international conferences or major sporting events? – This need is essential in Europe, except in Austria. This does every country, that does Switzerland, that does Germany; this has even done Czechia at the NATO summit in Prague. That's what all countries do. This leads me to the next step: It is also only Austria that the procurement of an airspace surveillance aircraft is slaughtered politically for so long, because in all other countries – you see Germany! – it’s a political consensus. Even in the election campaign, this is not the subject of this in Germany. This is why we are already asking the question: Is this about cheap polemics and populism? Or is this about responsibility? That concludes me: The responsibility is also something that Mr Herbe should slowly ask himself what he is doing in his own country with his demands to order the Eurofighters. The responsibility of the Minister of Defence will then be to stop the jet operation in Austria on non-purchasing. Its responsibility will also be to put the 1,000 tentway staff, most of whom are contract staff and can therefore be discharged if there is no need for them any more, then really on the road. I am very pleased when Mr Herbe supports these people at the AMS when they have to submit their requests for unemployment benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16504	The Federal Minister for Defence Platter has spoken. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e16525	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Col. on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that today I am able to address the need for airspace surveillance aircraft around the third Court of Auditors report – and of course I can also comment on the Court of Auditors report. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A responsible security politician will tell you that the biggest threat in 21. ==References====External links== That is why there must be no gap in the Austrian security network! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, the procurement of these 18 Eurofighters was necessary for active airspace surveillance over the next 30 to 40 years. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If Mr Herb has already said today that he doubts whether airspace surveillance aircraft is at all necessary, I will tell you why they are necessary: [[Abg. May. Gaßner: He didn't say that! He just said that the Swiss...!]] First of all, because we are under constitutional obligation to maintain air sovereignty. Secondly, in order to counter the threats arising from the air, airspace surveillance aircraft are needed. Thirdly, it is also important that the air police tasks are carried out. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Is this all done with diesel aircraft, too, Mr. Minister?]] That is, if aircraft enter our airspace illegally or not, it will probably be necessary that we have airspace surveillance aircraft that ascend, contact, accompany, or – if necessary – intercept. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Is it with diesel aircraft, too?]] And, of course, on the fourth, honourable Member's herbs, it is also necessary that major events be monitored. Now I'm telling you the following: I was only recently in Salzburg and, together with the Federal Chancellor, spoke with the responsible ones – with the mayor of the city of Salzburg and the adviser to the head of state of Salzburg – about security for the 2014 Winter Olympics. Do you know what their opinion on security looked like? – Mr Mayor Dr. Heinz Schatz has clearly said that airspace surveillance aircraft are of course necessary and that he admits that we obtain 18 Eurofighters. Mrs Landeshauptfrau has taken note of this benevolently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: This is done with diesel too!]] Now to the type decision: I can inform you that a 33-member expert committee has dealt very intensively with this matter, and this Commission has recommended that the government give the Eurofighter the prize-performance ratio to the Eurofighter for the following reasons: first of all, because the price-performance ratio was the best for the Eurofighter; second, because the Eurofighter is the only European device – it will monitor 638 Eurofighter parts of the European airspace in the future; and, secondly, because it is a device that has a European future. [[Abg. Gaál: This will have an impact on the country elections! Half has already been canceled!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Who is to believe this?]] In this debate, as far as the type decision is concerned, it must not be forgotten that it will, of course, make sense for us to have the same devices as Italy and Germany, so that good cooperation is possible. Technical training is currently taking place in Germany. Pilot training will also be carried out there. That means that we can save costs and also ensure good cooperation with our neighbours. – It was only possible with this type decision. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has taken these recommendations seriously by the 33-member Commission and has therefore decided on this procurement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! As far as the product is concerned, I can tell you: The Eurofighter is on a success course! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Now it's getting ready for stage!]] You know, there have also been debates here in the House when it comes to urgent questions that the performance of the Eurofighter would not be all right. You can all remember that statements have been made that the Eurofighters cannot fly at minus degrees. [[Abg. Murauer: such a fool!]] It is true that the airspace surveillance aircraft were tested in northern Sweden at minus 32 degrees on the ground, and the results were excellent. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You stayed on the ground too!]] Secondly, you can remember that it was said that the Eurofighter could only spend some time in the air. It is true that the Eurofighter has flown 13,000 kilometres from the UK to Singapore and back again. – So all these statements are really to be rejected, because the truth is a completely different one. I told you once in a debate that the head of the American Air Force, General Jumper, said after a flight with the Eurofighter that he was amazed at the quality of this device. In addition, he made a very remarkable statement, namely that European high-tech technology in this area is equivalent to the US. I think if that's what the head of the American Air Force says, that's enough. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You hear an important message from EADS! It's the Minister of State!]] One more thing: It was, I believe, also some Members of the AirPower05. There more than 250 000 spectators were present, and all were able to convince themselves of the performance of the Eurofighter. If you list all of this, I think you can clearly say that the Eurofighter is on a success course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Court of Auditors reports – I say quite consciously: the Court of Auditors reports – are concerned, it is clear that: Eurofighter has been identified as best bidder. Even if it is always repeated here: There was no manipulation and gift acceptance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] All ads – against Herbert Scheibner, against me – have been returned by the prosecutor's office. I think it is actually interesting that, despite this assessment by the Court of Auditors, it is always claimed that there has been manipulation. I believe that a serious debate must also take note of the fact that the Court of Auditors has simply come to a different conclusion. Thirdly, The best beekeeper survey is coherent and comprehensible, and despite a reduction in the number of pieces and a reduction in the range of performance, there has not been a beekeeper collapse. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can't claim that!]] This has been determined by the highest test body of the Republic of Austria. Of course, there have been suggestions, recommendations and also criticisms that we take very seriously. In view of the fact that no special arguments have been put forward today, I would like to address two essential points which the Court of Auditors has communicated in its report. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: To the location, to the contradictions do not forget to say something!]] The first point is to reduce the scope of performance. To this end, I can tell you that every nation has to configure its Eurofighter in terms of quality as it is deemed necessary for it. Therefore, there are tailor-made solutions according to the needs of the individual nation. In Austria, we have taken the path towards the principle of effectiveness, economic efficiency and also economy. That is why we have chosen a solution at the Eurofighter that he can fulfil the national tasks. By reducing from 24 to 18 pieces, the Eurofighter will not be in use internationally, but will only perform national tasks. We've been looking for the classic air-air solution, and no air-ground solution. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Hot Air Solution!]] Criticism has always been expressed that we order warbombers. – That’s not the case! That is why we have configured the Eurofighter in such a way that we can carry out the national tasks – classical airspace surveillance – and I believe that this was very important and essential at that time. It is important to know that the Eurofighter will be available for active airspace monitoring for the next 30 to 40 years, but if the security situation changes, we can also expand the functionality so that all possibilities are given. [[Abg. Neudeck: It hurts them so much!]] We do not need it at the moment, and that is why we have been looking for a economical solution. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: What about the locations? You still owe it!]] Finally, with regard to the scope of performance: All 18 Eurofighters are fully operational day and night. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This is something special...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another point was that the Court of Auditors informed us that it was necessary to develop a new operational-tactic approach. We have taken this recommendation very seriously, and we have such a concept. Let me address these four threat scenarios: This concept, which our experts have developed, provides the normal situation on the one hand. That is, airspace monitoring is normally ensured 365 days a year, as is done internationally in other areas. The second scenario is the crisis-like development. This means that an increased threat image will also be used to increase the use of our resources. The third point is temporary and spatial object protection at major events. – I have already mentioned the statements of mayor’s damage as regards the Olympic Winter Games. That's perfectly clear. The 2008 European Football Championship needs perfect airspace security to be carried out. At the Central European Catholic Day, we also took this measure. – That is the point three of the threat scenarios, and that is why we have created this opportunity. The fourth point is that we carry out cross-border airspace security operations with other nations. Let me give you examples: In Davos at the World Economic Summit, we worked very well and intensively with Switzerland. When the presidential meeting between Bush and Putin took place in Bratislava, we also carried out international airspace operations in intensive cooperation. These are the four scenarios and the concept we have created. We have responded to what the Court of Auditors has told us. These four scenarios and associated airspace surveillance and protection are carried out by Eurofighter, Saab 105 and helicopters. The passive elements such as “gold hood” and the mobile radar systems are added. One last point on this concept: We are working on the principle of appropriate response. Today, it has been criticised for dealing with the disclosure of the Treaty, and I would like to deal with this situation. Mr Kogler! I don't understand this criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: He would explain it to you!]] I honestly do not understand the behaviour you have shown in the Committee that you have refused the discussion. You know why? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's an increase in the opposition, what you're saying!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Puswald) Calls only from the square!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now explain to you why disclosure of this contract is not feasible for the Minister of Defence. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Own the heart and prove it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Treaty contains technical provisions whose secrecy is in the interests of comprehensive national defence, according to Art. In paragraph 20, point (b) is replaced by the following: 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act. Secondly, this contract contains commercial provisions whose secrecy is in the interests of the contracting parties. Ladies and gentlemen! Thirdly, for these two reasons, a military procurement contract has never been signed because it does not work for the Minister of Defence under the Constitution, since he is obliged to remain in office. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I call you another point: I remember 1987. At that time there was the same debate, and the subcommittee, which was then set up on the subject of the Dragon succession, demanded that the Treaty be opened. The same discussion, the same situation. Do you know how the whole thing went then? At that time – under the Federal Chancellor Dr. Franz Vranitzky – the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has stated that, on the basis of the provisions of the Treaty, it cannot be disclosed. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Don't vote in an investigation committee!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have the documents available here. This was decided at the time – also under a German chancellor Dr. Franz Vranitzky! What happened at that time will still apply today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The last point: I would ask that the top organ of the Republic of Austria be taken so seriously that it is sufficient for these documents and also the purchase contract to be consulted and the examination is carried out and we now have the opportunity to debate the outcome of the Court of Auditors. I really ask for an understanding of the fact that a defence minister has to act in the way the federal constitution provides. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As regards the exit from the Treaty: It is always called upon to leave the Treaty. I'll tell you: I don't even think about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Do you know what that means? – Getting out of the contract means ending with airspace monitoring. Would you like that, ladies and gentlemen? Can you answer that? I am a Minister of Defence and the government cannot answer that with certainty! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Let's buy something better, cheaper!]] [[Abg. Gaál: F-16!]] Dear colleague Gaál! I'm dealing with the SPÖ now. Remember: In 1985 there was a red-blue coalition. At that time, the procurement of Draken was decided, and it was also decided to deal with the Draken succession. - That was 1985. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Cold War was then!]] [[Abg. Gaál: ÖVP Styria!]] Let's go on: In 1996 and 1997, under the red and black coalition, the basic decision was taken to make the plans for the new airspace surveillance aircraft. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are the only ones who have a straight line!]] In 2000, even during the coalition negotiations, the SPÖ has always expressed a clear and clear yes to the airspace surveillance aircraft. Ladies and gentlemen! What, please, has changed? – Repeat since you are in opposition You're always bitten, you don't need airspace surveillance planes, stop, you want to get out of the contract. [[Abg. Faul: Did you sleep Europe, Minister?]] So I would ask that what happened five years ago should still apply today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To conclude: I and the government are concerned that there is no priority in the security policy of populism. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: (keeping up two newspaper articles) Tell me about the location! You seem to have forgotten that!]] It is about that we are there for the security of the people in the Republic of Austria. The purchase of the Eurofighters is an essential element for security in Austria. Again: Eurofighter was best bidder! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17063	The next item is the report by Mr Puswald. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17084	They heard an important message from EADS. It spoke of the Minister of Defence, who is reliable about the content of the contract. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Minister of Defence! High house! I'm glad I've met your wounded point. Thank you for the applause. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lentsch: Your party didn't understand the fun!]] After a financial and economic policy and defence disaster, this takeover has become a democratic scandal for this Second Republic. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is military engineering, Mr. Cot?]] Never in the Second Republic has there been an attempt by a federal government to disable Parliament in one of its most important functions, namely the control function. This is a process that does not only justify the extract, but also makes it necessary to demonstrate to the public what this Federal Government actually intends to do, namely to disable any control, not to put itself in parliamentary control, and, according to Mr Gahr and you, Mr Missethon, to sell it as an act of Christian charity, with the argument that the poor opposition should not be exerted in this way. – No, thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: That's a premise!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unemployed!]] Mr Federal Minister, this disaster has already begun with the fact that you dared to sign a contract for the acquisition, even before you were authorized by this House. I congratulate you on this piece you just presented to us: You have bought it as a private man, and you will probably still have a problem in the future, because at least under changed circumstances the whole will be subject to legal discussions. [[Abg. Fauland: But now we are afraid!]] Mr Federal Minister, you are calling for a serious debate, but I am not going to answer your question, Mr Fauland, and I understand that you do not have the insight, and I am glad to tell you this, where this technologically disastrous development has begun, namely that the purchase of eight pieces of electro-optical targeting facilities has been announced in the course of the offer. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] The purchase contract provided for six. – This is a must request. [[Abg. Fauland: Reverse!]] There were also eight self-protection systems against air threat as a requirement. Only six are provided for in the purchase contract, and there is still a system that records IT-controlled steering weapons fired on fighter aircraft. At the time of the offer, it was also announced that four of the aircraft to be supplied should have carriers for educational devices – must-have a requirement. In the purchase contract this performance no longer seemed to be. And so this list could be continued at any time. Mr Federal Minister, if you demand a serious debate from us, I will tell you, as a lawyer, what you normally experience in court: Whoever claims must prove! [[Abg. Scheibner: But this applies to you too!]] [[Abg. Hornek: Where is the white one?]] They say, in flowering words, how wonderfully this take-off takes place, how transparent everything is, and forget to present the contract. I'll tell you: Whoever negotiates a good contract, as at the time Bruno Kreisky the state contract, can stand before the world public and say on the balcony: [[Violent cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] That's a good deal! [[The speaker lifts up some papers with both hands.]] Whoever negotiates a bad one must praise him like an advertising broadcast by EADS and present himself before and hide him. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17256	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17277	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear specialists in the matter of airspace surveillance! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You look in the right direction!]] My predecessor is one of the real experts in airspace surveillance and their need. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You recognized it, Mr. Colleague!]] The Hohe Haus is enthusiastic about your statements. [[Renewal hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, I'm sorry about the opposition, the Greens, the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Steibl: Bravo!]] Now they have tried so hard, the strategy was designed in such a way that first one doubts airspace surveillance at all. Some have not yet understood it, for example herbs. But there are some who have now understood it. You doubt. You did not get through with this because you have seen the airspace – Mr Kogler, so far as you are – you cannot necessarily be left unobserved, uncontrolled. This has gone beyond that, so next step: Scandalize! We need to scandalize the whole story! - The prosecutor was turned on. The ad has been returned because there is nothing incriminating. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Because the direction of ministers...!]] – Puswald, watch out, because you really don't understand! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You have no idea! You're talking about something you don't know!]] Results of the first Court of Auditors report: We have no indication of gift acceptance – “machinations” it’s called – inconsistencies or shortcomings. Again. Then came the next Court of Auditors report, where it was about buying only 18 aircraft instead of 24 planes. One says that's far too little, the next say that's way too much. We have reduced the number for various reasons, not least because of the flood and the available resources in our state. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] To this end, the Court of Auditors has told us that the reduction is permissible and that no best bidder collapse is associated with it. And the last strategy was now: If all this is not done, we must tell the people that this Court of Auditors is no longer responsible for the examination, we do not believe it anymore. – Originally, you said: The Court of Auditors has the highest competence, our Court of Auditors are those in charge of Parliament, and we can rely on them. Thank you many times for your commitment, ladies and gentlemen in the Court of Auditors! - That's how you all talked to each other! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Neudeck.]] And now it doesn't fit you into the stuff anymore and you say, No, we do not take note that the understanding of the Treaty is not allowed to be kept secret here, and therefore it is absolutely necessary to control it itself, because Puswald understands it better than the Court of Auditors! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: I don't know, Mr. Colleague! I don't know!]] Puswald is the one sent by the Socialists, and this is now the Chief Auditor instead of the Court of Auditors. God protect Austria, I would have said soon, but I'm not saying it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Eurofighters are cost-effective, as the Court of Auditors says. The Eurofighters will always fly. The Federal Minister says he's not going back, he takes responsibility. The Eurofighters fly by day and night, Puswald, whether it's hot or cold – you don't know yet – and will protect our country. This government and the Austrian People's Party cannot be taken into account in terms of security.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17416	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17437	Ladies and gentlemen! I have already benefited a lot from this debate. Mr Murauer tells us that the Eurofighters will always fly. Mr Gahr says that we meet the requirements of the present and future. – With such a non-futureist, but actually completely out of the role of the government party that says it will fit, even in the future, it will fly everything, even in the future, the Eurofighter is immortal, with this basic attitude, Mr Murauer and Mr. Gahr, you will naturally survive all constellations – only if the Republic does so well, I dare to doubt. [[Abg. Murauer: Only the Greens not!]] Let's go to the Minister of Defence. That wasn't much better either, Mr. Minister of Defense! What did you try to argue with us? You said: 250 000 viewers at the AirPower cannot be mistaken. They were thrilled by the Eurofighter. - That's an argument? An argument for Parliament and for the procurement process? Second argument of you was: We need the Eurofighter for sporting events. – This is an argument for the Eurofighter? As Minister of Defense, you will have the kindness to argue primarily with us in military terms, and you have tried to do so in the third argument. You said: The Eurofighter – which has proved Le Bourget – flies from Paris to Singapore. - Exciting. I would just like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, a Eurofighter who can fly from Paris to Singapore, is this really the airspace surveillance device that the Republic needs? [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Sure!]] And if you say, Minister of Defense, that we can configure this Eurofighter so that it is not primarily used as a fighter pilot, but for airspace surveillance, then I tell you, you can't configure it so that it can only fly shorter distances. It is designed on long distances and thus shows that the Eurofighter – and that was the initial criticism – was and is a product of the Cold War. [[Abg. Neudeck: Maybe the AUA will take it instead of the Airbus!]] You won't be able to discuss that even if you're making some rockets out of it. These were your arguments for the simple audience, as you imagine: 250 000 viewers cannot be mistaken!, understandable level. But what I think is shocking, Mr Federal Minister, is that you use a good part of your speaking time to explain to us that you are committed to the Parliament to the silence of office. In principle, Mr Federal Minister, I really think this is scandalous. You know just as well as I and everyone inside, Article 20 para. 3 B-VG regulates the silence of office. Yes, but you have the right to be silent only in military matters. They can cover all those contractual clauses relating to military interests. But that was not our primary interest. We wanted to understand the purchase process and know what terms of the contract are contained in it. And here you cannot tell me, Federal Minister, that it is of military importance that we should not know what price the Republic pays, under what conditions you can get out of the treaty, whether you are allowed at all, yes or no, and what conditions are associated with it. But this has absolutely nothing to do with your commitment to Parliament! They call on an official silence that exists only in a part and rightly where it concerns military matters. Yeah, but they're not tangled! [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't know that if you don't know the contract!]] Article 20(1) 3 B-VG says: ‘The period of office shall not apply to officials appointed by a general representative body to that representative body if he expressly requests such information.’ And you, Mr Federal Minister, go here and say, with reference to the Constitution, that you must not. - That's not true! Mr Federal Minister, if we allow such practices to enter this Parliament, that a minister should not even report what he has purchased under what conditions he has bought, and we can give up any control in this Parliament. On this one point, Mr Federal Minister, I cannot entirely right my colleague Werner Kogler. It was not easy in the past to move the majority of the government in this house to control, but it was a little better. But to that extent the government parties did not even go in times of the great coalition that they refused the load of information persons that invited persons had refused to provide information, as you have now done, Minister of State. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] They haven't gone that far. In retrospect, you have always written a report in which you gave the Sanctuary. I would also like to mention the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. At the Causa “World Vision” you gave the Sanctuary, you said that it was all right. Even in the Causa “Euroteam” you were more or less of the opinion that it has largely fit everything. So far you've agreed. But so far as you have denied the opposition the information rights that you are going here, like the Federal Minister, and referring to the silence of office, you are refusing to contact Parliament and saying that those who do not exist in this area, we have not really been so far. That is the outrage of parliamentary control, and you bear the responsibility for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17538	Mr Puswald spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions: first of all, the corrective situation, then the corrected one, and all this in 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17563	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear Minister! High house! Mr Murauer said that the SPÖ has turned the Puswald off as the chief examiner. – This claim is false! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not an actual correction!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is true that the SPÖ did not stop the pus forest, even as the top tester. [[Abg. Neudeck: Because you can't stop the Puswald!]] For the SPÖ, the Court of Auditors and the estimated President are...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17616	Mr President, I do not think I have to tell you that this was not an actual correction. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That was an actual correction! I haven't been turned off by the party!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17687	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to distance myself from a statement made by my Salzburg colleague, Fauland. He compared the speech of my colleague Herb with the Löwinger stage. As Wiener I have to find out, that didn't deserve the Löwinger stage. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Collaborative herbs operate here in the Hohen House as well as in the Committee: no content, campaign pure and self-representation. And that seems to be extended now by the match Puswald – herbs, because after Mr. Murauer has said that the upper controller is the Puswald, the herbs have become equally nervous and have sent the Puswald out to an actual correction: He's not put off for it. – I take note of the fact that this was not an actual correction, Madam President. If you do this in the group, perhaps he will learn it once! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are criticisms, which makes sense in such a procurement, and we are also referring to this criticism of the Court of Auditors. You can discuss this. Let's discuss it, but let's not scan it! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – I don’t need the Eurofighter, I’m not a pilot, I wouldn’t fit in, colleague. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The SPÖ now has a very great tactic and says: opponise and cash! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: We are not the FPÖ!]] The funding is always so scandalized by the Greens and the SPÖ, I thought that there was raiffeisen, first or any other in this direction at work. No, I've heard in the committee, it's the PSK that the BAWAG hears, and the union naturally cashes. If you are saying that this is a profitable financing, then it can be assumed that the trade union has a great deal to do with it. So, get up and cash. – So far to your criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: claim and prove, dear colleague Neudeck!]] It is true that there were, of course, difficulties in the counter operations in the start-up phase. I remember last year, they were not so pleasant reports that we heard there. Because companies said they didn't know they were on the list, then they suddenly knew it because the supplier was. All this was not good, says the Court of Auditors' report inside. It is only then that the Court of Auditors has examined, but now we are examining the Court of Auditors, which is in a certain way – that has already been said by a previous speaker – a withdrawal from the credibility of the Court of Auditors, and we are not playing with it. You cannot praise the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, the staff and officials there – I am still with you when you praise them – but then, if you cannot see something like this contract, I will request an audit by the Court of Auditors. Although you do not know this contract, interpret it as you interpret it. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: I don't need to interpret him at all, the Federal Minister has exposed himself!]] I want to hear what you'd say only if you knew the contract. You're talking about things in this contract and you don't know him at all. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] But, of course, you said a lot about the contract. You also said that Kreisky negotiated and showed the state agreement. That wasn't Kreisky, that was Figl! This is perhaps in your history book of the young generation or as that means inside, but in the Austrian history books it is, I think, still the Figl that stands on the balcony, and not the Kreisky. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You have to look at the pictures more closely, Mr. Colleague! There you can see who's on the balcony!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are opposition representatives who liked the flu so well in the air show you mentioned until they came up with it that it was the Eurofighter they saw, because after a short time the flu was no longer flown because it could not fly. So as long as they believed it was the flu, the pilot was fine. And it is with you at the Court of Auditors. You asked the public for a secret contract that you wanted to see. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's not true! We have offered absolute silence!]] This is a contradiction: I want to see a secret contract and then I want to teach the public. We have not allowed this to happen to you with our majority, my colleague, herbs. But after one or one and a half hours it has become clear to me... [[Abg. Dr. Herbs holds a document with the image of Jörg Haider to the speaker.]] Why are you showing me the Jörg Haider? [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The quotations from Haider to the whole...!]] – You have already told them out here, so they will... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Yeah, but everything's set. One can change one's mind once the courts do. But, my colleague, I'd rather expose you. You have made a request to the public. We didn't give you that. After two hours, you left. Now I know why you wanted to go to the public: They wanted to sit in the "Switzerland House", do press services and see what we were working on in the Court of Auditors. That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17825	The next item is the speech by Mr Mag. Grasser. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e17847	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Members of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Some remarks from the point of view of the financial unit. First of all, I would like to say that we were very concerned that this procurement process had been very meticulously, very carefully examined by the Court of Auditors. We now have three audit reports which have been submitted to Parliament. I also say that it was a big concern to me that there were these exams, because there was a lot of criticism because we worked here in many discussions with even more intellects. It was therefore important for us to see what the test body of the Republic says about this procurement process. When I look at the three reports, my interpretation is that it is a very essential point that the Eurofighter has been properly identified as the best bidder. And then I also think that you are quite careful about the... [[Abg. May. Kogler: The formulation is wrong! It's "appropriate" here!]] – I would like to read it to you, because this is an important point to address. The second important point is: What is it like in the financial section, in the commercial part, in the business sector? From my point of view, the interpretation here is quite clear that there has been a good negotiating position here. The areas where criticism has been practised, where suggestions have been voiced, I would also like to say, where proposals are made, have we considered in detail, no question. We discussed this in the ministry. We took this seriously and took it seriously and tried to evaluate it accordingly. Of course, we want to learn from it and make it better in the future. This is no question at all, because the Court of Auditors' reports are here, and the proposals and suggestions made therein should be implemented as best as possible in the interests of taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen! If – and I hope you believe this – one makes such a procurement, knowing that there is a very dubious, polar political debate, then it is certainly clear that it is a very big concern to all the competent ministers of the Federal Government to act as professionally as possible, to act as transparently as possible, to make no mistakes or as few mistakes as possible. If you look at these three Court of Auditors reports, you have to ask: Where are we actually compared? Where do we stand when looking at other procurements? I have made the effort to look through the Court of Auditors' report on the procurement of the Dragons, which came out in 1988. I don't know how he's still present with you in front of the spiritual eye. You know, the background was the decision of the then Federal Chancellor Fred Sinowatz, who was Chairman of the Council of State Defense on 26 June. In March 1985 the proposal for the procurement of the Dragons and therefore of interceptors made for the protection of the airspace. That was proposed by a Social Democratic Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I should probably have bothered myself and read the parliamentary debate on this, but for me it was already a special realization that the Court of Auditors had found: Best bidder was the Lightning at the time. Best bidder wasn't the Dragons at the time! And the Court of Auditors has found that the Federal Government was at the time opposed to the decision of the Assessment Commission, which said that it was necessary to take the Lightning. The Federal Government has decided against the best bidder Lightning and the Dragons. It has done this, although it has been known that according to the Court of Auditors, the total cost of the Draken system was 651 million schilling higher than that of the Lightning system. I asked myself: What would an opposition critique be if a federal government had dared to decide against an evaluation commission that has determined that the Eurofighter is best bidder? – But that happened then, ladies and gentlemen! I also ask that we see this clearly... – The counter-businesses are dramatically higher today than they were at the time, Mr Deputies! [[Abg. Faul: Counter-acts...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You don't want any at all...!]] You know that the counter-businesses had somewhere at that time the amount of 100, 120 percent, now they make up 200 percent of the purchase price, namely 4 billion €! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is, one can see here that we have obviously done much better, more prudent and more cautious. [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] – Read the report! It's in there. At the time, for example, the Court of Auditors stated that the protocols were missing for the decisive meetings – they did not exist at the time! – that the attendance lists are missing, that it is not apparent which persons have made what decisions at official level. – That means the documentation was not available at the time! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: We don't even know who signed the contract!]] With us is for You can understand the entire documentation in detail quantity frames, point value models and so on! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's not true!]] I'm just saying, That was not the case back then, of course. I believe that this is an important point for a transparent and correct procedure. Read what was then said to the commercial part! For example, one has transferred to Schilling and has not taken into account the foreign currency risk of the Swedish krone. The Court of Auditors report stated that it was not possible to avoid a savings of 135 million schilling, because one did not take into account a foreseeable development in the text of the Treaty. – That throws its own light on the procurement at that time! Furthermore, in this Court of Auditors report, it can be read that the down payment has obviously been increased from 5 per cent to 10 per cent without any particular pressure, and that is why another 40 million schilling has been purchased as a disadvantage to the taxpayer. If I read the current Court of Auditors report today and the Court of Auditors says that it has succeeded in negotiating the purchase price from €2.8 billion to €1.959 billion, i.e. €843 million through reductions in performance, but also through commercial skill in the negotiations, I must say: Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that this was really a significant result in the commercial negotiations that we succeeded together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another important point. There have been only a few arguments today. I should also like to say the following: Last week, when I came to the Court of Auditors Committee, I didn't know, or just before, that the opposition had been withdrawn. I would have liked – I can see this really valueless – to be able to discuss in detail, objectively, deeply and in detail in the Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You need a contract for this!]] I would particularly like it to be because Members of the opposition have made a lot of submissions to me in the context of mistrust and urgent questions. Then you sit in the committee, take your time from 7 p.m. to 22.30 p.m., and the opposition is not there to lead this in-depth debate on the matter in the argument. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: This is a...!]] I must tell you that I was disappointed because I believe that the Committee is not the forum for political activism, but should be discussed in the matter of content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You can't treat the opposition like that and then...!]] You, Mr Kogler, are still here today and once again claim – I know you otherwise on some issues as a material and serious interlocutor – that the type decision has been influenced by the choice of the financing variant on the part of the Ministry of Finance. First of all, I can read to you about this. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] I read this, page 16 of the Court of Auditors' report, Mr Puswald. And that was also the central argument of Mr Pilz that we chose the 18 half-yearly rate variant in the Ministry of Finance and that is why the Eurofighter came out of the decision. The Court of Auditors, in its current report on page 16 – I quote – writes: "As a result, the offer of Eurofighter Jachtflugzeug GmbH would have been best bidder not only for the payment variant of 18 half-years, as the best bidder investigation had resulted, but also for the variant with 10 half-year-rates. Only with the payment variant,Payment for delivery’ would the product of SAAB (...) best bidder have been. Therefore, under the above conditions, no beekeepers would have fallen in favour of SAAB’s offer for the payment variant at 18 half-yearly rates.’ That is, the message of the Court of Auditors is: The best bidder Eurofighter is also available at 10 half-years. The only argument, Mr Kogler, that you still have, because everyone else has come together, is the cash payment of such a business. I can tell you the following: The Eurofighter has a lifetime of 30 years. I can make comparisons because your argument was: only at 18 half-yearly rates. The purchase of 112 Ulan combat tanks has been financed by €292.14 million over seven years of interest payment. And for the Eurofighters with a purchase price of €1,959 billion, do you think that there would have been 10 half-yearly rates or a cash payment looser and the Minister of Finance would have chosen the 18-half-yearly rate variant to influence the type of decision here?- Oh, my God! - That's inconceivable! Or: Nine Black Hawk transport helicopters were purchased by € 203 million, which is about one tenth of the purchase price of the Eurofighters, distributed over seven annual rates, i.e. 14 half-yearly rates. Our objective is perfectly clear and comprehensible. What is the decision-making principle for a Ministry of Finance in this situation? – First of all: It's not supposed to be a financial debt. For the purposes of federal budgetary law, a financial debt arises when over a period of ten years is financed. That is why it was clear to us from the beginning, it must be shorter than ten years, but it will be just under ten years. Why? – Because, in terms of budgetary feasibility, we logically need a distribution over several years. If we distribute 200 million € businesses over seven years, then it is logical that we distribute almost 2 billion € businesses over nine years! If you look at the period during which infrastructure operations are financed with what duration of use, then nothing remains of your argument, but it is quite clear that you have rightly chosen the 18 half-yearly rate variant here. But it was also important to us to see how the offers of the companies are at ten half-yearly rates and at a cash purchase, so you know: What are the financing conditions? Then you can also conduct the business negotiations accordingly. It's just important to me to say: In my view, this central argument you have put forward has completely collapsed from this third Court of Auditors report. Hiemit has been shown to have made a clear decision for the best bidder, both from a commercial and military point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It has been said several times – and wrongfully too – that this is the biggest procurement in the history of the Second Republic and the largest investment ever. I mean, that's a little bit of a fight for Emperor Bart now, but I also ask here for the seriousness of the argument. You see, on the one hand, we make a one-time investment of €1,959 billion – a lot of money, no question at all! – but on the other hand, it is clear that we are going to the Austrian Federal Railways every year – every year, every year! – to invest in a total of €4.4 billion. This shows a little the dimension: once 1.959 billion compared to every year 4.4 billion! [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: That's not true at all! Liability framework!]] Look You will be looking at infrastructure projects: Brenner Base Tunnel: more than €5 billion! Look You can reach the coral railway with €3.8 billion! [[Abg. Eder: That's nonsense!]] A wealth of projects, road financing, rail financing, where it is very clearly relativized what dimension this project has. [[Abg. Eder: Minister of Finance, stay serious!]] If you are already in a serious situation, I can and do not want to spare you – because in many debates and mistrusts I have been confronted with some arguments from you – I also ask: What's left of all your arguments? In 2002, I was accused by the S & D party concerning interception hunters that Federal Minister Grasser would be rewarded for the fighter plane decision. – If you get blamed as a minister, you can't let that happen, but you have to sit down accordingly! I can also add: At the time, the Social Democratic Party was obliged by the State Criminal Court in Vienna to pay compensation, to publish judgment and to replace all costs and accordingly sentenced for this statement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If Mr Pilz is missing today, this is a little symptomatic of the debate – ah, he has just come. You are at the right time, Mr. Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Yes, at the right time!]] At the right time. In 2003, Mr. Peter Pilz accused me of being pushed and said that there was evidence of this too. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: You're also a slider!]] Mr Pilz, Member of the European Parliament, was sentenced to these claims by the National Criminal Court in 2003. You, Mr Pilz, were sentenced to payment of compensation, to the publication of judgment and to reimbursement of costs. They were also sentenced by civil courts in a procedure before the Vienna Commercial Court in 2004 to refrain from making such statements and no longer to repeat them to the public. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Look, look!]] So much, just to put on the table with what seriousness you are having such a debate. I would like to have an objective debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say once again: Firstly, we note the criticism of the Court of Auditors. We take them seriously, of course, we want to implement them in future procurement. Secondly, as the Minister of Defence rightly said and explained, we are concerned with the security of our country. And this security does not end on the ground, but it is also a comprehensive security with regard to the airspace of our country. We owe it to the population. Third point: The Federal Government has opted for the best bidder – commercial and military. This has been expressed accordingly by the Court of Auditors. I think we can say we've been good at negotiating. If the Court of Auditors states in its report that we have been able to reduce the purchase price by €843 million, and if you still know that Martin Bartenstein has succeeded in agreeing to counter transactions of €4 billion, this will also be a significant contribution to growth and employment in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18126	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18147	Madam President. Mr. Ministers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! I remember when Mr. Finanzminister Grasser spoke about the fact that there is no need to buy combat aircraft and that he will resist this purchase with all his personal power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser) So much to your seriosity!]] Today he has shown us that he can prepare himself very intensively and, above all, has a lot of people who read in many reports. But the crucial point is: The Court of Auditors' report on airspace surveillance aircraft is probably one that has been discussed the longest and very intensively – not only from the number of hours, but also from the intensity of the persons involved. In this procurement process, in which the transparency of this procurement and the errors in other procurements are always highlighted only by the government bank, but are never comprehensible to the people who have opposed this purchase with more than 500 000 signatures, this is also not easy for the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I would like to reject this ridiculous-making and the mocking mention of the behaviour of members of the opposition here in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – You notice your bad conscience when you're so upset. That's why it was very important that I say that. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] We wanted to get information at the last meeting on who actually signed the contract, who was responsible for it. The Court of Auditors report states that on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Defense were also involved in very many discussions in the decision-making process and that on the other hand, the price negotiations were only very poorly documented by the Ministry of Finance. Only the fact that today's Finance Minister Grasser says that these reports are so important and valuable to him that they will be learned from them shows, ladies and gentlemen, that it is too little if blue-eyed words are made here. Mr Gahr said that 104 Austrian companies are now very great at the counter-businesses. We have found at one meeting or have to hear that many of these companies have already worked in these areas before and that you are simply making changes. If the Minister of Defence tells us today that the safety of this aircraft is guaranteed, because it has been tested on the ground at minus 32 degrees in Sweden, I have a question, Minister of Defence: Airplanes should not be tested on the ground. And if you say that the Eurofighter can take the route from Great Britain to Singapore, back and forth, then you can see that you are very easily attached to this procurement process and have no transparency.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18220	Mrs Stadler is speaking next time. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18241	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lapp, this Court of Auditors report, even if you wish to have it different, makes it quite clear that all the unmistakable calls from you, from the opposition to the procurement process, have been dealt with in accordance with the principles of effectiveness, economy and economy. [[Abg. May. Lap: You still have to prove that!]] Mrs Lapp, as a member of the Court of Auditors Committee, I am all the more surprised that you, as a member of the Court of Auditors, are arguing with unmistakable arguments. Because everyone who is sure knows that the surveillance of the airspace is one of the key tasks of a government and does not abandon it from any state in the world. The Dragons, which have been in use since 1958 in Sweden and since 1988 in Austria, have reached the end of their useful period and are already in existence. With the procurement of 18 Euro fighters, the Republic acquires one of the most modern and best jets in the world – not only on the ground but also in the air. [[Call:The most expensive]] A comparison with the Dragons can actually be difficult to produce, but one could say that if Draken means 100 percent security, so Eurofighter means 500 percent security. And, my dear colleague, that's enough for me. Ladies and gentlemen! With the Austrian equipment of the 18 airspace surveillance aircraft, all national tasks will be fulfilled. Adjustment and extension options are designed to cover possible developments in the security situation. Thus, safety in the airspace and thus the safety of people in our country will be ensured through a future-oriented project.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18288	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18310	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The issue of Eurofighter will certainly continue to concern us for months if not years, on the one hand because we will not rest, which will partly reveal dubious transactions when purchasing, and on the other hand, because, above all, coming governments, who will no longer belong to you, and above all, the German army will be very hard on these financial burdens. [[Abg. Neudeck: 40 years!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What do you mean by that?]] We Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, have always been in favour of military national defence, but for one that is in line with the financial possibilities of Austria and the needs of its political situation. In our opinion, the most expensive and largest procurement action of the Second Republic leaves a lot of questions open, but it has also left open questions for the Court of Auditors. In some cases, the Court of Auditors, to be read in the report, did not receive information from the Ministries, in part, refused opinions. It was talked about with must- and target criteria, as well as with the financing variant, until a certain bidder could come to the train. These are very worrying events which require further information from the Court of Auditors' point of view. Why, for example, has – and this question has not really been answered to this day, and we will put it even more often until an answer comes – been eliminated from the world's most successful and best tried-out catcher aircraft F-16? [[Abg. Fauland: Because she needs 25 minutes...!]] Why is the F-16 too bad for Austria if it is successfully operating in several European countries and it will be at least 20 years? – This is the information of high-level military. – Why was the very interesting and cost-effective leasing variant of this F-16 rejected? [[Abg. Scheibner: Which F-16 do you think? What do you mean?]] The pan-European security policy will be reorganised in the near future. A reasonable transitional solution would have been ever cheaper and more forward-looking than the sinteur purchase of these fighter jets. Why, for example, did you not insist, Mr Minister, on the air test promised by EADS before the conclusion of a contract? Why buy You expensive devices without knowing if they're working at all? [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Colleague. What do you think F-16 is?]] Are the actual flight-specific operating costs already recoverable and known to this day? – On multiple requests from us in the Court of Auditors, we have not received a reply to this up to this day. To date, no reliable values of the individual technical components are still available. But we as the Republic have signed the treaty and will have to do all that. Mr Platter, you have rejected a detailed test of the aircraft in Austria before signing the contract – also to be read in the Court of Auditors Report. The question is, why? – Quite simply: because it doesn't work at all. [[Abg. Fauland: Please go! Such a fool!]] Questions on questions, ladies and gentlemen. They are also not ready – and this has been carried out several times – to allow us to understand the Eurofighter Treaty or to present it to us. They have regularly rejected any persons who could have been very likely to help bring more light into the dark of this procurement action. They have not responded to many of our wishes and questions, but have served us relatively salopp in many areas. We will not give you any support for such transactions at all! We will continue to work on the investigation. We will discover the nebulous flows of money and inform the population of the largest debt and tax waste action of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18413	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18434	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! We have had a lot of debates. At least in this respect, I am right to say that we have had many debates on the interception hunters and on this project. I notice that from the sides of the opposition you have a little bit of dynamics. The real experts are no longer at all talking and in part are no longer in the hall: those who recognize themselves in security policy, in the defence of the state. At least we have managed to have Mr Pilz come back to us for at least a short while, though a little late. Welcome! I hope he'll talk. Perhaps he'll at least make it possible to get a little annoyed by some argument. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] - Yes, that's coming, Mr. Herb. The fact that you are the first speaker in such a debate also shows what quality standards your group sets on this issue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You're coming later today!]] At least once we would have wanted a new argument! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You can...!]] You know, I'd like to take part in these debates, but at least a new argument that needs to be considered. Mr Gaál! Thank God! At least an expert is sitting in the right place in this debate, I would say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] He might have made one more argument! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But no new argument! And we'll give you the answers again, and you'll say again next time: We never get an answer! – Mr colleague, at sporting events! [[Abg. Gradwelt: At the Olympic Games in Salzburg...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You are not able to answer!]] You'll find it so ridiculous. It's just a fact. It is only a segment of the airspace surveillance task that there will be no major events of an international nature in the future, where there is no need for active airspace surveillance and monitoring for the award of contracts. It's just a fact. Your mayors know it, you know it too, just say it She's holding something completely different again. Then when the Draken acquisition comes back to the word, you say: That was a different security situation at the time and that was quite different and the Kreisky did... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – Of course, it was a different security situation, only, Mr Commissioner – Mr Gaál will perhaps be able to confirm this to you –: With regard to the security situation of the time when the only possible scenario of an armed conflict of the Third World War would have been when the Warsaw Pact with its air armada against NATO with its potentials, you say it was the right decision to acquire 24 Dragons from the 1960s, equipped with a ship cannon. – I leave it to your security-political competence to claim that way. Do you know what the concept was in truth at the time? – It was the concept to find a transitional solution to come to an oversonic plane. Together with the procurement for the Draken, an aircraft of the latest generation was designed. It has been said that one skips a generation to reach the latest generation of interceptors and airspace surveillance aircraft in the mid-1990s. It was not the safety policy framework that was the reason for the purchase of Dragons, but it was said: We have a deficit, we cannot do this now a hundred percent, but, as it were, we are taking up training in the oversonic area and in the mid-1990s we are going to get into the latest concept. [[Abg. Neudeck: Security Deficit! The SPÖ...!]] In my opinion, we are ten years too late that in 2007 these, already in the mid-1980s, decided state-of-the-art aircraft of this kind – and the Eurofighter is the state-of-the-art aircraft currently in existence – are available to the Austrian federal army. Then my previous speaker – I am always happy about such competent contributions – says: Yeah, the F-16, the best plane! – I am surprised that we now suddenly stand up for the Americans. That's where I wonder: What is the F-16 project, Mr. Colleague? Is he still there? - Yeah, up there. He's a little distracted; that's all right. Which F-16 project does he think would have been so great and interesting? [[Abg. Gaál: The Minister of Finance has proposed it!]] That's right! You disagree with the premise that the Minister of Finance has always been only for the Eurofighter. He said the cheapest solution is used equipment. I said at the time – and for that I am –: That would be a transitional solution again! [[Abg. Gaál: He is the most expensive crasher!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You ordered something that is not delivered!]] We want to have a modern device available that guarantees airspace surveillance in Austria for over 30 or 40 years. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true at all!]] Thank God we have decided on this concept, ladies and gentlemen. F-16 devices needed to purchase that had been removed somewhere in the desert of Nevada, and then they would be expensive and long-term upswings, would be really pointless. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: They're at least flightable!]] The fact that the Americans did not offer Austria the most modern version of the new F-16 because we are not NATO members is another story. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You want to join NATO?]] So we could argue about all things, and we would like to continue to exchange all the arguments. A journalist once told me before the decision was made: Mr Minister, we are all waiting for your decision very urgently, and I say to you: From the time the decision is made, we will go to the other providers and research anywhere else to get arguments as to why this decision, no matter how it may have been, has been the wrong one! All right, that's what you're entitled to as an opposition, as a matter of principle. However, please note that this procurement project has been reviewed by the Court of Auditors in three audit procedures, by the Public Prosecutor's Office and by internal control. The Court of Auditors said: This decision is correct and comprehensible, and only this type of decision! You said you would have liked to discuss with Spinka and all the possibilities. As far as I know, he said in committee: How would the decision have taken be otherwise decided by the Minister? What would you have said then? – And you know very well that the concern in the department and also my concern has been that the additional costs for this catcher have to be borne. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Go, Herbert!]] It was the Minister of Finance's guarantee – and this is also to be warned at any time – that, of course, all additional costs for the Eurofighter will be additional budgeted. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: So, Herbert! Go, please!]] If he's too little armed for you: wonderful. Let's talk about it! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: The Minister of Finance?]] Not the Minister of Finance! I don't know how he's armed. The Eurofighter, of course! If you are too few if we can also use them abroad, it would be wonderful and reasonable. It costs a little more money. Let's decide that together! But with these 18 Euro fighters – at least as long as the Saab 105 is still in service – airspace surveillance can be performed. Everything that goes beyond that will have to be discussed. [[Abg. Gaál: Where is the financing concept, Herbert?]] Mr Gaál, the financing concept is the task of the Minister of Finance. – Mr. Gaál, perhaps you will still come out, because you are one of the... – What, you can't say? - Then it was just a wrong call. [[Abg. Gaál: He has not said anything for years, the Lord!]] [[Abg. Gaál: I can't!]] [[Abg. Gaál: No!]] Well, I don't want to comment on that. At any rate, it is ensured that airspace monitoring – and it will become more and more important in the future – is presented with this Eurofighter for 30 to 40 years. It's all checked. You will continue to hold your debates. Wonderful! We will continue to discuss this with you, but you will find no indication that something has gone wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18737	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18759	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Scheibner pointed out the Minister of Finance's weapon, he just didn't say which one it was. I can do it here: It is the control screw, a feared instrument that he uses and uses all too often. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gahr was horrified at the fact that the Social Democrats and the Greens had left the last committee meeting under protest. I'm telling you quite honestly: We had to leave the session when we had to realize that it was pointless to continue to discuss because you were not willing to give us the information we would have liked. I remember: Some of the previous meetings have taken off the coalition. After 12 hours of effort to get you closer to our problems, you rewarded it. [[Abg. Neudeck: That was 13 hours!]] Mr Neudeck! Although they were there, they were more concerned about something else. You left us there without a comment. I can return this accusation to Mr Gahr. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, our concern is still the following: From today's point of view, we cannot prevent the purchase, that is not a question. We just want to see the purchase contract, and you refuse us. Why do we want to see the purchase contract? There are a few points. In the beginning it was said: Don't worry about the costs, an economic platform will cover all of this, and that doesn't burden the budget at all. – Well, today we know that there is no economic platform. We also heard from the Minister of Defence Scheibner that the flu would have been chosen to be the appropriate plane. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you hear that?]] [[Abg. Fauland: He was too old!]] – That was to be read, not a problem. At the same time, we have heard from the Minister of Finance that such planes are war toys, and we do not need them. – The result of this symbiosis was the Eurofighter. Our problem is the following: We are not able to see how this change could have happened in the short term. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, once the Dragons and Lightning are mentioned again, I can say: At the time, one has chosen the Dragons and has not tried to “turn” the offer in such a way – under quotation marks – that one should have said that this is the requirement that one should buy the Dragons. We were honest with Parliament. I wanted to stress that again. If the Federal Minister continues to wonder why we want to see the Treaty, I will say the following. There is a chairman of a coalition party, the BZÖ, who was threatened with body and life when he had posterted: I'll stop this Eurofighter buy. Ladies and gentlemen! We are worried about your coalition partner to be well-being, and you finally refuse to see! – I am also pleased that you see this, Mr Scheibner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. (Muhammad), We shall judge it to him. He'll be glad!]] Mr Federal Minister, you have repeatedly argued that the Social Democrats had agreed to an aircraft purchase during the coalition negotiations in 2000. I can say, with the addition of the budget. That means something else. That is to say, first put the financial budget in order, not put on the financial screw to bring in money, but then think of the defence if we can afford it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18853	The next speaker is Mr Schöls. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e18876	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister of State Defense! I hate it, but I have to correct you easily. You said in your comments about the Airpower: The Eurofighter is on a good course. – I want to correct this and say: Not only is the Eurofighter on a good course, but this federal government is on a good course and the defence policy of this federal government is on the right track! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because while we, ladies and gentlemen, are seriously discussing airspace surveillance issues here, use this discussion once again to blush away this serious question. Mr Puswald is hiding in a history falsification by trying to persuade us that Bruno Kreisky had negotiated the state agreement. [[Abg. Gradwelt: What was that now?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Puswald]] Mr. Lapp tells us that the Minister of Defense said the planes couldn't fly. All these things can't deceive you that it's not about you. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That's disappointing!]] You proved this again at the last meeting of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Gaál: Schools exaggerate!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I already understand that you may not really be concerned about monitoring the airspace during the Catholic day. I also understand that you may not be concerned about monitoring the airspace at large-scale sporting events. [[Abg. Gaál: Your time has expired!]] But today the threat scenario is no longer the war - as Mr. Herb said at the beginning of his speech - but the attack on the World Trade Center and other things. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Exactly! The Americans!]] Mr Pilz also has experience in the discussions of the last few days, where there are threats: That's not the states! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: The Federal Government!]] That is why we as the Republic have the responsibility to take responsibility for airspace monitoring. The Court of Auditors report showed: Unfortunately, I don't have so much time to do this to you, but you can read pages 15, 16, 42 and other of the report where decided is that you are wrong with your claims. Her behavior has again shown two things: This is not a matter for you, and it is something that has been shown in the Court of Auditors' discussion, which we have continued, in this Republic without you. Just watch out that doesn't even notice the voters at the next National Council election!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19004	The next speaker is Mr Faul. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19026	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! I would actually have liked to ask the Minister of Finance something quite personal. I would have liked to ask him what he would have done with an employee at the time as a manager of Magna, Mr Scheibner, whom he would have asked to make a best bidder offer for a company car, and the employee would have come and said: [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a small difference!]] Mr. Grasser, great, I got that! I don't know what's best, but in 18 months, we would have the type B! That would be great! - Do you know what he did? If Grasser hadn't thrown him out, Uncle Frank would have chased this employee with the wet slut and told him: You know what? I want to know a price! I want my net price! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And after this net price, we'll talk about financing. Mr. Federal Minister, you're here now. I just said if you had done this as a senior employee at Magna's company to order an employee to write a car, and he would have come with 18 half-year-olds, you would have chased him to the devil. This points out, Minister of State, that the net comparison of these two offers would have decided differently. That's where you can't defend the accusation that there's been muzzled. There's no such thing. Mr Federal Minister, you did not ask, you changed the target and must criteria afterwards. You have not taken this into account – and every car vendor would take this into account –: You didn't ask for the equipment, you didn't ask for the first flight capability. You didn't ask if the new model was even available. And you didn't record the delivery time, what every customer would have done! In reality, we also believe that you bought these 18 Eurofighters at the price of the 24 pieces. I'll show you why: At these purely cost, the costs of the transition aircraft will be €75 million. €200 million – Mr. Federal Minister, because you are talking so big about financing – you have put into the sand by making the interest payments later! And that's where you want to tell us what's funding?! - That's not quite right. Objectives cost € 8.4 million, self-protection costs € 44.6 million, the threat imagery costs again € 34 million, i.e. sums, sums, sums. And pilot training is not there at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fauland.]] Federal Minister! Germany has achieved great downfalls through skillful negotiation! This has not happened anymore because you got stuck in Austria at an early stage, and there is something behind it. The Germans bought the same Eurofighter by 25 million per piece cheaper than the Austrians. [[Abg. Fauland: Yes, they have developed him!]] That's really the fact. And to the counter-actions: Mr Bartenstein, this is really the biggest fairy tale book! This is part of a carnival newspaper, which you always present to us here and what counter-businesses should have been. That was almost everything started! I don't want to go into the shops with the universities and the lessons you offer us, that's really more than ridiculous. [[Abg. Scheibner: But no one laughs!]] Mr. Federal Minister, former Minister of Defense Scheibner, one thing you must also explain to us: the division “Fightplanes” – “Surveillance Planes”. Think of your spatula that you've made yourself: Suddenly, it was only the “surveillance. ” Mr Fauland has told us that they will roam all the Olympics, but only at an eerie height, so that they can't hear it. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council, if we need to guard everything as you understand it in your comical diction, then we will probably not be able to afford an Olympic and a Catholic day at €28 000 per hour of flight. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should stay when comparing with the car!]] The red card for your decision!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19129	Next came Mr Bartenstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19151	Madam President. My precious colleagues on the government bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The countermeasures have just been referred to briefly by Mr Faul: ‘Mortal tales’... [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That's all you can say!]] Yes, listen to me. I'm just saying a little more about it, and something about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] They have spoken of a “narrible book”, of “fashing”, of “more than laughing” – no one has laughed – and this cannot be allowed to happen. May I remind you that you, as a representative of the region, are probably informed that someone who once had a high and highest role in your party, also in the government, and who is also regarded today as the economic advisor of the party president, has announced to invest in the area you are supposed to represent or at least represent, in terms of deliveries to Airbus Industries. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that Airbus Industries is a subsidiary of EADS, as is Eurofighter, and that it belongs together, within the framework of the by far largest aerospace and corresponding technology group in Europe. When investment is made there – once again: from your closer political environment! – and hundreds of jobs are created on the basis of the fact that other subcontracts are expected, for example to the Airbus A 350, this has nothing to do with laziness or carnival, or with fairy tales, but with jobs in the Styria. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Even before the type decision...!]] We know for a longer time that you, honourable Member herbs, are relatively indifferent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grill:... against any positive development, Mr. Herbs!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about breaking the country, and you want to pull everything down, Mr. Herb. But that's not new. That's also known to your Styrian party members, and they've already gotten used to it, as well as us. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs:... don't say so...!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Yes, you can!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: You can say that, Lord Herbs, because that's true!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of counter-businesses, the large French newspaper “Le Monde” reported when we negotiated the counter-business agreement with a €4 billion offset volume: a “4 billion entry ticket into the European high-technology club”. I have had the opportunity to speak again with this journalist and lady a few days ago; she is still of this opinion. I mean, it was at least a remarkable negotiation result for my team to complete with a net acquisition of still significantly less than €2 billion then with €4 billion – that is 240 percent in relation to the net or 205 percent in relation to the gross purchase volume. There is little comparative... [[Abg. To the extent: Mr Minister, the words are spoken enough! Finally, let's follow actions!]] You too, Mr Deputies, should have in mind the interests of the Obersteiermark. There are, at least in part, also your voters – probably their number is declining – and they want counter-actions to be made. They want something to be done for the Styria, for the Obersteiermark in terms of counter-businesses, and they certainly do not understand expressions such as “narror book” and “fashing”. I'll tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When I read this at the time – “Enrolment ticket to the European high-technology club” – I felt that this is a future perspective, and it will not be easy to achieve it. I was optimistic that it would have succeeded in concluding contracts worth €4 billion over the entire 15 years; but it would have been hard to believe ladies and gentlemen, you would have told me that we will ultimately receive very significant and enjoyable supplies for the world's most modern passenger aircraft, namely for Airbus A 380. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That was done before, Minister! 14 years...!]] Talk to Mr Stephan! This is the managing director of Mr Androsch at FACC. Even so nervous hand movements don't help, Mr. Herbs, that's the bad conscience or your ignorance or a combination of both. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Read it!]] Mr Androsch, FACC and I, we know better! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I look forward to the audit of the Court of Auditors with great serenity and glad expectation, which will then be examined. But you know, the Airbus A 380 didn't exist in the past, he just finished his young flight. Of course, these € 700 million, which were completed by FACC for this and the next years, are largely additional business. In any case, it is only recognized what is above the average of the last few years. The counter-business platform, in which the Chamber of Labour is also represented, will examine this penetratingly, the proposals will be taken note of by us, and usually we also conclude on the basis of the recommendations of this platform, in which not only social partners but also other important Austrian stakeholders sit. But again: Airbus A 380, which sounded quite good already, about € 700 million was the contract volume. Then a few months ago, when MAN military trucks for the British Army were added, also on the basis of counter-businesses, a volume that is nominally even higher, but... [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: When we go abroad...!]] Has it been before? – What you do not know, honourable Members. [[Abg. Murauer: We don't believe Walter, gal!]] [[Abg. Shopf: It was completed before!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Not even himself he believes!]] If this is the only thing you think of it, then I am quite calm and optimistic that people will not follow you, but us. Because we have even more significant volumes here as the basis of the contract, but only a part of which will be Austrian value added, but still some 100 million €, which is already a beautiful thing. I can tell the House today that I see a total volume of counter-business – in the form of either counter-contracts or contracts that have already been concluded – that is beyond € 2 billion, not about half of those 15 years, but in fact one or two years after the decisions have been taken! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Gahr has worked out very well is: It is not only the big ones, the MANs and the FACCs, but also the middle cities in Tyrol, in Styria, in Lower Austria, even throughout Austria, which have completed. I can tell you that of the 87 companies – you are not interested either, Mr Herb, I know that, but I am telling you anyway – that of the 87 companies whose counterparts with Eurofighter and EADS we are for the first annual tranche to 30. In May 2003, 47 SMEs – medium-sized enterprises, Mr. Deputies, are stupid – and 40 others are usually larger. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs Browsees in a Brochure]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: How do you get it?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Bravo!]] And that at a recognized volume of 190 million €! This has already been done, these are fulfilled contracts, and that has already been a remarkable beginning. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I come very briefly to the criticisms expressed by the Court of Auditors. One of the criticisms is that the ponale does not correspond to the 10 percent written out. That is right, nothing to escape, except that you do not achieve all the goals in the negotiation process. However, it is recognised by the Court of Auditors that milestones are agreed on by the 5-percent-pönale volume. I assume, ladies and gentlemen, that a ponale will not really be sprinkling, because EADS is a highly serious, powerful company and, as I see it, will not be a subject of any ponale obligations from my present point of view. Second criticism of the Court of Auditors: We should have served the financial procuratorship. I am still in favour of the fact that, on the basis of the specificity and volume of the contract, we have taken external advice to the aid of some ten thousand euros. That's a lot of money, I know, but it's still manageable. However, I recognise that the relevant law even provides for the involvement of the financial procurator. Mr President of the Court of Auditors, we will keep it that way next time. With regard to transparency, it was probably the case that we were able to transfer the counter-business contract to the Court of Auditors – that is, it was not only with us to see it, but also with the Court of Auditors – but it was not possible to release the counter-business agreement on the whole of Eurofighter for publication. Probably because the counter-businesses are so attractive that Eurofighter does not want to deliver them to all possible other customers free home! But I assume, first of all, that the audit carried out by the objective Court of Auditors for Parliament within the meaning of ‘What the Court of Auditors says we believe that’ is very essential and, second, that the summary of the contract of conduct, which is published and accessible to you, actually also provides you with the material elements of the contract of contraa. In this way, although limited, transparency is required. High house! I'll get together. [[Abg. Grade: Limited or transparent? Both of them can't! What now?]] I believe that in this perspective – “4-billion ticket in the European high technology club” – Austria’s businesses can already bring more than I would have hoped for today. This could and should continue in this tone, and it is a very, very important part- and side-by-point of the Eurofighter military procurement project, for this country, for its businesses and, above all, for its jobs! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19438	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19460	Madam President. Estimated members of the government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! If in the last few weeks and months I have properly understood my colleagues' herbs, he doesn't want any interception hunters. Is that right, my colleague, herbs? – Ah, that’s interesting. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: At least no Eurofighters!]] It's obviously just the wrong guy. [[Abg. Gaál: That was always the position!]] But let's stick to your position, you fought the Eurofighters violently. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs:... Leasing Jets! Then we don't need Eurofighters!]] I think we should discuss this seriously: What consequences does it have when Mr. Herbs prevail? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – First, this has the consequence that the airspace is not monitored. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: We have leasing jets!]] Secondly, it is a consequence of the fact that we cannot manage the counter-businesses of 4 billion. Mr Herzegovina! You are almost the adjutant of Mr. Landeshuptrant Voves, the first adjutant. [[Abg. - Look, look!]] I assume that your position, that you are fighting the Eurofighters, also corresponds to a mandate from Mr. Voves. If the Eurofighters don't come, this has the consequence for the location Tentweg is that the site Tentweg is dead. It's closed, dear colleagues! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: A thousand jobs!]] [[Abg. Grill: More!]] [[Abg. Murauer: ( towards SPÖ) That's what you know!]] It is interesting that this demand comes from the SPÖ. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You want to get 720 highly qualified jobs away – and I have to blame you very specifically. [[Abg. Murauer: Na bravo!]] Don't get it, but get it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you what we want, so you can see the difference: We want the Eurofighter to come. We want all 18 Eurofighters to come to the tent road because this ensures that 200 employees of the existing 720 employees in the Fliegerhorst Tentweg are included. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This investment secures the tentway site for the next 30 years, in a technology field that we rarely find in reality. This is important for Styria so that we continue to maintain high economic growth and the high F&E ratio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19652	Next, Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19673	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You know for sure that the sentence: There you should simply study the texts of the contract more precisely!, by Federal Chancellor Schüssel. ==References== This year's debate on a urgent request from my group. It is the Treaty on the procurement of the Eurofighters that has been introduced, said and thus means the Treaty on the procurement of the Eurofighters. The whole thing can also be read in Parliament's Minutes, on page 27. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! I ask you: If German Chancellor Schüssel says you should take a look at the text of the contract and you should read in it, why then do you resist with your hands and feet that we can take insight into this treaty? . We from the Socialist Group and also the Greens are very interested not only in reading the Treaty but also in studying it. We also have a right to do so; this has already been discussed in detail here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you have a pure conscience and if you place so much importance on transparency, you will also be able to submit this contract to us. Ladies and gentlemen! I also find the following somewhat strange: If you look at the Committee's report, the official report to Parliament, you can read that the Committee decides unanimously to recommend to the National Council that the report be taken note of – without any reference being made in the text to the fact that the SPÖ and the Greens have been expelled from the Committee on the Court of Auditors because they have not been granted their democratic control right to consult the Eurofighter Treaty. In addition, I find it more than strange that if you read the issue of Parliamentary correspondence, you can actually think that it is an issue of the ÖVP club. In total, very many questions have remained open, which have not been answered by you, have not been answered satisfactorily. All those who have to stand up for the procurement of these Eurofighters, the taxpayers, do not receive sufficient answers either. However, I am sure that you, ladies and gentlemen, will receive the invoice from the government factions by autumn 2006 at the latest.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19718	The next item is the speech by the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19740	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned several times today that the Court of Auditors' third report is now on the agenda and that, with the period of the type-decision, it is on the second floor. ==References====External links== ==References== I would like to remind you that the first report was not dealt with in plenary because it had fallen due to the fact that a National Council election had taken place. This report concerned the preparation of the follow-up from 1993 to the binding tendering on 10 October. October 2001. The second report, which was discussed in detail in this plenary session, covered the period of binding supply collection on 10 October. ==References====External links== ==References== I would also like to point out – because it is important to be able to fully understand the Court of Auditors' recommendations in this report, which is under discussion today – that the successoring of the Draken had a very long history. It was true that a concept had already been adopted in September 1993 for the use of the Austrian federal army, and this concept was the basis for the use of the military and air forces. In 1997, the concept for the use of air forces was adopted as such, and on this basis the operational-tactic approach, a concept on which the procurement that is being discussed today, is based, a concept which also sets out the military performance requirements. We – the Court of Auditors – have already noted in 2001 that at that time the Federal Ministry of State Defense estimated the purchase costs of €1.8 billion to €3 billion, depending on the possibility of use or the equipment these airspace surveillance aircraft should have. We also pointed out that at the time there was no total cost representation and no financial coverage. In the further follow-up report, which has also been discussed here, we have noted that a budgetary ceiling should be provided for procurement in particular and that this financial framework should be accompanied by the corresponding performance descriptions. That's what happened on the 2nd. On July 1, 2002, when the binding type decision came into force, the price was set at €1,791 million – payment on delivery. This Council of Ministers' presentation did not include, for example, the expenditure on training and logistics, nor the price for the 18 half-yearly rates, as subsequently determined. Negotiations took place from July 2002 to September 2002. On the basis of the National Council election, the negotiations are only with the German government's fishing force on 28 October. ==References====External links== At that time, the purchase price was €2 802 million as a result of the negotiations that had been conducted in the meantime. This has led to what the Federal Minister has already mentioned that, after an amount limitation in March 2003, a maximum amount had been set for the procurement, this amount had to be reduced in post-negotiations to the maximum amount of € 2 billion. This has not only led to a reduction in the number of items from 24 to 18 but has also reduced system components to a value of € 204 million. Military requirements of €80 million, some of which still had to be presented in response to the call for tenders, were also reduced. In addition, commercial contractual negotiations were also conducted, which were presented by the Federal Minister for Finance, for example, which included a renunciation, a cover clause, a limit on liability and also contributed to a reduction in the purchase price by € 129 million. Here is the point, and that has already been mentioned by the Federal Minister for Defence, that further procurement needs to be taken into account in the future, that in the event of performance reduction, attention should be paid to whether, at all events, a bidder falls due to these reductions. Thus, the Court of Auditors has employed and carried out these calculations by establishing the quantity structure in accordance with the contract of purchase, in accordance with the offer documents, based on the offer prices, the scope of the services and the specified target value points, and has come to the conclusion that there has been no bidder collapse. In order not to be in trouble in the future, calculations should at least be made in good time on this point in order not to make any compensation or to have to comply with other obligations. In order to reduce the scope of delivery and the number of airspace surveillance aircraft, military requirements have naturally been withdrawn. This has also been mentioned in several debates. The self-protection systems were reduced, the electro-optical devices, which can detect goals at night or in bad weather. The number of annual flight hours has been reduced, pilot equipment reduced and the number of operating sites reduced. In addition – I have already mentioned criteria – there have also been no purchase of educational equipment or additional tanks. This has also led to the fact that the Federal Ministry of State Defense has probably observed, with reference to the 1997 operational-tactical concept, that the requirements are no longer fully guaranteed: that, as originally foreseen, there is no guarantee that airspace security is improved in relation to the Dragon, but only in approaches and that international operations with regard to the lack of protection functionality would not be advisable or reasonable. The Court of Auditors has therefore adopted or recommended that the military-strategic requirements be re-evaluated with regard to the Security and Defence Doctors, which have established that continuous airspace surveillance should take place, or that airspace security should take place in the event of an event, and that this examination process also leads to the submission of an appropriate evaluation approach. In this context, I would like to mention positively, from the Court of Auditors' point of view, that this evaluation has now taken place, that a new tactical-operative approach has also been drawn up with regard to the new threat scenarios and that an appropriate presentation has been allocated to the Court of Auditors. In connection with the statements made by the Federal Minister for Finance, I would like to say briefly: He pointed out that, particularly in the commercial sector, it was necessary to reduce the price as part of the design of the financial part. I already mentioned it: This concerns the 126 million €, caused by the remission, by the cover clause and by the maximum liability limit. The reluctance to do so causes the financing process to be detached from the actual procurement process. It has been established that the mandatory and unlimited payment obligation of the Republic of Austria will continue to exist in the event of a legal cancellation of the Treaty for whatever reason. This means in this case, that the renunciation has transferred the risk of fulfilment from Eurofighter to the Republic of Austria, i.e. that the Republic of Austria can be held responsible for the lack of fulfillment or non-fulfilment. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: tip! A great performance!]] This also means that, in the case of refusal of performance or non-contractual performance, the purchase price rates must continue to be paid, but the Republic of Austria of Austria of course has the opportunity to recover any damage caused by Eurofighter with damages or enrichment claims. As far as the liability limit is concerned, the Court of Auditors did not criticise the establishment of such a limit. We have only pointed out that the price discount of € 49.9 million was found to be reasonable by an expert in the course of the contract negotiations, but was not fully achieved by 34 percent. As regards the interest rate, it should be noted that a comparison of the interest rate offered by Eurofighter of 7.48 percent with the actual interest rate of 4.488 percent is not possible or is difficult. This is also due to the fact that a reluctance to do so has been agreed, because performance reductions have been made and because a comparison cannot be made in this regard due to the changes in market conditions at the time of the offer and the actual conclusion of the purchase contract and the postponement of the delivery and payment dates. It should be noted in this connection that, if one assumes that this is not financed by the federal government itself, but by a bank, at the time of June 2003, the interest rate has been much more favourable if one compares it with a ten-year bond rate for federal bonds. In this context, it is also important to point out – and this too has been done by the Federal Minister for Finance – that very little or insufficient documentation is required of this financing process, both in terms of form and content of the contract and in terms of the financing process or individual steps in the financing process. In the future, it should be ensured that at least a financing process of such importance is also duly comprehensible and transparent. In this context, it is certainly important that, in future, an amount limit should be removed in the case of procurement of this scale, in order not to weaken its position by any subsequent negotiations. With regard to counter-actions, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs has presented the situation. I can only point out that, in view of the end of the review period, the Court of Auditors has reached 1. In particular, the counter-measures have not submitted any examinations in particular, but in accordance with § 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, a request for the examination of Members Dr. Cap and Dr. Kräub has now been received and we are in the process of developing this test order or the test concept. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the government for having recognised the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. [[Abg. Gaál: They didn't know anything!]] In connection with this, I would also like to thank the staff who have done a great deal of work on this procurement process in the period from 1993 until now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19794	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. Mr deputies, you have taken two minutes of welcome speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19815	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Federal Ministers on the Government Bank! High house! If there is a lack of material arguments, then the polemics are taken, and this has made the opposition parties abundant today. Many reviews, including those carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Auditors, have accompanied this procurement, and each examination has actually confirmed the complete correctness of this procurement. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the facts again in the near future. First: The indispensableness of airspace monitoring is actually not disputed. Even our chief of state from Salzburg and the socialist mayor of the city of Salzburg, Heinz Schatz, confess themselves to the surveillance of the airspace and to the acquisition of these airspace surveillance equipment. Moreover, as an Austrian citizen, I am very happy that the government is creating and ensuring this maximum security for us. Secondly, With this acquisition of around €2 billion, about €4 billion of Austrian value added from counter-business could be achieved. Thirdly, to the type decision: It's like we're getting a fourth-generation device. That is, it is at the last state of the art, and that actually at a price of the second generation. In my opinion, the negotiators have really succeeded in achieving an extremely favourable price. If I remember that the total purchase of every Austrian citizen costs about €250, then I mean that security is absolutely worth it. As a compensation, the citizen also receives about €500 in value added. So I can only congratulate the decision-maker on this procurement.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19854	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19876	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Government members! Ladies and gentlemen! With this policy of cover-up, you undermine Parliament's function. There is no doubt that the last meeting of the Court of Auditors was the case. The public, which we have requested, rejects the question of why this happened. You probably have something to hide if you reject it. [[Abg. Murauer: Yes, probably!]] You also need to understand that we demand to know what we are to discuss with you. The reference to confidentiality is a little too little, because it would undoubtedly mean a free letter for all contracts. This behaviour is contrary to our laws and is also contrary to our Rules of Procedure because it hinders parliamentary control. It is also necessary to question the concept of democracy. Federal Minister! They have responded very strongly to the question of who signed the contract. Your answer was: The Treaty is legally binding, and that will be enough! - It's not enough! If Mr Gahr thinks there is no obligation to disclose and there is no reason at all to talk about it, then I must say: That corresponds exactly to your attitude! Mr Neudeck said that it was good when the Court of Auditors examined it. We very much appreciate the task and the work of the Court of Auditors, but if this is to be done alone, we already have to ask the question of parliamentary control. If you, Mr. Neudeck, want to be a climber for this cover-up, then you can be that, but we want to make it clear. [[Abg. Scheibner: Wait! Form a bit moderate!]] The question of exit has also not been answered. The Court of Auditors' statement that continuous airspace monitoring with these devices is not possible increases the brilliance of the clarification of this question. As we have just heard in the statements of the President of the Court of Auditors, it seems to me that this Treaty is very much service-friendly, and that is why it is so. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing but inconsistencies, therefore, that it must be clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to be free from any suspicion, then you need action.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19925	The next item is the speech by Mr Böhm. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19947	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: Much has already been said about the airspace surveillance vehicles and as much about the counter-businesses. However, there are still a few aspects that need to be considered, especially from an economic point of view and there and also in technological terms. In technological terms, I think it is particularly important to mention that one is unfortunately forgetting the contribution of Austria to metallurgy. If we take the voestalpine, we take the Böhler forge technology, we take Böhler Kapfenberg and all the other companies that have done high-quality work in this sector, especially in terms of the development of aircraft! In order to be able to tell you a little about the importance of technological development in this regard: I only call the chrome nickel steel, for example, or the chrome nickel vanadium steel, which is used for producing materials that meet the highest demands at the lowest temperatures. To give you a small indication: These materials are tested at minus 100 degrees Celsius for tear strengths, tensile strengths and for cherries. At the end of the day, this is also used to counteract arguments, as Mrs Lapp put it earlier, that the plane cannot fly or function at a floor temperature of minus 32 degrees Celsius. As a welding engineer and metallurgy, I can only say to her: That's ridiculous. The flight surveillance devices are of course made up of best materials thanks to Austrian developments. In the case of flights over the Atlantic or also over the mainland, the aircraft is exposed to a temperature of less than 60 degrees at 10,000 to 12,000 metres above sea level, and as far as I can remember, all aircraft are still well landed. On behalf of the Salzburg economy, I am also grateful for the use of the Federal Minister for counter-businesses, especially for the company Palfinger and the company Naue & Naue, which is located in Radstadt, on the border with Styria and employs over 400 employees. Thanks to the commitment of the Federal Minister, it has finally been possible to produce vehicle parts for the army in Great Britain from the counter-businesses, especially from the MAN mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19977	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e19998	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Minister! High house! We didn't get the contract. Mr Platter, you have given various reasons for this. A statement of reasons still needs to be made to me or to the House: You said that would violate NATO Secretary. Now you have declared that the Eurofighter is a European product. What does that mean? Are we bound to NATO conditions when buying interceptors? Why should we now have to stick to these things? [[Abg. School: Do you need to adjust like this?]] This is at least a statement that you owe us if you already claim that you have already explained everything to us. [[Abg. School: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fauland.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A second question – you can speak if you have anything to say –: It is said in the Court of Auditors' report, and I am referring exclusively to this Court of Auditors report, because we have not been presented with the Treaty, that is, on 27 May. In August 2002, the then Minister Scheibner decided not to buy 24, but only 18 aircraft, with an option of 6 planes. ==References== August 2002, if you don't know! Mr. Minister of Defense at the time! The Court of Auditors asks what this option looks like. That's what the report says inside. Where did this option stay? Are there any side agreements? Can we buy them? Do we have to buy them sometime? I wonder if we should buy them because the Court of Auditors report also says that the government decided in July 2002: Yeah, we're buying these Eurofighters! The basis for this decision was – what does that mean? – an operational-tactic concept of the Ministry of Defence, and this concept states that 24 machines are necessary for comprehensive airspace defence in peace periods. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Since then, the Court of Auditors has also noted that there is no other concept. That means, for me, that with 18 machines our airspace cannot be protected safely enough. Your concept! You, Mr Scheibner, were Minister of Defense at the time. [[Abg. Scheibner: You need to know what airspace defense means!]] Show us this new concept or tell us how you want to do with this 18! Or do we need only twelve or nine anyway? Maybe they're enough to protect the Olympics. [[Abg. Scheibner: I explained this to you! You should have listened!]] If one has listened very closely to the statements made by the President of the Court of Auditors – and I have done so – it is known that he has said that the reduction in the quantity, the reduction of equipment, was only necessary because a cover of the money to be used, the capital available, was absorbed. Keywords: Budgetary Support Act. But now I wonder what the following statement I have repeatedly heard from the government bank, from the Minister Plattner, the Minister of Finance and other members of the government – Platter; [[Abg. Neudeck: Platter is the name of the Minister!]] Excuse me, Minister of State! –: We have had to do this reduction because the flood came and because it has to do so much for the flood victims! [[Abg. Neudeck: This has been said by you!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who said that?]] You said it. [[Abg. Scheibner: No one said that!]] You said it here. Platter said it here. But what do we find out? – It was no longer possible to buy 24 but only six. [[Abg. Neudeck: Six? You say six? We're buying 18!]] I ask you, Minister of Finance, Minister of Defence, to give me a flood offering that only one euro has received more because you bought six planes less. We can't afford that! And that's where you came up very late.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20152	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20174	Mr President. High house! I would like to comment on Dr Günther Kräuter's attacks on the Federal Chancellor. I have here the word protocol of the meeting from Salzburg, and a certain mayor Dr. Heinz Schatz has literally said: One of the key questions of the evaluation commission last time – in the last application for Salzburg for the Olympic Games – was: Can we guarantee airspace surveillance, yes or no? That's actually the way it is: Only if this is guaranteed – thank you, Minister of Defence, thank you for the presence today – only then does the IOC say yes, these are safe games. That also away from party tactics and other things. It's the truth and nothing else. - To the extent mayor's damage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: But it doesn't need the sintering Eurofighters!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of Abg. Toni, you get smart out of harm!]] High house! At the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we discussed with our Minister for Finance the following questions: First: The 18 selected half-year rates were the optimal payment option. Secondly, The remission of liability resulted in a discount of € 32.8 million. Thirdly, The use of the Austrian Federal Finance Agency for Pre-financing made it possible to achieve an advantage of € 127 million. Fourth: As a result of the reluctance, more than € 100 million was saved. Fifth, you open a bottle The interim financing of €75 million was a good business for taxpayers. Conclusion of the whole: The funding is not scandalous, but professional work.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20235	The next speaker to speak is Dr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20257	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has examined the Treaty, and now the National Council is to examine and assess the Treaty. A single condition is missing – the contract. We asked the Minister of Defence in the Committee why he could not present the Treaty to us, and his answer was the silence of office. [[Abg. Neudeck: We've heard that four times!]] As a result, we have explained that this is not legally sustainable. This was noted by the Minister of Defence and answered the repeated question: Well, if it's not official silence, there's a secret clause in the contract. We then asked the Minister of Defence to read out the secretory clause. The Minister of Defence stated that he could not do so because the secret clause was secret. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have allowed myself the question whether he could at least, without endangering national security, announce who signed the contract on the part of the Ministry of Defence. On that the Minister of Defense said, no, he could not, for this was subject to the silence of office. [[Abg. Gaál: This is secret!]] Not even the name of the undersigned or signed official may be communicated to the National Council because the Office is in principle silent. [[Abg. Neudeck: You want a Witness program!]] However, if the office is so silent that the Committee no longer gets any information at all, then we need to discuss the silence of office. Then we cannot discuss the Eurofighters, then there is no way to say yes to this report today and to give our assent because we would have to issue a personal license. We will have to ask for the contract again, we will do it a second and third time, sometime we will get it. Nevertheless, I am grateful to the President of the Court of Auditors for adding a number of criticisms here in a very, very polite manner and in a way that takes account of the government. [[Abg. Gaál: Very gentle!]] I prefer to do it in opposition German and put it together: First: In the military field, the Court of Auditors concludes: Threats may only occur if the Eurofighter is ready to use. If the Eurofighter – which is not guaranteed – is not ready to use, threats should not occur. The question is whether the threat to the new doctrine of Austrian airspace surveillance is being maintained. We have certain doubts about that. Secondly, The Court of Auditors points out that there are false figures. The procurement costs did not vote, they had to be corrected. The hidden costs of hundreds of millions of euros, which have been repeatedly denied, have been exposed and numbered by the Court of Auditors. According to the Court of Auditors' statement and criticism, operating costs are simple and simply wrong. They shall be the double of the sum referred to by the Ministry of Defence. We – and when I say “we”, it is the public and the Austrian National Council – have been systematically misled in terms of the costs of the objectives of use as regards the feasibility of the concept. The focus of systematic error is the Austrian Minister of Finance, who – and this is the only way to interpret it – did not represent political, non-governmental, non-party, but private interests towards the purchase of the most expensive aircraft, and it can only be explained in a committee of inquiry what these private interests of the Federal Minister of Finance are. A very last thing about the question of Olympia. We obviously do not need an airspace surveillance aircraft, but a stadium surveillance aircraft, after the German government's latest argument. The question is whether the Eurofighter is purely technically suitable as a stadium surveillance aircraft. [[Abg. Murauer: Oh yes!]] In fact, it has a problematic trait: As Europe's state-of-the-art fighter plane, he flies too fast for stadium surveillance. [[Abg. Murauer: Over a stadium he flies slower!]] Since it is a matter of monitoring relatively small objects, military experts have found: When the Eurofighter flies at stadium surveillance speed, it comes into an unstable position and threatens to fall to the sports ground in extreme cases. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaál: The damage suffers damage!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We don't want this to happen to the Olympic thought. That is why we also need to protect the Olympic thoughts and a possible venue of Salzburg from the procurement of the Eurofighters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20403	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20425	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Not least because of the cabaretist input of my predecessor, but also through the whole debate, once again, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you simply do not like these planes. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But you know very well the need and indispensableness of the airspace surveillance of our Republic. Therefore, try everything to talk these things badly, so try to speak these procurement processes badly. The extract from the Court of Auditors Committee of the last time, ladies and gentlemen, has once again demonstrated that these meagre conspiracy theories and these criminal fantasies are now in the end that you are simply going out of the fabric for these stories. So let's go back to the facts again. The Court of Auditors, in all three of its reports, disproves that something would not have happened with the necessary transparency. The fact that the Eurofighter is the best bidder is explicitly spoken of as a correct process, and that even under modified financing conditions – i.e. with these ten half-yearly rates – no bidder falls. The procurement process is transparent and corresponding to all uses of military procurement. In the Committee, you have also expressed your distrust with the Court of Auditors, which we do not share, and you have also issued a poverty certificate, because this procurement process has allowed entry into the high-tech club. We already have counter-businesses in a total of 1.6 billion or 240 percent of the net purchase price. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you have also delivered a declaration of bankruptcy of your security policy views. Do you want the planes, do you want interceptors, do you want airspace surveillance or not? - That's the question. But whenever your green foreman shows a reasonable approach to this issue, he will be plowed back by the left in his group, and it is similar to the SPÖ. There are no alternatives that you offer, there is only inconceivableness. As a resumé, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: The Eurofighter is ready to start and can fly, the SPÖ still cannot.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20471	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20492	Ladies and gentlemen! Just a short time. On the one hand, Mr Pilz – you know it anyway, but it was a rhetorical quite interesting introduction, and I said thank God we still have been able to move you to come in late, but yet here to the High House –: Stadium monitoring, of course, is not the task of the airspace surveillance aircraft, but rather of monitoring the airspace over meeting venues such as an EM stadium. This doesn't refer to the immediate stadium, but you know that anyway. I have, however, only mentioned myself briefly, because I wanted to put something right that honourable Member Gaßner has said. He claimed that I would have said that the reduction from 24 to 18 we did then in 2002 because otherwise we could not have compensated the flood victims. Mr Gaßner! At the time, I held back from it, and it was reserved for your party to say first, now you have to give up the takeover because otherwise you can't compensate the flood victims. [[Abg. Gaál: This is what the Lord Schüssel has said!]] You know very well that the first rate for the catcher is not yet due until today, but the flood victims are already compensated. At that time, because of the overall economic outlook, especially because of the poor economic situation, it could be that the procurement could not suffice the funds for other security tasks. And that was the reason for the reduction. There was also a commitment from the Minister of Finance. In this context, I always remember that at least part of the money saved comes from Austrian security, namely disaster protection and also the Austrian Federal Army for the tasks it has to do otherwise. But the comparison and the fear of being said that the government has money for interception hunters, but not for the flood victims, this untenable and really renouncing comparison for me, which you and your party did at the time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20527	Mr Herzegovina is speaking as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20554	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Some final remarks. So to link big sports events with the Eurofighters, that's actually white nonsense. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not careful again!]] The population can be convinced of the flying evidence. There are no F15 flights in the Austrian airspace. Why should the Eurofighters be needed to guide major events? There you can quote who you want, the evidence is available at any time. [[Abg. Neudeck: A debate with herbs at the end is not to be held!]] In principle: At the presentation of the President of the Court of Auditors, the faces of the three members of the government have become longer and longer, and that is no wonder. It is clear that the Eurofighter is only limited enough for Austrian airspace surveillance, when funding a bundle of inconsistencies opens up, and counter-businesses have to be checked at all. That makes it clear: There will be further parliamentary investigations. This is, quite certainly, ladies and gentlemen, much safer than the question of whether the Eurofighters will even come to Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20604	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-143 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. [[19:17:36]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (970 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Law on Quality Assurance in Audits (A-QSG) is passed and the Law on the Quality Audit Quality Assurance is amended (1051 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20648	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker, Mr Matznetter. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20675	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just waiting for the ladies and gentlemen to decide to go or stay. We have a non-controversial point today. These points should also be highlighted when they are raised. Part one: Today, we are adopting a quality assurance law for the final audit sector, which complements the extremely high standard we have in the field of testing in Europe, but above all in continental Europe and in Austria, because of changes that have come from America, starting from the Enron and Worldcom scandals, through an external assessment of the quality of the examination. We in Austria do not have to shy this kind of accompanying control, as the Austrian law firms work at a high quality level and have no problem giving insight into this area. The SPÖ will, of course, agree to this part. Part two: At this point, after I came to the committee from which I originally came, I would like to withdraw part of this statement with regret from the Chamber of Economic Trustees, which I have been listening to since 1985, when in some things I have not yet arrived in modern times, after today's round of talks. Today, in a very constructive discussion, it was possible to make a huge leap forward in the modernisation of a very complicated right. So far we had five professions: commercial accountants, independent accountants, tax advisors, accountants, auditors, and we had a sixth with the government bill, an auditor without tax advisor authority. All the political groups here in the House have said clearly: We want competition, we want liberalism combined with high quality. That is why we want to create a common profession of the balance sheet holders within one year – for this there is a resolution. Secondly, the reduction to only two WT occupations should take place very quickly: Tax advisors and auditors; The latter with the full scope of authorisation of tax advisors. This is a reasonable solution, and I can say to the government groups that I am the first to speak about it: It was a constructive cooperation of all political groups! We would wish that in other areas, we would bring reasonable things to the stage so unchallenged and good! I believe that this is proof that this House has learned after the difficulties in 1999 and in some areas clearly shows modern features of modern legislation. And we also need not be ashamed of our interests: They are willing and able to accompany this path. In this sense, I, today, as a member of a different board as a functional, should also have the corresponding respect for being here with the Chamber of Economic Trustees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20712	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20733	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can go directly to what my previous speaker said. We have dealt with the Quality Assurance Act or the Quality Assurance Act in the Economic Committee. – In essence, an EU recommendation is being implemented here, taking into account that there have been some scandals in other countries. We therefore need to define the quality according to certain criteria. That is to say, in the clear text, that audits are carried out by companies after three years or after six years. In the final effect, this procedure, I believe, is also direction-setting for other areas. It is very often said that we want to ensure quality. Sometimes it is only a matter of using the skills to close the way for others to work. On this occasion we also made a clarification of the rights of accountants. It is essentially about the fact that there was a Constitutional Court decision which, in terms of value limits, would have preferred the commercial accountants to the independent accountants. In other areas, there is now a benefit of the independent accountants as regards access to FINANCIALZOnline. - Now we're moving. In order to address this inequality, but above all to give the consumer an overview, we have decided, unanimously, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, that a resolution should be adopted within one year of the merger of the two professions. On this occasion I should also like to draw attention to what Mr Matznetter has said and what we have discussed with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce today: It is a matter of trying to get from the now five professional groups within this sector to three. – This is the subject of the amendment tabled by Mr Hofmann, Mr Matznetter and myself, which I can now bring in and, essentially, also explain. It is precisely about clarifying the various professions. After the merger we will have in future the profession of the accountant, the tax advisor and the auditor. Simplifications will also be made, in particular with regard to independent accountants and the conditions for admission, access and practice: Here a reduction of 12 years to nine years has been made. There are also corresponding improvements in the accounting. In addition, a few technical clarifications are included in this request. In essence, I can see that we also have agreement with the relevant profession and that we have also clarified this with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I should therefore like to thank all those who have helped to ensure that the practice is properly taken into account without ideology and that the consumer is in the foreground, which will benefit the most. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e20787	I declare that the request made by Mr Mitterlehner, Mr Hofmann and Mr Matznetter in his key points has also been submitted in writing, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. With regard to the scope of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure and copy them to the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21085	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21106	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Audit Quality Assurance Act is an important step that will be taken to review the companies. We see it as absolutely positive that this law will be passed. I would like to address a critical point which I have already mentioned in the Committee and which unfortunately has not changed: It is true that the auditors can choose their own quality auditors, and I consider this to be a weakening of the law. This law is therefore passed to ensure the quality of the auditors. But if these auditors are now able to choose for themselves who checks them, then there is simply a great risk that this quality will be reduced in the exam. I therefore think it is at least not quite understandable why this pass has been taken in and why it is not simply said as in other areas: It is left to chance which auditors will examine the respective auditors so to speak. Nevertheless, I have now decided – contrary to our voting behaviour in the committee – to agree to this law, because I believe that it is all such an important step that, while we simply need to keep in mind the mentioned one, it is not a sufficient reason for a total rejection now. The same applies to the economic loyalty law. After the amendment tabled by Mr Matznetter, who essentially formulated Mr Matznetter, and I really have to say this, has such a detailed knowledge that he has clearly convinced even the government groups – and which really deals very much with it and includes what we have discussed in the Committee, I think it is good to also adopt this law together. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are open to reasonable suggestions!]] Nevertheless, a point is still quite open, namely the approximation of commercial and independent accountants. However, since there is also a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister to bring these two professions together until the end of the GP, we will also vote in favour of this law. The only problem that remains open is that there is already an announcement that a further action will be brought at the Constitutional Court, with regard to the balance sheet boundaries. This is a point that remains open. These upper accounting limits will certainly have to be removed, but this is, in comparison to what is currently being lifted or amended by the Constitutional Court, so to speak, a blatant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21143	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21164	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The first part of the legislative matter for decision-making includes adjustments to the quality control system and quality assurance system as well as to the performance of a quality check. This, as I believe, certainly also means strengthening international confidence in the financial market in Austria, and I also believe that this will increase the credibility of the financial information that has been disclosed and that, ultimately, it also has a positive impact on Austria's economic location. It will also, as I believe, increase the protection of shareholders, investors and creditors, as well as certainly other stakeholders. In the European internal market, as I believe, there must be an interest in a broad harmonisation of quality assurance systems and quality and testing standards. This is taken into account here. Single standards of public supervision shall be organised. Furthermore, a VfGH knowledge is taken into account. This concerns the value limits. Here there is equality between the independent accountants and the commercial accountants. As has already been said, a corresponding motion for a resolution should ultimately bring together these two professional groups. Furthermore, access to customer data will be possible for commercial accountants through access to financial online. I think it is simply important that over 300 000 customers, namely Austrian companies, know who can do what and who is responsible for what. I should like to thank Mr Matznetter, who, as an expert on matter, as I think, has come in as a specialist in the field of vocational education and training in particular. At this point I would also like to thank for the participation of the representatives of the different professional groups and I can conclude by saying: I believe that something very, very good has been achieved, which ultimately involves this joint amendment. Thank you for that too! Something good has been achieved, and the opposition role has been abandoned in this case in the sense of a reasonable common solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21209	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21231	Mr President. High house! When Mr. Dr. Matznetter brought his thoughts into the committee, I formulated, among other things, that I am looking for at least one consensus on such issues and expressed my doubts as to whether these ideas could very quickly reach a consensus with the professional group concerned. I am pleased to note today that consensus is there, and this is very encouraging for all those involved, not only the high level of consensus here in plenary, but also consensus with the group of economic loyals concerned. Thank you to all those who have negotiated here and have shown this consensus and compromise! I am particularly grateful for the motion for a resolution. It's not just a backpack, it's a quite large backpack filled with some weight, which you'll give me. Now, within a year, negotiations on the creation of the profession of a joint accountant on the basis of what is now, on the one hand, commercial and on the other, independent accountants, that is already something! Some experts on the Members' benches smile suffocantly or at least – I correct myself – knowingly. I'm correcting myself. Finally, I would like to address the criticism of Mr Sburny. You have already said this in the committee, I am responding to it again and mention here also the example of the driver or driver who has the car checked at a workshop of his or her choice and can get the vignette there, which is not even the quality inspector. [[Abg. Brosz: And who checks the car workshop? – Other car workshops?]] The vehicle to be checked shall be stopped in a workshop at the choice of the owner of a car, and it shall also be in the present case that the quality inspectors must, for their part, obtain the qualification. That is completely out of question! But in the peer review there is this working committee, and precisely this working committee selects the quality inspector in a three-way proposal. The quality auditor is not even selected ad personam by the auditor to be checked, but it submits a three-way proposal and an independent body then selects from this three-way proposal those who have to carry out the quality review. I mean, this is a very common procedure, so that I am quite constructive to you, but I say that I am not of your opinion, ladies and gentlemen, on this point, but I thank you for your already expressed intention to accept the law. I would also like to thank all the political groups for their high level of consensus on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21270	The next speaker was Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21292	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the Committee meeting, the first intention was to improve the quality of the final audits. This was clearly evident in the government template. As we have seen this as positive, we have already been able to accept this point in the Committee. However, it looked slightly different in the second part: The intention – at least I understood – was to reduce bureaucracy in the Chamber and improve the quality of self-management. In the government template itself, the realization of this intention has actually not become visible. Mr Matznetter has been mentioned and addressed several times today, and it has indeed been so that his very knowledgeable contribution has signaled and made his conviction that, after appropriate negotiations, there can be an impeccable outcome today. I am pleased, even in the interests of customers, if we decide on the appropriate resolution. If it will be implemented in the future, customers will also benefit from it, and it is also about increasing competition on this issue. With this in mind, I can only say: Thank you very much to all those who have already participated in a very objective discussion in the Committee and who are bringing the matter to a good end in a good negotiation today! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21325	Mr Steindl was mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21346	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only agree with the statements made by my previous speakers and would like to thank my colleague Dr. Matznetter here for his participation in this regulation by the independent accountants and accountants, as well as my colleague Mitterlehner and all those who have contributed here. However, there are some points which we can probably better regulate on the basis of the motion for a resolution, such as the abolition of factory limits for independent accountants in the finalisation process. This is still a significant disadvantage from the perspective of competitiveness for the independent accountants, which should be eliminated. In this context, it should be mentioned that we are pleased to obtain about 30 000 new entrepreneurs each year in the economy, with more than half of them being so-called one-man entrepreneurs or one-woman entrepreneurs who are just happy to take advantage of the services of these self-employed accountants, because the latter, of course, also work cheaply. We are on the right track here, and I thank the responsible person once again for the motion for a resolution and for finally bringing the matter to a good end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21383	Again, Mrs Sburny spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21404	Thank you. – It is just important to me that I am properly understood in connection with this test story. They have also brought the example with the car workshop in the Committee. I'm not concerned with the companies choosing a examiner. That would be like choosing my workshop for the picker. I'm concerned that the examiner chooses his quality examiner. This problem has arisen in the car workshops. If a workshop gives up illegal Pickerl, that is, someone would not make a correct final report at a farm, and then be able to choose from whom to check their pickerl award – then there are a few others that benefit from the fact that illegal Pickerl is awarded – then the danger – I don't say it happens, but there is the danger – that a system according to the motto one hand will be created and the examination will not fulfill the purpose it should have, namely that the quality is guaranteed. And I think that's a problem. I simply do not know why this is intended and not said, okay, there is an authority that checks, and whoever checks the auditors, that is left to chance or authority. It is simply not clear to me why someone or a workshop – whether it's selected from a three-way proposal – should be able to choose for themselves who will check their picker's award. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21437	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21459	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Sburny! I know what you're talking about, but as you said, it was a little difficult to understand. [[Abg. Sburny: If you know what I want, you've already succeeded!]] This law now introduces a safety measure which acts as if it were in a slightly sitting pants of the belts. They want belts and pants now. That's the double backup. We now have a proposal which will then be selected. I believe that this regulation is quite positive. – Mr Broukal shows that he has belts and pants. But now I don't want to explain why, we'll do that in the conversation. Ladies and gentlemen! This matter and the negotiations have shown that the moment in which not ideologies, but results count, goes further. I have also heard from colleagues that Mr Matznetter, with his profound knowledge, has been very involved in the fact that all professional groups now believe with divergent views that this is a compromise that can be carried along, and that is important. For me, it is particularly important that this also strengthens confidence in the Austrian financial market, especially at a time when more and more provisions for the population are embedded in different forms of funds et cetera, but also in shares and equity. It is particularly important to give the small saver and the small co-owner of an AG, a fund the certainty that events that have happened around Austria and also in the USA can no longer happen or cannot happen to us. In any case, we have established security mechanisms. And I am particularly pleased that this is happening in a four-party consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21498	The next speaker was Mr Dr Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21520	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, this wording serves to be found in those newspapers in which one is registered to speak. And there are several who make any statements at this hour. I tell you, I am very much in favour of this and I am very pleased that there is a unanimous procedure here. The sense of speech from the tenth and twelfth speakers at each item on the agenda is obviously due to these media. We should talk about this openly, and I would ask the Bureau of Parliament to take action against it. That can't be proof of service. I'm just saying, I am particularly pleased by the current law that the directive, which will be implemented, will be implemented by means of this law. It could also have been that a wealth of relevant laws would have been adapted and therefore the focus would not have been on quality assurance. In this sense, it is to be thanked to the Minister of State and to all officials that one is the importance by means of this law to be created and to be decided today. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21550	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21571	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Law on Quality Assurance is one of those measures which are constantly put in place by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to secure the economic location and also to facilitate the handling of those who stand by the economy and undertakings. Finally, the quality and legal certainty of improving the quality of life was also stressed. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the use of motor vehicles and their trailers in the event of a failure to comply with the laws of the Member States to fulfil their obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The economic loyalty law also deals with the removal of barriers, namely those which have so far denied commercial accountants online in a anticompetitive way, for example, information on customer data, access to customer declarations. There is now an alignment of the independent and the commercial accountant. In this respect, it is a practical solution which was already granted to the independent accountants in 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, these are important measures for the economy to improve working conditions, to increase the attractiveness of commercial accountants in their function as partners and service providers for businesses in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21611	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1051 of the Supplements. Hiezu, Deputies Dr. Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, Dr. Matznetter, colleagues, tabled an additional amendment or amendment which refers to Article 2. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Dr Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Dr. Matznetter, colleagues. I would like to ask those Members of the House who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report in 1051. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. (E 118.) [[19:48:36]] 9. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (971 d. B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Commercial Code 1994, the Emissions Protection Act for boiler plants and the Mineral Raw Materials Act (Competition Law 2005) (1052 A.D.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21678	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21710	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we Socialists support all economic and regulatory measures that lead to more employment and facilitate investment in the economy. However, it is important to us in this context that there is no deterioration in the quality of the laws, in particular as regards their security and their democratic approach in terms of transparency and the public. In our view, the new commercial law in 2005 will be considered very differentiated, as we have already discussed this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. When implementing the EU Directives, that is, the Public Participation Directive, we are in the draft d’accord. As far as the extended field of activity of commercial accountants in this area is concerned – we have just discussed this before – we are going to d’accord. That's an improvement. We also generally support the extension of the scope of the simplified authorisation procedure because it is in the interests of the economy and the process economy. Many projects can thus be implemented much faster. But we're leaning on Art. 1 Z 20 from, because from our point of view, the increase in the limit values of the objects from 300 m2 to 800 m2 is not appropriate. In our view, many projects, especially in urban areas, leave the balance between economic interests and neighbouring rights. A second important point also prevents us from agreeing to this, namely the provision of close-up services. The large opening would mean that the already very poor local supply by Greißler would be further disadvantaged. We therefore also agree with the Constitutional Court of Justice in the light of this consideration, according to which these limit values are initially reduced from 1 000 m2 to 300 m2. In the original government template, the size was 600 m2. At 600 m2 we could have gone along, but after it is not a compromise, we reject this innovation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21754	The next speaker was Mrs Mikesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21775	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today's change to the trade regulation is another measure in the growth and employment summit on 1st October. It was decided in May of this year. The results of this summit showed three important measures for future growth and employment: even more investment in research and infrastructure, additional measures on the labour market and the reduction of bureaucratic obstacles to plant facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! An important step has been taken with the extension of the simplified approval procedure to operations with no more than 800 m2 and less than 300 kW of connection power. Following a recognition of the Constitutional Court, a massive restriction of this simplified procedure had occurred. At the same time, however, the so-called Public Participation Directive is being implemented. Good location policy secures and creates new jobs, and process duration is an important part of site decisions. In this respect, Austria is internationally top. We are currently at 64 days of average process duration for operating plant permits. In spring, the regional ranking was presented by CONTOR-REGIO. All European regions of the old as well as of the new Member States were evaluated. For Austria, it is very welcome that five regions from Austria were among the first 20 in the field of high technology alone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Another important point for our small and medium-sized enterprises is the expansion of the competence of commercial accountants. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Today's innovation of the trade order is another mosaic in the use of growth and employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21857	The amendment just read by Dr Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Dr. Matznetter, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21930	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21951	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The previous speaker described the removal of civil participation and the restriction of rights of neighbors as a reduction of bureaucratic obstacles. I think that's wrong. This is a wrong way of thinking and does not bring anything to businesses either. We're deciding on a collection oven here today. There are several... – I am a daughter of an innkeeper. [[Abg. Steibl: You will know that! The colleague is an entrepreneur! You don't! You won't know that!]] I know what's going on with neighbors at an inn. That's exactly the same thing. I would like to stress once again: If you as a company do not involve your neighbors in the procedure, you have a risk under Austrian civil law. If the neighbor did not have a party position in the proceedings, he could resort to civil law and, if anything happens, he could, in any case, complain of omission. If he is involved in the proceedings, the neighbor, the neighbor cannot, then there is only one claim for compensation. The fact that the neighbours are gradually being pushed out of the regulatory procedures means legal uncertainty for businesses. I don't understand that from the point of view of an entrepreneur. I'd rather have a procedure two weeks longer, but then everything is done properly and I have my life's peace. That I was able to complain to Mohovce's operating company was only possible because Mohovce did not involve any neighbours or interested parties in his approval procedure. That's why I can sue for injunction there and not for damages. I think this is an important point that you constantly overlook in the delusion, in deregulating and shortening everything. The difference in the duration of proceedings in Vienna is between 55 and 42 days. I think these few days should be worth having a properly negotiated legal peace with our neighbours. That's my opinion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you really want to speed up procedures, you should look at the skills that are extremely fragmented in Austria between the federal government, countries, ministries and so on, and try to make a reform of competence. An example: A road needs to be protected by nature, according to water law and as a transport system. This only fails – and this really fails to your party – that it is not possible to make a reasonable distribution of competence or perhaps a uniform right of investment, in particular with the countries and with the national leaders. We have to deal with a noise protection law, with three ministries and eleven legislators. There would be a significant acceleration, but I do not think it is good for us to push the neighbors out of the procedure for a 14-day reduction. In order to implement the EU Directive, a few sentences have been made: It is significant that there is a clear asymmetry between the operator of installations and the now also eligible NGOs and citizens' initiatives, which cannot go to the highest courts. I don't think that's fair. You should treat these two sides the same way. In the medium term, asymmetry of legal protection brings only dissatisfaction and the opposite of what we really want, namely improved procedures and thus also quality improved installations.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e21997	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22018	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This new commercial law is ultimately a consequence of the impact of the reform dialogue on 1. This year's measures were adopted. It has already become clear from the previous debates that it is a question of increasing the threshold for a simplified authorisation procedure for holdings of 300 m2 to 800 m2. We also have the information on the fact that there will be around 1 000 establishments which would fall under this new regulation in the field of simplified authorisation procedures. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: weeks faster!]] I also assume that it will have a positive impact on the employment situation in Austria, on the labour market and, of course, also on Austria's economic location. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Small and medium-sized enterprises are affected. So this is certainly not about the establishment of shopping centres. It should also be noted that the rights of the public are increased in the case of approval procedures, in particular with regard to environmental requirements. At the same time as increasing the threshold with regard to the area, the connection value will also be increased from 100 kW to 300 kW. This is quite welcome in view of the safeguarding of Austria's economic location and the rapid settlement of processes and will have a positive impact on Austria's economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22053	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22074	Mr President. High house! A few brief remarks: I do not understand you very well, Mr Moser, if you say that in principle everything is good, which leads to accelerated procedures, to investments and to jobs, but then you think that from 300 m2 to 600 m2 you could go along, but 800 m2 are too much for you. – I take note of it, but I regret it. 800 m2, 300 kW connection value: This is a significant extension to the simplified procedure. I am not of your opinion, Mrs Glavischnig, that a reduction of 14 days should be ignored. We have already explained in the Committee that it corresponds precisely to the EU Directive, which appeals are made by NGOs. If you call it crazy to deregulate and shorten everything, I have to tell you: I can already live with this craziness, but, ladies and gentlemen, who do not listen to me now, obviously and also demonstratively, because you have turned away from me, perhaps you should consider whether – even now you do not listen to me; that does not matter; it would be the opposite but a gross contempt and renunciation and so on – so you should consider whether this is not called by “red tape”, as overbureaucratisation in English language, should be duly slowly unnamed in “green tape”. [[Abg. Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek talks with MP Sburny, who sits behind her]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22112	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22134	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A number of comments on the simplified authorisation procedure in the trade regulation also include: I also regret that we could not agree. There have been constructive discussions, including representatives of the ÖVP. As far as the 600 m2 limit is concerned, one could not finally agree. It should be said again: We believe that the 600 m2 are very important in the interests of local services. We think 800 m2 is something too much, even in the light of the VfGH knowledge. However, what is undisputed is – and here I give my previous speakers part of the right – that, without a doubt, simplified procedures are particularly important in an economic structure characterised by small and medium-sized enterprises, because it makes no sense to hinder small and medium-sized enterprises in their activities, which are ultimately in no economic relation to the benefit of these procedures. Such procedures should therefore also be avoided in the interests of SMEs. In this context, I should like to refer once again to a request from Mr Matznetter, Mr Moser and Mr Hoscher, namely Amendment No 559/A, which refers to simplifications in the case of changes in small-scale plants. We have argued that, in practice, changes in such plants often lead to additional requirements, which may then force the establishments to discontinue their activities from economic considerations, although the modification of the plant itself does not result in any significant additional disadvantages. This is particularly problematic in connection with operational transfers. Especially in the tourism and leisure industry, many of these companies will be handing over in the next few years, and I would therefore suggest that we should put this request on the agenda in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy – also against the practices of the government parties – and not just delay it, but discuss it in terms of content. There should also be signs and miracles in this House. I therefore invite you to discuss this request in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22174	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22195	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the decision-making of this commercial law innovation, we take another important and necessary step to secure Austria's economic location. In doing so, we are implementing the agreements of the Employment Summit, as has already been said, by the Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, and this has to be said here again. So we not only announce, but we also implement and keep what we promise! Federal Minister Bartenstein said today in the current hour: “There’s nothing going on.” – I’m still saying: You have to work, invest, develop and decide. Only in this way was Austria's economic location excellently established. This also applies to the state of Styria. I do not want to mention what has happened in recent years – thanks to the support of our Minister in Vienna, Mr Waltraud Klasnic.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22226	The next Mrs Sburny's speech has been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22247	Mr President. Federal Minister! The increase to 800 m2 is indeed a major change in that it is also a counterpoint to what is happening in the countries. In some cases, the countries have very strict conditions. For example, at a shopping center in Vorarlberg the limit is set at 400 m2, because it is assumed that there is an impairment of the surrounding shops, the local supply or the entire surrounding economy. That is to say, there is also quite a difference in treatment, and the question arises whether this is not inequality. Whether this will be held before the Constitutional Court is not quite clear either. What I would like to say positively is that, in the course of this business regulation, the skills of commercial accountants are updated to take advantage of this opportunity to change this towards independent accountants. The amendment tabled by Mr Mitterlehner, Mr Hofmann, Mr Matznetter, extends these competences in the field of electronic file inspection. This is a point that we definitely support, and we will vote in separate votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22280	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22302	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we are so happy to call on the employment summit and it is also right that we should strive for simplified authorisation procedures – we already have them in many areas – we cannot, however, say that this is, among other things, the outflow of the employment summit, for it became there, as one of those who do so. It is not possible, for example, to define 300 m2 or 600 m2 or 800 m2, but merely to draw up the principle of simplification which we are in principle aware of. But it is also to be taken into account – and here I am of the opinion of some of my previous speakers, who have noted this – of the rights of neighbouring people. I know from experience that life with the farms and the arrants is becoming all the more difficult, the fewer people or those affected are involved in the process. I therefore think that this is a wrong step. Furthermore, it must be said: I do not believe that the provisions on the prevention of serious accidents with dangerous substances are too few in § 84(1). Similarly, I see that in § 359, where I believe that the involvement of the labour inspectorate is also necessary, in the direction that the transmission of the entire negotiation protocol is ensured, because I do not see why the labour inspectorate should not know the full extent of the negotiations. In any case, it should be ensured that the labour inspectorate is fully involved in order not to have to make corrections in the investment after all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22338	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law in 1052. Mr Sburny asked for a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 14a. The honourable Member, Mr Matznetter, also called for a separate vote on Rule 1 Z20. Finally, MEPs have Dr. Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, Mr Matznetter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the proposed amendment and on the parts affected by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 14a. Hiezu, Deputies Dr. Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, Mr Matznetter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment. When I consent, I seek a sign of confirmation. – This is unanimously accepted. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1(20) as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a positive sign. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[20:11:06]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Amendment No 648/A (E) by Mr Hermann Gahr, Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on alpine shelters (1053b)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22424	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. As First of all, Mr Schweisgut, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22449	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I regret that even at the time of the vote only half of the opposition was present and therefore the other half of the opposition cannot now follow the first speaker, because it was not there at the time of the vote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Nevertheless, I would like to make a few remarks. It's summer tourism ahead of us. Not only do we in Parliament have summer holidays, but also in tourism, where we are actually in the middle of the summer season. The motion for a resolution on Alpine shelters, tabled by Mr Gahr, is now in line with that. Austria is a hiking country, a classic country for gentle summer tourism. Over 500 huts stand on incredible 50 000 kilometres of hiking trails throughout Austria. These shelters are largely preserved by alpine clubs. These, of course, must constantly deal with renovations, are constantly faced with them. An ecological rehabilitation away from technical ascent aid is very expensive and also very complex, but should be in all our senses. The model that is being sought is intended to continue the very successful model that has already been launched under Wolfgang Schüssel, namely the protection cabin rehabilitation programme. At the moment, € 1.85 million is planned in our budget for shelter renovation. I would like to thank the Minister for an ongoing increase in the budget. In 2004, it was €1.48 million. Considering that two million hikers are urgently dependent on these shelters, it is necessary to consider adapting the permits in accordance with the Alpine circumstances. That, as far as I know, is also a subject of this motion for a resolution. For successful summer tourism, the alpine recreation area is certainly necessary, and the consequence of this is that we also need to clean up the shelters and maintain the hiking trails in an ecological way, and to do so we need an appropriate concept. I thank you for the four-party support in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22495	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22518	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In essence, I can follow the remarks made by my predecessor. The topic “alpine shelters” is indeed inseparably linked to the topic of “alpine clubs”. Especially the brand “migrant Austria” as an essential basis of local summer tourism, as has just been mentioned, would simply be impossible without the work of the countless volunteer employees in the Alpine associations. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to say thank you from this point of view to these employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was mentioned that about 500 shelters stand all over Austria. It is a road network of more than 50,000 kilometres, which forms the backbone of the Alpine infrastructure in Austria. If it is assumed that so-called hiking tourism achieves a turnover of about € 1 billion, as is estimated, in Austria, a promotion of about € 4 million per anno certainly does not appear to be measured. This sum of public funds is necessary in order to be able to implement the necessary conservation and improvement measures in the field of Alpine associations. Since resources need to be pooled, as such a vast network of roads also needs to be planned in the long term, it is of course particularly useful to develop a multi-annual programme for the Alpine region. The main points of this programme are set out in the motion for a resolution, so they do not need to be repeated. However, we also think that this programme – and this is not so clearly anchored in the application – should also ensure funding. In our view, this funding should not only be clearly fixed according to the level, for example with these €4 million, but also be put out of dispute over a longer period of time. The Alpine clubs don't talk for nothing of about ten years. I therefore believe that, in the appreciation of the work of the Alpine associations and in view of the great importance of the Alpine region, the current motion for a resolution on the financing issue should not only be a lip commitment to tourism and leisure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22562	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22583	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Investments for the Alpine shelters are a very necessary and targeted measure that enjoys the consensus of all the parties represented here. I believe that this is also an important contribution to achieving the objective of Austrian tourism, to further develop gentle tourism and to raise the quality of soft tourism in rural and alpine areas. We owe this to the reputation of Austria as a tourist country, taking into account the quality requirement of our guests. I think the rural regions are particularly important for the maintenance of tourism. I think we'll be much more there in the near future. In order for tourism to work even better, even more targeted and forward-looking in the countryside. I am very happy that there is such a broad initiative, and take this as an occasion to wish the summer tourism all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22619	The next item is the report by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22641	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate Members of the House! Following the request made by Hermann Gahrond Colleague Bucher, as it is a beautiful tradition in the House that matters concerning the Alpine Convention should be addressed with four-party applications, in particular that the Alpine Convention and its positive potential be reflected in this request. It is already known that, through all the committees, we are piling with the suggestion to highlight the importance of the Alpine Convention under the chairmanship of Austria. This is still not quite as successful in our eyes as it could actually succeed. Austria will now chair the Alpine Convention for two years. The Alpine Convention is a state treaty and, in so far as a very effective treaty is going to finally cover those areas which we do not think are really satisfactoryly resolved. I only refer to the transport protocol, which is so important to us, but which has not yet been ratified by the EU. We recommend that, during the two years of Austria's Presidency at the Alpine Convention, it is strongly urged that the Alpine Convention be signed with its entire protocols, namely by all the states of the Alps and, in particular, by the EU, and therefore propose that Austria should focus on the Alpine Convention next year, if it takes over the Presidency. Austria should take this opportunity to draw the public's attention to this Treaty more closely. By the way, we think it is very good that this proposal first states that the protection cabin renovation programme should be particularly designed for ecological optimization. Anyone who travels in the mountains knows how complicated this is at times, knows – for example, the Arthur House is here on the High King, who is so exposed that nothing can be applied in the countryside at all, everything needs to be transported back to the valley – how expensive this waste disposal comes and that therefore, in part, it has to be found with extreme means. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22677	Mr Zweytick is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22698	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already reported very detailedly, I would like to sum up once again: The shelters belong to our country like the mountains. They are also part of the tourist lifeline of our pastures and, above all, valuable part of the rural areas, and they are not at zero! The costs need to be budgeted responsibly to ensure that people are sustainable in the future. I am therefore very grateful to the applicants, above all to my colleague Hermann Gahr, for the fact that this four-party decision is being taken today. I do not want to follow up on what we have already discussed this morning, namely on ensuring the financing of the rural area, because I think we agree here and today that we are making money available for this funding, but I would like to remind you that there have been different opinions this morning to ensure the rural area and to ensure funding, my dear colleague, ladies and gentlemen. It is rural area, there like there: where farmers work, and also where perhaps fewer farmers and more tourists are on the road. In the end, too, it is the farmers who maintain the management of the pastures. One has to say that these are idealists; these are really idealists and many of them also volunteer. And it is nothing worse than simply telling such idealists out of the responsibility of politics that in the future the budgets that guarantee their livelihood will be reduced. It only produces depression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mr Gradwelt, look at these farmers, then you recognize what they think about such messages! They show disappointment! But we are not here to make disappointments for people in this country, but to show hopes and opportunities for the future. This is our great responsibility. There should be no distinctions in society between individual rural regions, between people and people there. – This is not our style, nor is it the ideology of the Austrian People’s Party, and I hope that even in the SPÖ there will be a rethinking in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22753	The next speaker was Mrs Scharer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22774	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Hut operators are getting less and less money and are expected to meet costly environmental standards at the same time. The Alpine clubs often find themselves unable to invest in shelters and ways. The result is that the sale of shelters, such as the Alpinzentrum Rudolfshütte Uttendorf-Weißsee of the Alpenverein to a hotelier in recent times, is already taking place. This development, ladies and gentlemen, must be prevented or stopped in order to maintain and extend the migrationable Austria. In addition to the ecological renovation of shelters and the maintenance of the alpine road network, the Alpine security seems to me particularly important that mountain rescue and alpine safety and rescue services receive appropriate equipment, not have to be bitters and the Blue Light deployment organizations are equated. This motion for a resolution is of course in favour of our approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22807	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22829	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I cannot understand the position of Mrs Scharer, who is going to make sure that huts could be sold to private and businessmen. I assume that once in principle it is important that the diversity of our mountains be preserved, that the huts and the conservation and protection of the natural habitat are kept in the Alps and that shelter restorations take place. It is true, however, that ecologically sound renovations are becoming more and more problematic in terms of energy, water supply and wastewater disposal, because they are becoming more expensive. However, as one of a comedian alpine region, I can say that in recent years, thanks to the support of the “Hüttenbilliarde”, a lot has happened in the area of hut renovations and mountain accommodation, that very extensive renovations have taken place. It is important to consider the procedures, also the fact that the means available to the Alpine associations and the operators of the huts are not only to be put into the hut renovation, but also to safeguard the roads and the safety in the mountains. As the mayor of that community, in which the mountain rescue was founded in 1896, I naturally think that one should also say thanks to this organization. The mountain rescue was founded in Lower Austria, ladies and gentlemen! Should this be unknown, I would stress it explicitly. The fact is that 2.4 million hikers operate the “mountain hops” every year. I would like to continue to have fun and would also like to thank the Alpine associations, the many idealists and volunteers, but above all the government and our Federal Minister for the support of these volunteers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22866	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22887	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was the Alpine associations of Austria that drew the attention of the Austrian Presidency at the Alpine Convention to the need to renovate and modernise the infrastructure in the alpine area outside the area of mechanical ascent aid. This is now to be taken into account in this motion for a resolution. It is clear that the Alpine associations and their most volunteer staff and officials and those who make personal contributions cannot raise the necessary financial resources and that their use can be supported on the other hand. This is to be taken into account by means of a financing concept, by ensuring the financing of the renovation of shelters and modernisation. I would like to thank in particular those who are volunteering here. I also note that the alpine area of course has a corresponding significance for Austrian tourism. This is to be met with this motion for a resolution by ensuring funding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22920	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Thank you, Mr Cap. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1053 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 119.) [[20:29:48]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (948, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Foreign Employment Act (1011, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22962	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Leutner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e22989	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendments to the Foreign Employment Act are directly related to the Constitution and Residence Act. This is also being re-ordered in these days. First, it should be said that the entire project also contains positive approaches, for example, the unlimited authorisation of so-called subsidiary workers on the labour market. I think you have to do that. It was also very important that two very adverse provisions for the workers' initiative on the SPÖ's initiative were taken out of the drafts – and this also concerns the local and residential law – or were eroded. One of these provisions would have affected the absence of the so-called key power position when foreign self-employed on the labour market. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, sheer independence, wage pressure and the associated displacement of Austrians and integrated foreigners would have been greatly facilitated. The second provision referred to the so-called special cases of self-employed employment. The result would have been that employees-like employment relations – usually very poor – had fewer requirements in the labour market in access to the labour market than regular employment conditions. Such provisions would have given rise to an incentive to avoid regular, normal working conditions in accessing the labour market and to present them as workers without protection. I believe that it is a success of the pre-negotiations on the total foreign package that these two provisions are not now determined as originally planned. Finally, and this remains our principle criticism of the draft Foreign Employment Act: We are currently faced with a number of problems in the labour market, which have their causes at least partly in the Foreign Employment Act. We urgently need a correction and an update of these rules, in principle, failed. Last but not least, the Wifo has pointed out that a significant proportion of unemployment is related to the chronic over-excessed seasonal kidney quotas. No wonder the number of quotas rose from 12 300 in 1999 to 33 600. Minister! Especially when tourism is now experiencing an increase in labour supply from countries with free movement – that is Germany – the number of quota places has to be reduced accordingly compared to the previous year, otherwise unemployment will rise. These concerns have not been taken into account, so we will not give the overall consent to the draft Foreign Employment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23041	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23062	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Your entry into your debate contribution, Mr Leutner, was that this foreign employment law, as it is now present, has a number of positive approaches, and the conclusion was that there will be no agreement on your part. I can't quite understand this spatula! [[Abg. Silhavy: Listen!]] Yeah, yeah. I think we should say a few things very clearly. First: This law regulates that only someone who is legally resident in our country can work in Austria. This is a topic of citizenship, a topic for all of us, and I think we have found a very correct solution here. Secondly, Legal residence or employment is only possible within the framework of the labour market capacity. Dr. Leutner said there were a number of conflicts here. – This is not a question, but it must be said that the labour market in Austria is generally well regulated. We are in the ranking of the European Union, the 25 Member States in second place. Nevertheless: Every unemployed person, I've said this several times, is too much! It would also be time for us to talk about all the issues relating to the rules on availability. In this respect too, many citizens are experiencing great discomfort. I think that's a subject that should deal with us in the next few days. Now, in concrete terms, to the present draft law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs. Silhavy, we're already where the problems are, we hear them too, we're also dealing with the people. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Dear Lady, you don't have to teach us! The main issue now is the implementation of the EU directives. In fact, there is no alternative. This includes the right to family integration, the legal status of long-term residents from third countries and the like. I am essentially concerned that, especially for seasonal eggs, there will be clear rules in the future. We need this quota to keep the economy in motion at the end of the day in order to be able to provide the services. Agriculture needs, above all, the quota of the harvest workers. I can tell you that we need people constantly to bring in the harvest, but in the country no one is willing to do this work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] It is also a subject on which we should once discuss emotion-free, objectively. The law finds our approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23130	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23151	Mr President. Mr Donabauer felt that it was not a sufficient explanation to say in general that there are a few positive points, but then still voted against. I am trying to explain now, Mr Donabauer, why we are against it. I admit, there are a number of improvements in this law. – Yes, you can have that in writing! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: It is also enough oral!]] The most serious point is that this law makes a provision – which is actually an exception to the Foreign Employment Act – regarding the free movement of EEA citizens and other EEA citizens who do not exercise their right to free movement. That's what the law says. The Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service says: ‘As regards the turning ‘EEA citizens who do not exercise their right to free movement’, it appears unclear how these EEA citizens could have come to the territory of the Republic of Austria without the use of free movement. In doing so, the Federal Chancellery Constitutional Service does not overlook the date of the effective functioning of Community law in Austria, but it does not appear to justify the differentiation that has been made.” That sounds a bit complicated and swollen now, but that's the problem of the text of the law: EEA citizens who are differentiated as to whether they have exercised their right of free movement at the time of accession to the EEA, or whether they have not claimed that right at the time and are therefore not entitled to free movement. In our opinion, and not only in our opinion, but also in the opinion of the Constitutional Service, this is a provision which makes undue discrimination not only within the group of EEA citizens, but also discriminates against domestics in the consequence – and I do not do so. Please be careful, Mrs Partik-Pablé: Nationals are discriminated against by this provision! But that's just the one point. It is quite clear that there may be an unlawful and unwarranted discrimination here, which is likely to be unconstitutional, if not unwarranted. The real point, and that has already been pointed out by Mr Leutner – and I say it again clearly – is that the Foreign Employment Act has made such a large number of differentiations from other categories of persons, just as it has created an inadmissibly high number of groups that fall within the scope. Can you still imagine in every detail what the difference between a volunteer, an intern, a harvest helper, a seasonal kidney and an au pair girl and, for example, a border walker is? – No, because within these groups there are again differences that may have some factual justification, but can be clearly seen from the example described today in the “curier” – as you can see. [[Abg. Riepl: And a border guard!]] If in Austria people – whether they are harvest workers or persons employed in assembly – receive hourly wages of € 3 or even € 1.25, then I have to say, especially when considering the special conditions of this employment, that de facto working conditions exist in us, as we otherwise only know them from third world countries! There are such employment relationships with us – and that is scandalous! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You cannot go there, ladies and gentlemen, and say, as Mr Donabauer has said, that we have the labour market under control. - Nothing you've got under control! [[Abg. Donabauer: Abuse!]] There are thousands of people in our country who are legally employed under completely unacceptable conditions! In detail, it will be very difficult – depending on the situation of competence; I could also tell you all kinds of things, but my speaking time is the same – to clarify this. The Foreign Employment Act, with the additional provisions included in it, is really not aid, but it will only continue to do so. I can therefore only take up the appeal that a previous speaker has already made and say: Look You agree with us on this law and other legal provisions to do so! Let us see that we simplify this, that we clarify the competence situation, that we allow effective control, a control which is not guaranteed under the current legal provisions!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23226	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23248	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to make an amendment to the current Foreign Employment Act, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] What is the point of this amendment, ladies and gentlemen? – The current law contained a point that always included a criticism of the Council of Europe against Austria that foreign workers, regardless of the length of their employment in Austria, were at risk of early dismissal in the case of sad working conditions or short-time work. Since 1993, there has been a dead right, so to speak, through equality after one year of employment and after a legal stay in Austria, in many areas, so to speak, so that it is only useful and appropriate to make further efforts, through this amendment, to release workers who have been brought to Austria for the first time and during the period of one year, and then to keep all other employees, i.e. the Austrians and those workers who have been in Austria for more than a year, in employment and thus prevent short-time work. We are taking this on a path that is also going on and going on in Switzerland and other countries in Europe, and have, as I believe, taken into account the many years of criticism of the Council of Europe and, at the same time, in economically difficult situations, indicated to those workers who have been employed on the Austrian labour market for years, that their employment is important for us and for the future of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23336	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Chief, Mag. Tancsits is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The following speech was made to the Federal Minister: Dr. Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23360	Mr President. High house! As Mr Donabauer has already pointed out, it is an essential objective of this amendment to the Ausländerbehördungsgesetz (A foreign employment law) to bring about an addition to foreign law, something which will still come to the plenary session here. It is about coordinating the duration of residence and employment rights according to the principle: no permanent access to the labour market without permanent establishment! Or simply say: Whoever wants to work here must also be there legal! It is therefore a reasonable thing to vote better than before. It is also a matter of bringing important directives into force, namely directives of the European Union on family integration, the law of citizens and their family members. It also concerns the implementation of the Directive on the legal status of long-term third-country nationals. I acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen – even if this is not always pleasant – that my house and I have implemented the necessary legislative change restrictively in our proposals in the government template. This also applies to the passage and facts of the circle of third-country nationals of Union citizens entitled to free movement. It is absolutely necessary and EU law to extend this free movement to parents and parents-in-law, but we do so only for those people who move to Austria – but not for those who have already been there. One could interpret this as domestic discrimination, but I do not. In any case: From our point of view, there could be a possibility of thousands, if not thousands of parents and parents-in-law from third countries, and that cannot be our concern. This is both labour market policy and otherwise not good or acceptable. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of Mr Leutner is not comprehensible. It is true that, in view of the needs of agriculture and, ultimately, tourism, the number of seasonal quotas has been increased since 1999. However, it is also worth noting – and that is what you have missed, honourable Member Leutner – that in the last two years we have reduced these quotas, partly in agreement with the economic circles concerned, by about 10 percent each. In other words, we take account of developments in the labour market. And so, of course, we are responding to the realities of the labour market. Mr. Oellinger said something to the harvest workers and to the assembly work. – To this end: Mr Ollinger evidently referred to a report from the “Wiener Zeitung”. – We have had this checked, and according to our initial information and knowledge, the AMS is finally treated with harvest helpers as planned. These are first impressions and information, and I assume that further reviews will also confirm this impression. As for assembly helpers who were obviously not treated in the right way on the grounds of a very renowned Austrian company, especially not paying, the AMS responded very quickly and withdrew confirmations of posting. In my view, this is a completely correct and very rapid response to a obvious abuse that has occurred there. But, apart from this example, there has been a review that is essentially all right. In other cases, there has been a review, that has been found to be not in order, and there have been appropriate response steps on the part of the AMS. From these examples, I think, one can conclude that the experts of the AMS and the authorities have a good grip on the situation in this relationship, in the best sense of the word. I have heard the amendment tabled by the Head of Parliament, and I have heard the interpretation of the honourable Member, and we too will now look at it very quickly. I understand the basic intention pursued by the honourable Member in this amendment. As far as I can follow this, Hohes Haus.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23422	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23443	Minister! High house! My previous speakers have already said that there are a number of positive points in the amendment to the Foreign Employment Act, which cannot be seen separately from the entire foreign law package. Positive is certainly the unlimited authorisation for eligible and recognised refugees. This is an important contribution to the integration of these people. And certainly, access to the labour market in family integration is positive, so that family members get the same status as the merging one. On the critical points it is to be said that, in our view, the constitutional discrepancies between members of EEA citizens and members of Austrians, Mr. Minister, have already been relevated by the VfGH and the VfGH have said that there is no objective justification for the poor position of members of Austrians in relation to members of EEA citizens. So to what extent this will hold is another question. The second is the changes to § 60 NAG, where my colleague Mr Leutner has already pointed out that the compromise, which has been reached and which is portable, has prevented the labour market from being flooded with workers of the Scheinsel, and in our view we still do not fully understand how the labour market service should control this in practice. On the one hand, the staff is missing. It was rather shortened in the labour market service by the new personnel plans. On the other hand, there is also a lack of an implementing directive on how the opinions can be drawn up. So there are still many unresolved problems in this context. Last but not least, because Mr Donabauer has also addressed the issue of seasonals or the other fragmented employment relations which are part of your labour market policy: It is true that there was a reduction last year, but overall the number of seasonal kidneys has increased from 1999 to today to 33 600. This is an increase of 173 percent. If Mr Donabauer has said that there are no workers here in Austria, you have to say: Then you have to pay them better, because by 1 € you cannot accept such a job in Austria if you want to live and survive by the standard of living that exists in Austria. This must also be pointed out. This mood and anxiety should be kept apart accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23479	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23501	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, the revision of the Foreign Employment Act in connection with the Foreign Law Package should be decided. We also implement a number of EU rules. There have already been many positive points, and I would like to take a brief look at them. In addition to the family integration scheme, I believe that a very important and very positive point is the harmonisation of residence and employment permits. I very much welcome this harmonisation, because, as the Federal Minister has already done, the duration of residence and employment rights can be better coordinated in future than before. In the future, constellations will simply be excluded, according to which a foreigner or a foreigner can acquire permanent access to the labour market without having a permanent right of establishment. This is particularly positive in the sense of the workers concerned. I therefore very much agree with the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23531	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23552	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leutner, in your speech you have presented many positive improvements. That's why I'm a little surprised you said here that you won't agree. [[Abg. Silhavy: He did not mention your amendment!]] Yeah, it's been enforced a lot. I do not understand the criticism of Mr Oillinger. Mr Oellinger, you said it was unclear whether it was border workers, harvest workers, seasonal kidneys or much more. You know very well that there is a quota scheme. As part of this quota arrangement, the AMS with the union and the Chamber of Labour is looking at exactly what is needed. Everyone who is in a body of the Chamber of Workers is quite sure that there is also a close look at the committees, what is right or what is needed. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] It is very important, as I believe, to facilitate access to the labour market for family members from third countries, to improve the right of residence, but at the same time to more accurate control of reporting obligations on the labour market, with the foreign police, so as not to introduce illegals. It is also important to me that, in the labour market, people with employment permits or key forces who are needed still have priority. I believe that this law has taken another right step for the workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23595	The next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. 2 minutes welcome. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23616	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The borders within Europe have fallen, and as a result of the enlargement of the European Union, internal mobility has become a normal case. The progressive globalisation of markets is much more pressing the question of immigration into the EU and its rules, especially labour market regulation. Despite the relatively difficult labour market situation in Austria, the German Government has presented a courageous and humanitarian proposal with this government template, so that the labour market integration of foreigners and their families in Austria can also be achieved. With the present synchronization of residence rights and employment rights, we have achieved the goal that all people who legally reside in our country can earn their living here too. And that's good. For example, family members of third-country citizens are entitled to an employment right after a year to the extent of the person they have pursued. In future, asylum seekers and asylum seekers with subsidiary deportation protection will automatically have free access to the labour market as well as recognised asylum seekers. Especially in times with a difficult labour market situation, it is particularly responsible to deal with the instrument of admission to the labour market. Integration requires much to be done at all levels of the state, the economy, the immigrants and the host society. That is why we must create clear rules for all, and we have done so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23650	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23671	Mr President. I would just like to make a brief comment on the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs, Mr President and Mr Tancsits. I think this amendment is the main amendment, Tancsits is just as illegal as the main proposal mentioned above. Even if this application is aimed only at granting employment, i.e. at short-term employment, this employment permit may nevertheless be equally affected by EEA citizens; and EEA citizens on this rule of law, so to speak, prohibit the right to work here, in the event that short-time work is in place – then they should be terminated – I consider that to be excluded. That's what I wanted to talk about. I would also be interested – the Federal Minister has expressed himself relatively cryptically to this amendment – as he sees this matter. This is stated in Litera b: “of short-time work within the meaning of the Labour Market Promotion Act before its introduction, the employment of foreigners should be solved if this would prevent short-term work in the longer term. ” So apart from the fact that this is already quite hateful in language, if short-time work is to be prevented in the longer term, I think it is unthinkable that, in the case of agreed short-time work, foreigners – whether EEA citizens or other third-country nationals – will be cancelled at first! This has been decreed here: This is not appropriate in the sense of EU law! As in the main request: I don't think you're gonna get very far with that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23713	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1011 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Chief, Mag. Mr Tancsits, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Chief, Mag. Tancsits, ladies and gentlemen. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The approval shall be granted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:01:59]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (972 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Civil Employment Law, the Employment Law, the Foreign Employment Act, the Income Tax Act 1988 as well as the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act 1957 (1012 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23772	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mrs Riener. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23804	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of this amendment is to create clearly defined protection provisions for workers who are sent or left by their employer who do not have their registered office in Austria. Workers are included in the holiday funding process. For employers, however, there is an obligation to pay wages, which must be brought into court on account of their enforceability abroad. It also regulates the payment of the holiday fee directly to the employee. Social security contributions shall be made to the foreign social security institutions and taxation shall be carried out domestically. Comparable facilities abroad are taken into account in terms of mutual recognition. In addition, the conversion of the payment period to the calendar month for a day-by-day payment in this novel is planned. Simplifications are made in this innovation in the administration by the withdrawal of the holiday and handling card... [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23837	I would ask the speaker not to turn his back!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23853	... and is replaced by a quarterly employee information. The e-buak project allows, inter alia, the processing of applications or other over the Internet. The amendment to the Workers' Leave Act provides that a copy of the notification of the building workers' leave and handling fund is to be transmitted in the future in the case of construction activities. It is also established that the remuneration and working hours must not only be adjusted in accordance with the collective contract, but also in accordance with the rules laid down by law in the holding, as applicable in the holding. In the long term, jobs should not be threatened by easier financial viability, but should be safeguarded by equal conditions of quality and fair competition. This is particularly important for social peace in a company, in the sense of the ÖAAB.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23892	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23913	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will be pleased to agree to this government proposal because it is essentially an agreement between the social partners and in the content – my predecessor has already suggested it – it is the implementation of the Entrepreneur's Directive through the inclusion of posted or transferred construction workers in the holiday-skassen procedure of the building workers' holiday and treatment fund and, in particular, the conversion of the payment period to the calendar month. There are some other improvements – my previous speaker has already made them. We will therefore be pleased to agree to this proposal. It is particularly gratifying, ladies and gentlemen, that with an amendment, you have changed the intensities in the labour market law, with regard to the posting of qualified staff in the nursing sector as well as of care workers, because you have addressed our criticism points in the course of this discussion. Otherwise, the Employment Law would not have been applicable to this sector of persons. We are also particularly pleased that you – and this is very important – have also come close to our amendment, because this amendment is the reason why this Labour Force Transfer Act also applies to the category of persons mentioned by you. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23950	Now, Mr. Deputies is coming. Walch to speak. 3 minutes welcome. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23971	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers have said, this is the protection for workers who are being sent abroad. That is, as I mean, very important and correct, both for workers and for the economy. The employee does not lose the holiday allowance, it is precisely regulated in the building worker's holiday and handling fund – where I am in it as a construction worker – and that is, I believe, correct and important. First of all, he receives the corresponding information, second, the employer has to calculate the supplements on a daily basis, and secondly, there is a change in the payment period from four to five weeks. – I believe that this is an important law in the sense of the workers and also of the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e23995	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Member for his excellent report. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24017	Mr President, I am not going to have to take advantage of this! – I do not understand the euphoria in part because of adapting to an EU directive – and in so far as Mr Walch is concerned, I do not understand it at all: We are following this up on something that is set out to us – but in some cases there are further national provisions, which we of course accept – after they have also been agreed with social partners. In this sense, we will also agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24041	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. She's got 2 minutes of welcome. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24062	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendment to the Civil Employment and Processing Act not only implements the European Entrepreneurship Directive, but also creates a level playing field for the future, because in the future, employers who are based abroad, who send workers to Austria to work here, are obliged to pay the same pay increases to pay like a domestic company. In the event of a return, the holiday fee must be paid directly to the workers. A hard core should be formed with defined protection provisions for cross-border posted and left-over workers. This hard core also includes paid minimum leave. We very much welcome this on the part of the economy. Our small and medium-sized enterprises are used to hard competition. Competition is good and important, but it must be fair.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24099	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24120	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This directive creates orderly conditions for temporary workers and, above all, it is against wage dumping. Since my constituency and my home district of Schärding are a border region, I am pleased with any measure that brings more fairness and justice to cross-border competition. It is particularly important to me to stress that the employer established abroad is obliged to guarantee legal or collective working conditions when sending to Austria. It is therefore another important step towards the creation of equal conditions of competition for our businesses and, of course, the related jobs. Implementation should in particular ensure that there is no disadvantage for service providers. It has already been mentioned: The Entrepreneurship Directive pays the leave fee directly to the employee. It is therefore an important directive both within the meaning of our businesses and within the meaning of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24157	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1012 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – Consent is unanimous. The law was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall immediately reach the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I also ask for a corresponding sign. – At third reading, the draft law was adopted unanimously and thus adopted. [[21:11:26]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (946, p._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Insolvency Insurance Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (1010 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24209	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate is opened by Mrs Steibl. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24236	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill brings adaptations to the Insolvency Reimbursement Act. The novelle is used to fix the financing of the apprenticeship training premium from the insolvency fund. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This change of law points out that temporary service conditions will not lead to the use of the corridor board against the will of those concerned. I hope that all parties agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24310	The amendment tabled by Mrs Steibl has just been tabled by the honourable Member. Tancsits, Mag. The President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government paper 946 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report on 1010 of the Supplements is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. It also wishes 3 minutes of speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24335	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would really like to thank the government groups for having found our suggestions – although we have not conducted any negotiations but still – in your amendment. Although the original version did not correspond to our ideas, the inclusion of our suggestions now – and I say this quite honestly now – allows us to give the entire proposal the consent. They know that we would have wanted a wider and bigger solution. We will make an appropriate amendment which will present our exact position, but we will nevertheless also agree to this proposal. The SG-Novelle is essentially an adaptation to the EU insolvency directive, with a view to including the members of the institutions of a legal person called for their legal representation to the executives and employees in the circle of the entitled persons on IAG. I should like to add one point, Mr Federal Minister, that we have already discussed this in committee: There is a three-month difference between October and the contribution benefit from 1. January 2006. They have justified this with budgetary problems. It is not quite clear to me, but as I said, I would like to address it here again. And the second point that we would have liked to see is that the workers-like persons, if they are insured in the country, will be recorded. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but as has been said, we welcome the fact that the continuation of the apprenticeship premium is at least defined as a measure. I would like to stress once again that we do not believe that it is the optimal incentive to train apprentices, otherwise we would not have the situation that the apprenticeship gap is increasing, but I think it is important to put a signal towards youth. We would like to see more signals, stronger signals, because youth unemployment is certainly one of the worst problems facing a country, a state and, above all, the people concerned. However, as we have said, we will try once again to formulate our presentation of what we really want in the area of unemployment insurance in a separate amendment, but will now give our assent in the form of the amendment tabled by Mr Steibl.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24375	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24396	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Insolvency Insurance Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 are amended to include: New arrangements will now be introduced to regulate the wealth of the employer abroad at bankruptcy openings as follows: First: In-land employment, main insolvency proceedings in the EU-Ausland or secondary insolvency proceedings or insolvency proceedings in a State outside the EEA, definition of the competent office of IAF-Service GmbH, measures to avoid abusive use of IAG, and in addition, due to the amendment request, an improvement in the right to corridor pension for those workers who have left the holding before the insolvency procedure enters. These will not be disadvantaged by having to go to a slightly less favourable corridor pension in accordance with the current legal situation, but an improvement is taking place here. Overall, this is a draft that we agree with, and I am also pleased that there has finally been a four-party agreement on this subject in the social field.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24433	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24454	Mr President. High house! I expressly welcome the positive development in and since the Committee and believe that the common concern has been and is to ensure the voluntary accession of early retirement to the Corridor Board and to be able to grant unemployment or emergency aid for the non-estimable period of one year in the event of fulfilment of the conditions for the reference of a Corridor Board. In the end, however, it is about the conditions under which the employment relationship has been terminated and how it looks with voluntaryness. And that's where consensus was found. Thank you for that! As for Mrs Silhavy's comment: These are not budgetary reasons, but accounting reasons for the paying-in undertakings. We believe that this advance of two or three months is meaningful and necessary. Dr. Leutner, you have commented in writing since the Committee meeting on relatively complex issues, insolvency of a company, for example in Switzerland. I hope my house could answer your questions. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24487	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He wants to talk for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24509	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just a short while to describe our position. This is also the implementation of an EU directive. We agree with her – it does not leave us much else either. The national design scope is given. In this case, we are satisfied with the way in which it has been regulated. As regards the position of the Greens on the contributions of the Apprenticeship Training Fund, I have already stated in the Committee: Yes, we agree, but we are far from satisfied that here again – but that is in this case. not negative – to be taken from a fund to finance a premium that we are convinced that it is not suitable for itself to solve the problems in the employment of younger people – and these are not only apprentices, but also those who have completed a teaching or other training relationship. We are dealing with a serious problem here. In recent years, training conditions for those who have already completed training are increasingly being devalued by longer unemployment. The Federal Government's proposal does not, of course, answer this problem. This is not an accusation yet, but I note on this occasion that we will have to think of it a little more than once again a fire brigade action, in order to provide at least a little more resources in the field of apprenticeship training than would otherwise be the case. As far as the other amendments are concerned, we also have no objection to the involvement of senior staff. The only objection I have raised is: I could have imagined a lot more than the proposed extension of the exclusion grounds of senior employees. The Federal Minister has already stated in the Committee that, for example, for the reasons I have remembered, I do not believe that insolvency proceedings, such as the case of infidelity, cannot be expected to happen only as such. I take note of this, but I am still not quite convinced that this is enough. But that's what it's supposed to be. I cannot imagine, in order to make it clear, that people who have mistrusted money in a farm, but in which the fraudulent Krida also comes to receive funds from an insolvency fund. If this is ever the case, then we have a debate, and we are right to have this debate. That was the only critical remark. Otherwise, we can also live with the proposed amendments to the corridor board, although we do not think they are yet sufficiently large enough, and will therefore agree to the proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24557	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24578	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the short term, two points. On the one hand, this amendment also introduces the unemployment insurance law, which is equivalent to a justified early retirement of a termination. So far, the rule was that a unemployed person who had rightly been released could obtain unemployment benefit or emergency aid for up to a year, while a unemployed person who had been entitled to early retirement was forced into the corridor board. In the interests of our older workers and the fair treatment of the unemployed, this change should, of course, be supported. On the other hand – the second point – an adaptation of the apprenticeship training premium will be discussed and coordinated in this context. In order to continue to face youth unemployment successfully, our government ensures that the funds for the apprenticeship training premium are permanently made available from the insolvency fund. So two important measures both for our younger workers and for our older workers. I would therefore ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24611	Mr Keck is now speaking to us for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24632	Mr President. Minister! High house! It has not even been a full year since you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, decided on a pension harmonisation and numerous accompanying measures, which we have already criticised not only as unsocial, but also as unfair and in large part even as unequalistic. At that time, like today, you fought. Even the reference to easily understood problems has been pushed aside to get out of your negative headlines as quickly as possible. The fact that you have not fixed the social emergency that your actions cause is clearer today than ever. Because today it's like it's been the case more often: It needs to be repaired. Again we have to deal with the mistakes, and again you have managed to lead the citizens of our country to see how negligently you deal with the social security of our people. In the case of the completely unsuccessful regulation of § 22 para. 1 of the Unemployment Insurance Act is of course the same. Today, we need to repair, and we have to repair that, as of now, there is freedom of choice between corridor board and a phase of job search for solutions during the probationary period and for solutions in temporary service relationships. They therefore welcome our criticism that we have been practicing in this context a year ago. But now, again, you exclude some, ladies and gentlemen: All those who have to leave a job for reasons of mobbing, health, or family reasons are still punished by this law. This is unfair, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this amendment so that we do not have to make a repair of this law in the foreseeable future!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24702	The amendment tabled by Mr Keck by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, colleagues and colleagues on the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template concerning a federal law amending the Insolvency Insurance Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. She wishes 2 minutes of speech. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24730	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In the future, GesmbH CEOs and senior employees will also receive insolvency payments under this Insolvency Insurance Act, provided they are employed as employees. In addition, a scheme shall be made for employees who have been sent abroad to carry out their activities. An important safeguard and a necessary measure! I am pleased that the Chamber of Commerce has succeeded in implementing a request from the Court of Auditors, namely the withdrawal of the absolute limitation of the need for recovery. Insolvency payments, which have been wrongly received, must always be recoverable. Ladies and gentlemen, a detail must not be mentioned: The 1 000 € apprenticeship premium is guaranteed! This apprenticeship premium has proved to be excellent. The implementation of the budget is now to be continued indefinitely. This shows that we take youth employment seriously, we ensure that every young person looking for a training place also finds one. The apprenticeship premium is part of it. In addition, measures such as the creation of apprenticeship acquirers or professional orientation measures are also needed. It is truly gratifying that the countless measures taken by the Federal Government have led the number of apprentices to increase again in the first year of education in 2004, by 1.4 percent to almost 36,000 apprentices. Ladies and gentlemen! Our companies are currently training 120,000 apprentices. These give young people a training and thus a future. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24770	Mrs Scharer is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24791	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Insolvency Insolvency Insurance Act is to be welcomed in the sense of securing managing directors and senior employees. However, the development of the labour market shows that more and more people are working in atypical employment conditions. New entrants and older unemployed people often only have the opportunity to find work on contracts or free service contracts. Many do not voluntarily choose these atypical jobs. There are many companies that put pressure on employees to find employment. in order to continue working as a free servant. Consider also the shelf caregivers, who are mainly active as new self-employed. There are some 227,000 minor employees in Austria, including 160,000 women, 25,000 free employees and some 34,000 officially registered new self-employed persons. The trend is rising. In the event of the inability of the employers, these employees are not insured. If, on the basis of your labour market policy, people are pushed into such precarious employment conditions, the minimum requirement, ladies and gentlemen, would be to the government that these employees are at least as secure as managing directors and executives who deserve a multiple of the mentioned groups. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but should be taken into account in future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24831	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall vote on the draft law in 1010 of the Supplements. Mr Silhavy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Tancsits, Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on Article 2(3). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request for a sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Mr Tancsits, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, also tabled an amendment to Article 2(3). If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. . This request is approved unanimously and is therefore accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is done unanimously. The draft law was adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is done unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:33:55]] 14. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (968 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, with which the Water Law Act 1959, the Feed law 1999, the Fertilizer Act 1994, the Health and Food Safety Act, the BFW Act, the Plant Protection Act 1995, the Plant Protection Principle Act, the Wine Law 1999, the Land Constitution Law 1951, the Principle Law 1951 on the treatment of forest and pasture use rights and special field services, the Forestry Act 1975 and the Land and Forestry Law on Service Law (Agrarian Law 2005) (1018 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (862d.b._Other Organiser Convention on the European Forestry Institute (1021d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24926	We shall now proceed to points 14 and 15 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. The rapporteur on both points is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. In order to submit a print error correction to the committee report 1018 distributed in writing, I give the floor to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24947	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template 968 of the Supplements: Agro-Law Change Act 2005, 1018 of the Supplements, I submit the following print error correction: In Article 11 of the amendment to the Forestry Act 1975, the numbering of the amendment to § 105 para. 1a correct “5” instead of “3” as well as the point designation concerning the amendment of § 185 para. 3 correct ‘6’ instead of ‘4’.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24972	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. The debate opens up to Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. His welcome time is 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e24996	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The rapporteur's correction does not change the quality of the law either. It remains a herb and beet law. [[Abg. Grill: What are these expressions?]] It goes across the whole legislation, without any factual context – once again a method to carry out concealment, because if you are to negotiate everything in one through feed law, fertiliser law, wine law, forest law, law of law of law, teacher law and so on, then, I believe, that is not the right parliamentary way. [[Abg. Neudeck: What are the teachers: the herb or the beetroot?]] Hineingetan you have in this law, as has been so often, of course also the water law law, and I claim that this water law law is only in it so that you do not see the poison teeth. Ladies and gentlemen! The Water Law Act dates back to 1959. It is a matter law that was exemplary, useful and strict. [[Abg. Neudeck: So I don't understand that you mix the water law with the wine law!]] There were then 15 novels of the water law law law in 40 years – and then came blue-black, and in the years 2000 to 2005 there is already the eleventh novel of the water law law! [[Abg. Scheibner: There's something going on!]] In other words, repeatedly to avoid disconcerting this really good law over and over again in order to stop breaking through. Ladies and gentlemen! What's going on now? - For years, we've been talking about the nitrate. You're looking for another way to water the nitrate layer on the fields, too... – What does "ha, ha, ha" mean? We now suddenly have the introduction of the limit values, which we avoid due to the loss of storage and storage. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] These storage and storage losses are not defined by law. In any case, it will determine: 10 percent – or can it be a little more? In the case of groundwater itself, for example from the March field, which is sprayed on the fields, it is not taken into account: At 80 milligrams, colleague Schultes, very little nitrate is available, and 50 millimeters is not very much, there are 10 kilograms of pure nitrogen. – Essentially more realistic are 100 milligrams and 200 to 250 millimeters in sugar beet, and there we are already at 40 to 50 kilograms of nitrogen, which you simply and simply do not consider. Ladies and gentlemen! Even the farming chamber of Styria knows that. ==References== 6th, four days after the Committee, it was necessary to read: “Agriculture as an important implementation in the work of a successful groundwater protection seems at present insufficient to fulfil its tasks and thus lose its competence.” – Landeswirtschaftskammer Styria! The Chamber of Agriculture is entitled to: This law is a shame, and we will not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25078	Mr Grillitsch is now speaking to us for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25100	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the essential elements of the innovations that take place in the framework of the Agricultural Law Change Act is the revision of the Water Law Act, and I say quite honestly to you: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer talks to Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing, who is sitting on the government bank. Pröll]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] It is not about creating an additional burden on the environment now, but about offering practical solutions for our farmers in international competition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are trying to find practical solutions in the field of environmental protection, and you, Mr. Kummerer, are then talking about a “damage” in this law, this shows that you are not interested in providing farmers with practical solutions. I would like to hold this very firmly and clearly here today. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Who understands this if today the use of economic fertilizers is allowed only up to 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare per year, based on the requirements of the EU Nitrates Directive? Furthermore, the need could only be met by the use of trade fertilizers. – It is understandable to no human being. This has led to a bad situation for the Austrian farmers, which has also led to a sustainable economy of the farmers – and that the farmer does not understand that, I think, it is logical. We want to eliminate these horrors with the amendment of this water law law law, under clearly defined conditions. The Nitrates Directive provides that: the maximum quantities of fertiliser prescribed may be diverted by the European Commission after verification by a Member State’s application. There are already a number of countries, such as Denmark, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria, which have also started a process in this field, and a legal basis for national anchoring such an exception is now being established, on the basis of which the Nitrate Action Programme can subsequently be modernised. In this sense I may ask you: In this law, don’t talk about a “barrage”, but help you find a regulation here, which means less bureaucracy for the farmers, where farmers have the opportunity to use their own economic fertiliser, and not be forced to buy additional commercial fertilizers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25166	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25187	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grillitsch has tried here to somehow clarify what it is all about. [[Abg. Zweytick: He said the truth!]] Mr Grillitsch, it is a disgrace for groundwater protection in Austria – and this is where Mr Kummerer is right – because the argumentation chain you have spread in the “farming newspaper” is simply incredible! [[Abg. Grill: A shame is what you are doing!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr Pirklhuber, it is a shame what you are saying! A shame is what you're doing to the peasants...!]] From a technical point of view, it is totally incredible when you speak of cattle farmers as those who simply need these increases, because they have the economic fertilizer and, in order for them to be able to grow, they have to carry out them. Every specialist knows that nitrogen fertilisers in the Greenland, with a higher amount of effort – and I assume that cattle farmers have Greenland – lead to a complete union of the flora. This means that the important legumes, the clover and all that is important and for nature, for the soil, for the farmers is good, so that the more they are fertilized. So, Mr Grillitsch, once again, when you propose to the cattle farmers to obtain derogations,... [[Call the ÖVP: In which areas?]] In which areas? – They speak of the Alps: Well, that's exactly the areas where we need to take groundwater protection measures, where we must not avoid them. [[Call to the ÖVP: Which areas are these?]] And one thing is quite clear: We have so far followed a line where 90 percent of the areas in the Austrian environmental programme were inside, and the basis of the ÖPUL in the management were two livestock units and about 170 kilos of nitrogen from economic and commercial fertilisers. So far, that's a fact. With this legislation on water law, they create a derogation for eight to ten percent – potentially – of agriculture, in reality for very few farms. And we strongly reject that, ladies and gentlemen. That's incredible, that's totally incredible what you're doing here! And you do this for a few farmers – and not for agriculture. You have to be very clear about this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: You're talking about the color like the blind!]] Nevertheless, Mr Grillitsch, we will not be tempted to reject everything in the form of a bow. At second reading, we will agree with some correct improvements contained in the 2005 Agricultural Law Change Act, although quite a bit of a headshake, but in the matter yourself you will go the right way in terms of public participation in the Land Constitutional Act or also in the field of forest and pasture use. [[Abg. Grillisch: Now I believe that's a shame!]] The possibilities to find appropriate solutions here, that environmental organisations will be involved in the future, that environmental impact assessment is possible, and that the transport groups, the environmental lawyer, the communities and the population are also involved, are considered to be a practical solution. We shall also vote in favour of this part at second reading. But finally put one thing down: that you advocate good and right corrective measures with very decisive deterioration into a collective law! This kind of collective legislative novels is simply unreasonable, and you should stop that. A matter like the water law law does not belong to this! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25307	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 3 minutes welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25338	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use my speech on this item on the agenda to make it clear that our group will, of course, agree to this law because many good and important points are included in it. Secondly, as in the Committee, I would like to ask the Federal Minister and ask him to examine the possibility for those parts of the Federal Republic of Germany, where there is drought damage or drought damage, perhaps to open up these ruptures and these eco strips, in order to give farmers the opportunity to get cheap food to minimize the effects of any crop losses, without the cost of a lot of money, in order not to say that it is actually free. And thirdly, I find it fascinating to look at my colleagues, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Pirklhuber, and to remember how intensively we discussed in committee how important it would have been for you to discuss these things in public – we had a long, fundamental discussion about how important it would be to discuss this in plenary because there would be so many people sitting in the gallery and listening to the agricultural policy –: If I look at the number of spectators present today, I have to say: More members were present in the Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25369	Mr Faul is now speaking. His speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25390	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Scheuch! I think you could have said something about the Agro-Law Change Act, precisely from the situation that you in Carinthia, from this dimension of water law, which Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Kummerer have shown, have really faced enormous threats at the moment. I am talking about the closure of a kindergarten in Volksmarkt, I am talking about Krumpendorf and the contamination of water supplies there. And it has been found that fertilisers, fecals from animal breeding and from the export of animals to nearby areas were the contaminants. [[Abg. Eder: Water distress in Carinthia!]] And I think you can't go so carelessly over it, but you should work on the law using such examples and think about things, Minister. And a second story, Mr. Federal Minister, shortly: Even if you have demented it, but this problem, Piber, is a Styrian problem for us, I have to tell you that. And even if you say there's nothing going away, things are coming – I've really been talking to colleague Grossmann today: They want to get rid of the breeding book there. Breeding book away is called know-how away, breeding away, foaling away. [[Abg. Amon: One observes,... “Expert”!]] They want to redimensional these businesses. [[Abg. Neudeck: You should talk to competent people!]] “Redimension” means – that is, you really have to keep in mind, dear friends who are also active in the agricultural field – that you want to take away the job in Piber outside the poor people who have €950 net. With these people who don't get anything out anyway, you want to save! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: A cheaper campaign gag!]] No, that's not an election gag, that's your election campaign, Federal Minister. And if you're talking about pumping in millions of euros today, that's the same dirt as at the Semmering Base Tunnel, Fritz, that's the same dirt as the Spielberg-Schmäh. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] We don't believe that anymore! This is a cheaper campaign, Minister of State. We are convinced that nothing will happen until the election and that, after the election, we must fear what I have announced to you. And I think that's where you need to build up in time. Mr Federal Minister, if you look at the dimension of Lipizzans in Austria, you have to say that these belong to a location, they do not belong to one another. And if you're still like that, maybe it's just a shot in front of the bow. We want to keep the Lipizzans in the Styria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25489	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25525	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A Agricultural Law Change Act is in place and brings about changes and legal certainty in several areas of the agricultural economy. For example, the feed law is also amended. EU feed law lays down a reporting obligation for all feed business operators as well as an obligation to register or authorise by the Authority. This affects companies from production to feeding. It will be new for the European Food Safety Authority to put in place the application and review in the future, creating uniform requirements in all EU Member States. The authorities must take into account existing data collection systems when reporting and registering in the future. The reporting agents must therefore only provide additional information. This legislative amendment establishes a legal basis for the merging of data on agricultural holdings. New surveys and new reports are thus avoided, for example in the case of pig and cattle registration, there has long been the possibility of data exchange. In my view, this is going towards less bureaucracy. A non-implementation would result in an increase in the burden on farms. Furthermore, a complaint by the Commission would also be expected. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian farmers need legal certainty. They are feed producers and feeders. The amendments to the feed law shall also lay down detailed rules for the application of feed hygiene. I consider it very positive that there are specific exceptions here, for example for own consumption and small quantities. Our farmers have been working with agricultural products for decades and know about the need for hygienic work. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of quality and hygiene, we can safely rely on our farmers. I agree with this Agricultural Law Change Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25558	Mrs Resterererer is now speaking. Requested speaking time: 4 minutes, remaining speaking time of your group: 16 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25579	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I want to start with the positive: We very much appreciate the agreement on the European Forest Institute, in recognition of the progress and achievements that have already been achieved. This forest institute is located in Finland. We think this is a very good thing. As far as the law on water law is concerned, I must hold back Mr Eßl, whom I no longer see. [[Call the ÖVP: He's here anyway!]] He apparently does not know where the nitrate pollution problems exist. [[Abg. Prince: Just look, Mrs. Colleague!]] – He's been hiding a little bit, he's gone a little bit now. Nitrate pollution problems are known. It is only necessary to read on the website of our Ministry of Life, for example, why the nitrate load has initially declined, because of the rigorous use of the instruments of water protection and already areas in problem regions. However, according to the 2004 Environmental Control Report, higher values have been measured again in the last two years, so we have come to believe that the nitrate pollution of Austrian groundwater is still too high. The number of areas of observation and forecast action, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has not fallen. Besides, we don't think we can't sit on the one hand and say hot on the other, as you know, dear Franz, as a farmer. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gaál.]] We cannot, on the one hand, reward the measures in the framework of the OPUL, a violation of the values of the directives and, on the other hand, allow outruns! I have to tell you quite honestly, I think it is quite reasonable that the pig breeding grounds are actually being carried out on the back of the cattle farmers, because it is known who is responsible for the high nitrate load in the area of the Tullner Basin, the Alps and in other problem regions. That is why we cannot join and will vote against this new regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25632	Mr Grillitsch spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to remind you of the Rules of Procedure: the fact to be corrected and the correct one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25656	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Faul claimed that the Lipizzans of Piber would get away and be stationed in Lower Austria. It is true that the Lipizzans continue to be stationed in Piber, as before. It is true that a summer quarter has been set up in Lower Austria with Lipizzans from the court riding school. And it is true that now in Piber additional €1.2 million will be invested for tourist use.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25691	This was a mixture between actual correction and information. The next speaker is Mr Auer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25715	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! So far, I have always felt that the Greens and the SPÖ mandater, who deal with agriculture, are actually putting sustainability at the forefront. On the basis of today's debates, I am not quite sure of that anymore. The decisive issue, ladies and gentlemen, is that of the law on water law, which is criticized by you, namely at the fertilisation, first of all the time of execution, second, the technique of execution. For example, in Upper Austria, an example could be taken where the towing hose distribution of the manure is supported. That's certainly what I'm looking for. And thirdly, I'm always very happy: The whole world wants Austrian water, but if I sit here, I just hear that's so bad, that's not feasible, it's not sellable. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There are 200 000 people who...!]] So far, you have always, and rightly so far, pointed out that the principle of absolute unanimity must be maintained in the case of EU decisions so that Austrian water cannot be damaged abroad. At the same time, you tell us, it's so bad. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This measure is so bad! She's going in the wrong direction!]] The whole world wants Austrian water! Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, the question should also be asked: Has the water become better or worse since 1990 – I have been a representative since that time? The answer can be given by the consumers! It has become much better, thanks to the exemplary management of our areas. With regard to feed law, it is necessary to lay down: Yes, control is supposed to be, but one should not and should not compare small farmers with feed factories and not create instruments that will almost motivate them to exit from this production. In fact, we should make checks where they are necessary. Records for every small business are not very useful. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we should sometimes consider whether certain proposals come from people who want agriculture or from those who have to live from agriculture. There we should actually think about it or something!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25765	Mrs Schönpass is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25797	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor of a rural community, I am also responsible for the health of our citizens. This means, for me, that I also pay particular attention to the protection of our environment in a region characterized by agriculture. The way in which agriculture is operated has a direct impact on the environment. And the state of our environment has a direct impact on the health of our people. Let us take a look at the example of drinking water! [[Abg. Prince: How does it look like in Ampflwang?]] In principle, our drinking water is characterised by high quality, with one exception: nitrate values. The required thresholds are already exceeded. You can read this in the Austrian Water Quality Report, by the way, this one comes from your resort, Minister. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Can we have your water?]] With nitrate pollution, cancer risk for people is also increasing in the long term, Mr Auer. [[Abg. Prince: How does it look like in Ampflwang?]] I'm sorry, but it is. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: The water findings of Ampflwang, please!]] A further evaporation or watering of the limit values is not acceptable to our population. You can still bet against that. What we need to protect our environment and our citizens in this country is stricter directives and better controls on the nitrate pollution of our drinking water. But what comes, instead, with the law now in place, is exactly the opposite: Compliance with nitrogen levels should be softened. More nitrogen-containing fertilizers in the soil also mean an increased nitrate load on the groundwater. Once again, you, Mr Pröll, are not able to agree on the two functions you hold. A minister responsible for both agriculture and the environment must be equally well-balanced. This is not the case with you, Mr Minister, unfortunately. We do not join your kneefall before the fertiliser industry!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25891	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25912	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! There are days when I regret that we can't say much with our short speaking times. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right, I regret that too!]] Today, I was sitting here with pain when I listened and had to see how little knowledge of our opposition colleagues in these matters is missing when they talk about agricultural issues. That really hurts! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It hurts what you do!]] I would like to offer you a seminar on plant nutrition, on nutrition dynamics in the soil and on the topic "Wovon are we living?". Then sometime we could sort up the question of nitrate, so that we know there are values, and there is the good quality of our water. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! We have an agricultural law amendment law, which refers to the fact that not only Europe but also Austria is very different. We have committed ourselves to keeping the highest standard possible through the application of the nitrate directive throughout Austria. We see that this creates conditions in individual regions that simply are not adapted to nature and in regions where we are tingling farmers, unnecessary restrictions. There are indeed some regions in the Greenland, and perhaps only 500 farms will be involved, perhaps only 400 which we have actually intervened in this directive. And without harming anyone – but on the contrary, in order to maintain healthy businesses – we now have the freedom in water law to bring the values to the right level regionally. Thank God there is this freedom, and I can only tell you that we are adopting a very good law, the professionals are proud of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25968	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e25989	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am always pleased when Mr. Schulteis goes down, because every time he is behind the speaker's desk, he tells us that he ate the wisdom with the spoon. [[Call the ÖVP:School!]] That always sounds very funny and good, and we have already experienced this for the third or fourth time. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Perhaps a little comment on colleagues Auer. The whole world wants our water, but not the water from the Marchfeld, not the water from the Eferdinger Basin, from Machland or from the lower Enns Valley. Mr Auer, there is an destructive study in which wells have been examined. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Yes, of whom?]] - From the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers. [[Call the ÖVP:Oye!]] [[Abg. Friend: It's red-colored!]] I'll show them to you once: an destructive judgment! It is a dangerous situation, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps two more sentences to amend the Water Law Act, which has already been addressed several times today, and it is really a big problem. Mr Grillitsch spoke of a practical solution. However, a practical solution cannot mean that there will be more nitrates in our groundwater in the future. It can't be! You can't pretend a practical solution, but in the same breath you think our groundwater is getting nitrate. [[Abg. Grill:... didn't understand what it was all about!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We believe that this is simply the wrong way; we think it is a step back. We know that nitrates have been found in our groundwater for 30 years now. Since 1991 there have been comprehensive nitrate data, the problem regions are known to us. However, despite various environmental promotion measures, for example through public transport, there are no positive changes. You see, there has been no evidence of any improvement in our groundwater. I say to you that it is counterproductive if this law is adopted in this way today, that is why we will not give this our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26085	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26106	Mr President. Minister! Mr Wimmer, I have to tell you: If you have been heard here, you can be reminded that Mr Schultes has a lot ahead of you in terms of information and intelligence. I am already looking forward to the next time the colleague comes to this speaker's desk and gives us some of his rich experience for the best. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's a joke!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen. As in the European Regulation on food law, the Regulation on feed law, in particular the feed hygiene Regulation, lays down a reporting obligation for all feed business operators. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Puswald, calm!]] It provides for registration and authorisation, starting with production, transport, storage and processing, to feed by the animal owner, say the farmer. In the course of the current amendment of the feed law, we are expanding the competence of the countries. Where they have been solely responsible for the monitoring of feed for farm animals, they will also be responsible for monitoring the production, processing and storage of feed in the future. An important point for the rural family farms is that the official reporting points are stopped to rely on existing data or collection systems, since any other regulation would also mean an unreasonable red tape for the smallest animal farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... intelligenter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the present legislative matter, it appears once again that we stand by the Austrian People's Party and, in particular, the Austrian Farmers' Federation for an honest and transparent agriculture in the sense of domestic consumers, but without creating unnecessary stones for our farmers. Responsibility and home sense are needed – we perceive them!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26185	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26207	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Sieber! I think it would be good for you to take back your comment on the important intelligence that you may have let go of the excitement to speak here, because I think that would not be the level of an agricultural debate as we are used to in the Committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: What was that?]] Fritz, I'm coming to you too, don't worry! [[Abg. Grill: I'm sorry! That's...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany has said that we are in today's debate in the field of tension between environmentally sound agriculture and its laws. If I have understood it correctly, he has assumed that the EU Nitrates Directive is actually to blame, that we have come so far and that the Water Law Act must now be amended so that it comes to those things that my previous speakers have addressed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We discussed the European Commission's project report at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. We have encouraged him to discuss publicly and bring him to the plenary session, but unfortunately we stayed in the minority. This morning, the Federal Chancellor explained to us how important it is to deal with European issues here. If we had dealt with these issues here and would we have dealt with these issues here, in the plenary session of the National Council, then it would not be possible for Mr Grillitsch from this speaker's point of view, as if the EU Nitrates Directive were responsible for doing something, at the same time knowing that the EU, represented by regional or national ministers, takes these decisions and helps national officials to do so. There is no one who is taking this responsibility from us, neither in this area of justice nor in another. Mr Auer, we have a sustainability concept of the Federal Government, which was decided during this legislative period. We played it through very attentively – read it through, worked on it and discussed it here in the house as well. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: -played or read?]] - Also played through. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Don't be a good player!]] I'm on my playful side. – But, Mr Auer, if you want to explain to me that the constant changes in water law in relation to nitrate pollution are a sustainability, then, dear colleague Auer, I do not understand you either. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Jakob Auer]] So far, I have been convinced that Mr Auer is actually a representative of those who say: The water is important to us, and we must protect it! [[Call the ÖVP:Yes,...!]] We have taken voluntary measures at ÖPUL to protect groundwater in order to protect our drinking water. Since 2000, however, this water law has not been watered down with every novelle, but has worsened – to the detriment of our water quality. Mr. Schultes, you're right: There are on one side the values and on the other side the water. I'll tell you: There are values in Lower Austria and a good water from the Styria. – We will not agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26314	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26336	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to refer briefly to the amendment of the principle of plant protection law, and only to one point. states that the national legislation must provide that plant protection products may only be used as determined and as appropriate. What does that mean? – That means that the active substances are used in a targeted manner, and that requires a suitable delivery technique. There is now a group of experts who have been doing excellent work in the field of application technology for many years, namely the Austrian working group on integrated plant protection or its equipment committee. This Committee shall regularly draw up guidelines for plant protection equipment, and thus shall be inseparable from a name: Professor Dr. Hans Neuurer, whom I would like to thank for his years of commitment to application technology. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Since plant protection equipment is not subject to official testing in Austria before sale, this working group conducts quality testing and awards a quality mark for equipment. This means that the farmer, who buys a plant protection device with a quality mark, can be sure that this device corresponds to the state of the art and enables targeted, environmentally friendly plant protection. Of course, the appropriate and appropriate use also refers to equipment in use. In other words, those devices used under the OPUL 2000 programme will be subject to periodic functional testing at regular intervals. In the last three years, 13 000 devices have been reviewed, which can re-export properly and environmentally friendly plant protection products after this control. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you very much for this package of the Agricultural Law Change Act. Thank you very much also to the employees of your Federal Ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26390	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, Also two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26411	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to comment on another point of the 2005 Agricultural Law Change Act, namely a forestry policy. It's about changing the forest law. This is mainly about adaptations to the new studies of the BOKU, the University of Soil Culture, in particular the continuing studies, which have been conducted as a degree course so far and has now been divided by the amendment in Bakkalaureat and Master's degree. After the six-semester Bakkalaureat, the graduates of Forstadjunkten and thus the graduates of the HBLF in Bruck are equal to the Mur. The Master's degree, which is intended to be a four-semester structure on the Bakkalaureat, will be completed by the students as forest assistants. [[Abg. Dr. Schieder stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] However, these new and arbitrary courses are not laid down in the law but are defined by a regulation. This makes sense, because it also determines core competences. What may not be known to everyone is that forstadjunks and forest assistants still have a state test to complete before they are finished training. This is certainly about changing this somewhat relic form in the next few days. There are already new schemes in planning. I am therefore also in favour of changing or adapting this state examination, since there must be corresponding training places, and they have become partly rare today. If, for example, we compare this with medical students who are guaranteed a gym, but after that no longer have to pass state exams, then I think we will have some adjustments in the near future. The potential in forestry needs to be exploited. The use of forestry staff is also expected, and there our leading businesses – I mean also the Federal Forest – are required to provide training places accordingly. This means that training is worthwhile, and training in the sense of these changes pays off. It makes sense to change the state audit as well, and then such changes of law, as we make them here, are also useful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26472	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Winkler. His speaking time is also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26493	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! This Government template ratifys the Convention on the European Forestry Institute, in short called EFI. Eight countries must agree to enter into force. Six have already agreed, Germany and Austria are now doing so. ==References== The European Forestry Institute, signed in Joensuu in Finland on August 2003, gives it the status of an international organisation. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As a leader, I consider this Convention to be an extremely important international treaty and contribution to the sustainable protection of the forestry and wood industry throughout Europe. The aim of this Convention is indeed to carry out research at pan-European level in the areas of forestry policy, ecology, resources and health of European forests, as well as the wood industry and forestry services in order to promote the sustainable management of European forests.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26523	I would ask you not to turn your back on the speaker constantly! This also applies to club staff!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26545	This contract is thus a milestone in securing the multifunctional achievements of the Austrian and European forests. The importance of cooperation with the EFI has already been recognised by Austria in recent years. I should also like to stress the importance of the international treaty to be ratified by a few figures: Austria has a forest share of more than 47 percent and is thus well above the European average of about 30 percent. With an export value of more than €6 billion, the Austrian forestry and wood industry is the largest foreign exchange bringer after tourism. It is therefore an hour of Austria's accession to the EFI – the European Forestry Institute – to research and development in the field of walnut support and sustainable management throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26584	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Hellerer is speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26605	Mr President. Federal Minister! As the last speaker on this Agricultural Law Change Act package, I can speak of something that actually many understand – at least many of those who are among those who enjoy it: The 1999 wine law will also be amended. The wine industry in Austria has great national and international successes, and we can, above all, really rely on consumers who also trust us with regard to wine: In the area of local gastronomy, 84 percent of the wines that are drunk come from Austrian winegrowers. In the area of wines that are drunk at home, it is 74 percent. Positive developments can also be seen in wine exports. Nevertheless, we know that it is very difficult for the small-structured Austrian wine industry to prove itself permanently on the world market of wine. The winegrowers successfully rely on the highest quality and above all on regional typical taste profiles. This is due to the fact that there are 19 wine-growing areas. Two wine-growing areas are also changed with this new law: In addition, the municipality of Sittenberg-Reidling changes from the wine-growing area of Donauland to the wine-growing region Traisental. – This is also well-founded in the tourist structure and also due to the geographical, geological and climatic conditions. There is also a change in the area of the DAC wine: This law also lays down a necessary introduction of corresponding criminal provisions to the existing DAC wine regulations and thus also provides for a long-term quality assurance in this area. The Austrian winegrowers will continue to promote the quality of the Austrian wine and, above all, contribute accordingly to the legal framework conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26646	Mr Pirklhuber has now spoken. 2 minutes remaining speaking time. The Group's remaining speaking time: 14 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26667	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Three short comments: For plant nutrition: Mr Schultes, it is true that the nitrogen in the soil is mainly made available from the humus and that it is about improving the soil accordingly and increasing the humus. – This is an old phytosanitary “No na net” wisdom. In the case of nitrogen fertilisers, there is a great danger that they simply disappear into the air or into the water – in these two areas nitrogen fertilizers can be carried out. That should be held. I agree with you on one point: It is likely that only 400 to 500 farms will be affected by this derogation. – Ladies and gentlemen! That is all the worse, because what is the signal of an environmental minister to obtain an exemption for 500 farms where, on the other hand, there is still a need for action!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Go, stop!]] And don't come to me with the argument of the competition question: This has nothing to do with competition. 200 000 people in Austria must use drinking water that is burdened. This is legally possible in accordance with the drinking water exemption regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as this situation exists, all measures are necessary to improve water and improve agriculture. It is this optimization that also brings farmers something themselves and reduces costs in production! As Minister of State, only one thing remains to me today: A Federal Minister, who unites the environment and agriculture, persistently silences these critical objections of the opposition, which only occasionally escapes a smile, represents a way of dealing with the parliamentary discourse that I will not accept. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: It's all said!]] We will not agree to this water law law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26717	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the 2005 draft legislation on the amendment of agricultural law in 1018 of the supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. Hiezu has a request from Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues, for a separate vote. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Articles 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur to Article 11. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – The majority of the house gives this sign. The draft law was therefore adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to give a sign of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement on the European Forestry Institute to grant approval in 862 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – Mr Gaál, do you give the sign? Thank you. This ensures unanimity. This has been adopted unanimously. [[22:24:52]] 16. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (514 e.g._Other Organiser International Convention on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, as well as Plants and Declaration (1019 d.a.) 17. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (612d.b._Other Organiser Declaration of acceptance concerning the revised text of the International Plant Protection Convention and revised text of the International Plant Protection Convention and Appendix (1020 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26809	We now come to points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate is initiated by Mrs Schiesermair. She wants to talk to us for 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26836	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! World food security, sustainable agriculture and agricultural production as well as the protection of agricultural biodiversity depend largely on the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources. In line with the objectives of the Rome Declaration on World Food Safety and for sustainable agricultural development for our future generations, it is important that we adopt this bill. Why is it important? – It is essential raw materials that are guaranteed for the rights of farmers. For example, there is the storage and use, exchange and sale of seed, sharing in the decision-making process, fair division, it is about important interfaces of agriculture, environment and trade and the preservation of these resources for future generations. The fact is that since the beginning of the 20th century. In the 20th century, 75 percent of plant genetic resources lost agricultural diversity. In the last century, around 90 percent of the types of corn, corn, pea and tomato disappeared in the USA. Since 1950, in India the number of varieties of 30 000 rice has dropped to 50. The consumer behaviour of society is forcing agriculture through economic measures, more and more back on a few, but dominant, types of culture. ................................................................................................................................................................ Result: Globalized one-of-a-kind taste reduces the cost-effectiveness of our product diversity. Three types of culture – rice, wheat and maize – cover more than 50 percent of human food needs worldwide. Only more than 100 species of plants of 4,800 are known to account for 90 percent of the world’s food needs. In local areas and regional product security and development, the chance of the future may lie for large thinkers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26882	The next speaker was Mrs Walther. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26903	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This International Convention on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture was concluded on 3 July. ==References== The aim of this Treaty is to preserve and use plant genetic resources in a sustainable manner, as well as the balanced and fair distribution of the resulting benefits for sustainable agriculture. My previous speaker already pointed out that in the 20th century, ==References====External links== Now we are working on increasing it and increasing its diversity in order to achieve real benefits to food safety – in accordance with the Convention on Biological Agriculture. This diversity is also essential for organic farming. The Treaty notes that the conservation, exploration, collection, characterisation, evaluation and documentation of plant genetic resources are crucial for the achievement of Rome's objectives for world food security, for the action plan of the World Food Summit and for sustainable agricultural development. The capacity of developing and emerging countries to achieve these tasks is to be strengthened. Provisions against famine and also against unilateral exploration of the soil are to be created. The Parties – and Austria – agree to facilitate access to these resources under a multilateral system. Furthermore, financial and other benefits of marketing, international networks, a global information system for genetic resources and arbitration procedures as well as a list of crops under the multinational system are to be maintained. Since 1992, the AGES, the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, has built the Seminum Austriae Index, a very comprehensive gene database and continues to build it up. It thus carries out the mandate of the EU, which was awarded to the EU countries during the Austrian Presidency in 1998. Plant genetic resources must be preserved and maintained. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26946	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 3 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e26968	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the two present drafts As already pointed out, it is about this international agreement on the conservation of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture. We will, of course, agree to its ratification. We will also, of course, agree to the revision of the International Plant Protection Convention. In view of the advanced period, I will limit my statements to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e27000	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e27021	Ladies and gentlemen! We will also agree with both proposals and contracts, of course. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] I just wanted to say a short positive word, which is perhaps important: that the possibility to reproduce, multiply and also protect and maintain seed is explicitly held. This is a very important task for farmers in the future. I think it is very nice that this treaty is finally ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e27055	Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e27076	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We really have an interesting contract here, which proves that the world is not only designed by the farmers, but unfortunately also changed by the peasant economy. There, where it is industrialized, or in very industrially dependent structures, the species become poorer, and all over the world one has insisted that one has to counter it. We in Austria join this regulation, which was created under the auspices of the FAO, and want to try to preserve the natural species that are also present in us, which are suitable for human use, in their natural habitat, where they are attached and maintained by farmers, but also where they are preserved in public institutes. This regulation helps to ensure that these plants can in fact also be used internationally economically. There is also the right to access elsewhere, and as a whole it is a rule that is very optimistic, because it is assumed that even if agriculture continues to develop, there will be farmers who have and maintain these plants in such habitats to produce good and healthy products. This will also be the case if others believe that they can take away their livelihoods from the farmers. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] We will do everything we can to remain powerful and strong. Eat some G’scheit’s and sleep well!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e27115	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: International contract on plant genetic resources for food and agriculture, including facilities and declaration of approval in 514 of the supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, to decide that the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish language versions should be made known by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Declaration of acceptance concerning the revised text of the International Plant Protection Convention and revised text of the International Plant Protection Convention and its Annex, Article XXI. The second sentence of the Constitution is to be approved in 612 of the Supplements. With regard to the aforementioned constitutional provision, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is adopted unanimously and with the required two-thirds majority. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the Arabic, Chinese, English, French and Spanish language versions must be made known by making public use of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – Adopted unanimously. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00115_d7e27194	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 654/A to 668/A. Question No 3212/J also reached 3254/J. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 7th. July 2005, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
