ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5019	The 129. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. The official protocols of 127 and 128. Meeting of 16 March 1990 In November 2005, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Murauer, Broukal, Dr. Einm, Heinisch-Hosek, Mag. Muttons, Prehauser, Constellation and Worm. Before I give the floor to Mr Cap, who has made a report on business, I should like to take back a call for order, which I have given to Mr Niederweiser for the last time. At the time, after a speech by Silvia Fuhrmansine, Deweiser Niederwieser made a comment, which I asked him to take back. – Delegate Niederweiser has taken her back. But I have not heard this on account of the applause in this speech. In the minutes, however, I read this. Mr Niederwieser, you have therefore not received a call for order. Mr Cap spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5082	Mr President. High house! I rise against the agenda of the 129. Meeting of the National Council of Objections arising from the meeting of the Constitutional Committee of 1. On 30 December 2005, after the agenda had been discussed at the Presidential Conference on 30 December 2005. ==References== The Socialist Group opposes joint deliberations on points 12 to 16. In particular, the agenda item 14: Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1193, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Implementation of Volks-, Arbeitstätten-, Gebäude- und Wohnungstellungen und Bundesgesetz, which amends the Postal Act 1997, the Notification Act 1991 and the Education Documentation Act (1246 d.B.) to be consulted individually. The Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also proposes to negotiate these as TOP 5 in accordance with the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs. The previous TOP 5 to 13 will subsequently be named ‘6 to 14’. I'm just trying to explain this as follows: The joint deliberation of a proposal, which is completely rejected by a political group, with proposals to which this group agrees, such as the 2006 Federal Procurement Act, is not within the meaning of business law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I would like to ask you, Mr President, in accordance with § 50 para. 1 GOG to hold a debate which should take place following the current hour following a decision in principle of the Presidential Conference. The Socialist Group also calls for a separate decision on both issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5130	Mr Molterer spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5154	Mr President. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that all my colleagues also know: This agenda proposal, as it stands today, is based on a joint draft prepared by the club directors of all four political groups and is available in the last presidential conference to decide where all four political groups voted, Mr Cap. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] I think it is important that the political groups of this House also comply with the decisions taken at the presidential conference because this is ultimately the basis for the functioning of the work here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5188	There are no further statements on business treatment. There will therefore be a debate on the objections raised by Mr Klubobmann Josef Cap after the current hour has been completed. In accordance with § 50 para. 1 GoG limit the number of speakers per club to three and the speaking time to 5 minutes, but I have heard that only one speaker is planned. Thank you. [[10:04:50]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5215	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Successful security policy for Austria” First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Molterer. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5242	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the High and of course also on TV screens! We have today chosen this theme of the current “Successful security policy for Austria” because we believe that security is one of the most important concerns. It is one of the most important tasks that people have, and probably one of the most important tasks, to finally implement policy, namely to give security. Today, we can say proudly – and this tells us a whole series of international studies and comparisons – that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. We can be proud of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I don't know how you are, but this is more meaningful than a statistics: For example, if I have guests from abroad and can walk through the city centre with these guests or even without problems with public transport, many of these colleagues are always very surprised: Why is this possible in Austria? One reason, ladies and gentlemen, why this is possible in Austria is that the Members of the Security Executive, the police are doing great work for our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore think that we must be grateful to the colleagues of the public service, in this case to the officials of the security executive, for the work which they are truly often doing under difficult conditions. Only a few of us can imagine what it means to be exposed to the daily risk associated with the work of safety executive employees. But we should also have the eyes open to new dangers, new threats. We must not rest on the laurels of our successful security policy. These issues include the threat posed by international terrorism, and we must not be so naive, ladies and gentlemen, to believe that this issue is not an issue for Europe or for us – no, we must deal with it as well as with the new forms of crime through new technologies. There is cyber-crime, and this is a question that asks for security policy for every country, as well as the question of organised crime, drug crime, ladies and gentlemen, and – I know that not everyone likes to hear this, but I am speaking openly – also the problems of trafficking in human beings and tow streams of refugees and migration. These are also questions, ladies and gentlemen, that we must deal with. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Since we have this comprehensive security understanding, we want to continue in the future in this 21st century. At the end of the century, people in our country were given the level of security, stability and trust that is an essential prerequisite for quality of life, an essential prerequisite for social stability and an indispensable condition for the Austrian site. Our foreign exchange is therefore called, ladies and gentlemen: Consequence for security and uncompromising against crime! This is the task ahead of us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For example, we have laid the foundations for effective and coordinated crime control with the Central Federal Criminal Office and with the reform of state protection. And I am still enigmatic, ladies and gentlemen, why, for example, the Social Democracy in Austria has voted against these initiatives. We have established a legal basis to deal with the ban on mumming – an important question for the security of our country. I really do not understand why social democracy has not agreed to these measures. We have set up reforms in the field of the Security Academy in order to create better training opportunities for employees. I do not understand why social democracy has voted against this – just as it is against the fight against crime. We can say today that this Rasterfachung has proved itself absolutely successful in the interests of the security of our country and this measure was correct, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also mysterious – quite frankly – for me why the SPÖ, especially the Greens, voted against these measures, for example, in the fight against drug crime or the creation of protection zones or the establishment of video surveillance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this: This is about protecting our children from drugs, and we must create the best possible conditions for the protection of our children. I therefore call on the opposition to finally give up this eye-on-eye trend in security policy. This is the most important thing for our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we have also taken the necessary reform steps. One of the most important reform steps for the security of our country, ladies and gentlemen, is probably the combination of police, gendarmerie and customs guards – a project that has been discussed for years, has actually been stowed into various bureaucratic drawers over decades. We have attacked this hot potato, we have implemented this reform – by the way, I regret it, against the voices of the SPÖ and against the votes of the Greens. We have also created efficient structures, for example, combining police and gendarmerie's command structures, in each federal state, creating uniform structures for combating crime. I convinced myself, as many of my colleagues, during the visits to the guardrooms on site: This measure, Mrs Bundesminister, has proved absolutely successful, it is correct and improves our possibilities to work in the sense of Austrian safety, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This streamlining of the organization, this new structure that we have created here, has also brought about something that people have expected from us: It is less invested in bureaucracy and more in the fight against crime. There are more employees on the street and less in the office. And this is probably the most important message we have achieved with this reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, security policy, of course, also includes the issue of the right of foreigners and asylum. I always hear criticism from the Greens when we relate this issue to safety. I am referring to security and I would like to point out: Those who do not take a firm stand against abuse in asylum and foreign law create a security risk, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why I am telling you that we are not going to let down here, that we are also going to have asylum and xenophobia rights, or, for example, citizenship rights, before the end of the century. take security seriously and consistently reform where these changes are necessary in the interests of the country. Mrs Bundesminister, I think that we can also work in the European dimension for our security needs. Enlargement has brought more security to Austria. European cooperation is also important and a security benefit for our country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the success is right: The crime rate is falling, the rate of education is increasing, and this is the result of the security policy of Lies Prokopund of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore expressly thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for this success. I thank the employees of your home. I thank the many staff members of the security executive, who sometimes hold their heads for our safety every day in the truest sense. For us from the Austrian People's Party, I say this in conclusion, and for this the Austrian People's Party is the motto: Consequences for security and uncompromising anti-crime.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5415	The Federal Minister for the Interior of Prokop has given a preliminary opinion on the matter. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5436	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we can briefly debate this important issue for people in this country today, because I believe it is extremely important not only to present to people what is objectively evident, but also to bring it subjectively to people: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. This can be proven by data. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Our police enjoy very, very high reputation, they enjoy high confidence in the population. This is not a matter of course, it is also important to stress. We had the opportunity in the Committee on the Interior to discuss the 2004 Security Report. We also see that there has been a minimum increase compared to 2003 in the following offences: 0.1 percent. This means that for the first time there was a trend change, a stop to the strong rise in crime. This trend change is all the more evident when you observe this year and the further successes. It is clearly clear that monthly criminal statistics, which were established in 2004, are a very important issue in the field of the interaction of modern criminal analytical procedures, an important step also in the fight against crime. These monthly criminal statistics are not only necessary to make clear the transparency of police work, but also lead to a basis for a criminal strategy that can and must be constantly adapted to the situation. The monthly data currently available are satisfactory: In the course of the current year, crime development has seen a drop of 5.8 percent, and there is an increase of 1.9 percent in the investigation rate in the area of reported criminal offences. I think that can be traced back to three reasons: first of all, of course, to the excellent, the really great work of our employees in the executive. The second reason is the willingness of these police officers to contribute in time to the necessary changes in the system, to form, to cooperate in it. Only in this way can you remain powerful. One of the measures that has been implemented in recent weeks and months is the modern, rapidly available method of analysis. She contributes to the modern and efficient implementation of the instruments that the police officer has in his hand. Or another measure is the so-called state-of-the-art report of the Federal Criminal Office, where the regional data of the security monitor can be quickly retrieved and placed on the geographical information system, GIS. This is an international example of criminal work. These criminal police strategy and action plans, which result, are instruments that we are now using intensively and internationally both in Austria. If, on the basis of these instruments, one sees that the crime occurrence is piled at one point, i.e. burglary thefts, robberys up to the tow, then these priorities, which are available at the push of a button for all executive officials, can be identified and the appropriate measures adapted and put in place as quickly as possible. This includes the EGS, the deployment group to combat street crime, which has been specifically created to support regional forces, in order to combat crime of search for poisons, property crime, violent crime. She has been acting since the summer of 2004. Since then, 150 executive officials have been trained for this purpose. These specially trained officials are currently used mainly and mainly in these hotspots. And since the merger of the guards with 1st. There is such a unit in each of the nine National Police Commanders, which carries out this task and supports the districts in charge. This is a clear help, how to check and ask at any time. Last but not least, the prevention of crime is a very important point that we must always point out. It was and is simply necessary to make citizens more aware that they themselves also bear responsibility. Therefore, the crime prevention campaign is a very valuable contribution to preventing crime, especially before the pre-Christmas season or during the pre-Christmas season. The third key strategic point in development is the willingness to make early changes to the internal security system, especially in the area where internationality is of course. Internal security can no longer be seen decoupled from external security. In the field of internal security there are international links, and especially Austria is particularly challenged by these interconnections. Globalisation, of course, also occurs in the field of security. On the one hand, Europe has been led by the terrorist attacks of the 11th century. ==References== In July 2005, it was clearly stated that no one is faced with such problems. Secondly, illegal migration, organised crime and terrorism have become international, particularly since the end of the division of Europe. They just don't stop at borders anymore. And thirdly, our country is closer to the fields of instability in the East and South-East of Europe, and that is why we are partly more demanding than other EU Member States. We are more affected by the second wave of organised crime, but also by the illegal migration movement from this region. This means that we must think and act internationally on the subject of security. We have therefore strengthened cooperation with each other. We want to pack the threat to the roots and reduce negative effects. The international strategy goes in three directions: towards neighbouring countries, second towards partners in the European Union and third towards countries and regions, which are the starting point or transit area for security problems. In recent years, we have created a network of cooperation. State agreements have been concluded, there are state agreements with completely new quality. ==References== In December, it entered into force with Germany. We can go together in the border area, but we can also persecute perpetrators in the other state. The exchange of above all important criminal police information is also included in this contract. In 2005, we have promoted state agreements with the Czech Republic and Italy and we have implemented the existing agreements in practice. Another example of international cooperation is the Salzburg Group, which includes the new member countries, but in which the applicants already cooperate. The main task is to deepen the common security concern in Europe, with a genuine and intensive preparation for the standards that are also necessary in a Schengen area. A third example to be mentioned in the international field is the creation of the network of liaison officers in Europe. Twelve such liaison officers are working abroad, and ten foreign liaison officers are with us in Austria. This exchange of the knowledge of liaison officers will be carried out intensively, and under the Austrian Presidency we will advance these regular meetings of liaison officers. A further focus in the field of cooperation is the preparation of the Austrian Presidency. We have set ourselves the objectives of providing the best possible security to all those who come to Austria, as little as possible for the Austrians to limit the citizens of that country. This is, of course, very difficult, but we also want to move something in terms of content. The terrorist attacks in London and Madrid have shown that soft targets simply do not stop. This means that events where many people are at risk are particularly dangerous. We need to be careful about this, and we have also put in place new measures with the new digital call option. We want to offer this security to all those who come to Austria, not only during the Presidency, but also at major events, such as the European Football Championship. I believe that the current novel to the SPG also offers opportunities for this, because the last novel with the introduction of video surveillance and the creation of protection zones has opened up additional possibilities for us. In particular, we want to push forward the areas of the operational and crisis coordination centre. We have created a new national opportunity, and I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to highlight one more point: I said that the reputation of the executive is very high. In October there was an investigation, a survey by the Social Science Study Society on the trust of Austrians in public institutions. The federal constitution has won in front of the police. I think this is proof of acceptance and that the work was good and that it guarantees safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5486	Next word: Mr Kößl. The speaking time of all who are now taking part in the debate is 5 minutes. I also remember that the 10 minutes speaking time for the member of the government is a must and not a must. Please, Mr Kößl.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5507	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has already been mentioned that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. That's it, that's it, and that'll be it in the future, I'm convinced. I am therefore convinced that we have responded in time to the changed situations in Europe, because we have adapted the security structures to today's requirements and because we have our executives for the 21st century. ==References====External links== It is true that, due to the changed conditions in Europe, there has been an increase in crime in Western Europe. What's changed? – With the disappearance of the Iron Curtain, with the collapse of the countries, with the progressive globalisation, with the disappearance of visa obligations, with the disappearance of borders or their opening and due to the increased mobility of the population in Eastern Europe and the social gap between East and West, a migration of people has arisen. And this international migration has also brought about a strong increase in the development of crime. Criminal tourism, organised crime, gang crime, crime in all forms, has generally increased throughout Europe, and Austria is not an island. Of course, Austria – which the Federal Minister has already mentioned – is in a very exposed place in Europe: We're the turntable between East and West. We have, of course, been the main stakeholders in the face of increasing crime. I would like to thank Mr Strasser, the Minister of the Interior and especially Mrs Prokop, for having responded so quickly to this development. One thing is clear: With the requirements and structures of the past, it is not possible to deal with the great challenges of the future, and people in our country have a right to solve these problems, the requirements and challenges as well. The burglar from the neighboring village, from the neighboring district that it used to be, is past or there is only more in the rarest cases. Today, the perpetrator drives hundreds of miles, commits his act and returns to his home country. Therefore, the structures in the police sector had to be adapted and changed to the new action strategies. What was changed? – International cooperation has been substantially strengthened. As the Federal Minister has already pointed out, liaison officers, police liaison officers, have been installed in many strategic important countries, because it is very important that the networking and cooperation between national and international police organizations be effective. work. There has been a very important change in the installation of the Federal Criminal Office. All special units have been integrated into the Federal Criminal Office, because it is extremely important to fight this organized crime specifically. The redeployment of the Cobra, the integration of customs guard into the Ministry of the Interior and the very important introduction of video surveillance are further milestones. Where video surveillance is already being used, it has helped preventatively to reduce crime levels. The gathering of the wake bodies has already been addressed, and the overlaps and double-tracks now belong to God thanks to the past. I believe that, in general, it can be said that this change is very good for the future, and I am convinced that the officials, who have already been thanked for this, will be able and able to deal very well with these new structures in the future. I thank you for the good work done by my colleagues on the spot.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5555	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5577	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For us Social Democrats, the security of people in our home country is of great importance. This is not a lip commitment, but it is a fact that we have repeatedly demonstrated in this House. I would just like to remind you of the agreement on protection zones and on video surveillance. We will therefore continue today after this current hour to give our approval to the amendment to the Security Police Act, which will create new opportunities for more effective combating terrorism and serious violence in the balance of legal protection and security. However, the necessary staff is needed to do this. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore strange that you are celebrating your security policy for Austria today, although you know that exactly the opposite is the case. At this current hour, they are doing what the government can best to spread sand into the eyes of people. Mr. Molterer! You seem to have already done this. That's a fact! [[Abg. May. Molterer: You do what is common: vote against!]] High house! In 1999, we had about 490 000 crimes in Austria under a SPÖ's Minister of the Interior and an investigation rate of well over 50 percent. Have six years It needs to increase the crime rate by 30 percent, namely to 640,000, and to reduce the intelligence rate by one third, i.e. less than 38 percent. This is the wrong way, and this leads to only more than four out of a hundred burglaries being cleared up in Vienna. This is a successful security policy? – This is clearly the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must also not be surprised when we know that the Ministry of Education has destroyed more than 3,000 posts since 2000. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are doing politics with much more charm, I like to admit, but you are walking on the same tracks. They are planning the abolition of other 950 federal politicians in this Republic for 2006. Faced With Its Fight Do you compromise against violence and crime, Mr Molterer? – Who are you going to do that with? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not with you!]] I'll ask you that! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not with you! You can't!]] In view of these facts, we must ask ourselves how the Federal Police should deal with the tasks assigned to it by the legislator in the future, if fewer and fewer staff are available for an ever-increasing number of tasks, such as securing large sports events. In fact, it is not surprising for me to use Hohes Haus when the Minister of the Interior comes up with the absurd idea of using foreign executive officials at such large sports events as the Euro 2008. I'll tell you one thing: That is why we did not present our bilateral police work agreement. How will the Austrian population react if it is received and met at the sports stadium of foreign uniformed officials? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] For me, this is a questionable and dangerous consideration, and that is the wrong security policy for me, because the monopoly of violence, the Hohes Haus, must clearly remain in the hands of the Austrian executive, whom I would like to thank most warmly on this occasion for their activity and for their use. [[Abg. Großruck: The Socialist International will already judge it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ therefore calls for an increase in personnel and the efficient improvement of safety structures with all vehemence. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is international solidarity!]] A comment on the visa affair: Thousands have found shelter in Austria with wrongful visas, and criminals are driving their beings. This government is not clarifying, but it is walling, and it is unbearable, ladies and gentlemen, that you are to blame each other. What do you say about this, Mrs Federal Minister, if the Secretary-General of the Foreign Affairs thinks you have the supervision of the visa award, and you are stamping it as the debtor in this affair? Is it true that €70 per visa unlawfully issued and that more than 48 000 visa applications have already been made positive? – This is as much as the entire population of the city of St. Pölten. [[Abg. Großruck: Do you know more than you say?]] Madam Minister of the Interior, the dimension of this scandal is growing from day to day! That's a fact. 3 million € have flown for the exhibition of visas. Not taken into account is the amount of damage caused in Austria by visa criminals by the crime imported by the Interior and Foreign Affairs Office. That's a fact. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Talk time!]] I call on you, Mrs Innenminister, to clarify the affair urgently, and take responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5711	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5732	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, the last sentence was correct: “Take responsibility!” I hope that this was addressed to you and your group, because it would be necessary, particularly in security policy, for the opposition to take responsibility at last and not to try to make party policy at the expense of the country's security. That's the policy you've always run here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course – and this is up to you – you agree with some measures, reform measures, as is now the case with the Security Police Act. But in other things, where your left ideologists do not want to admit that you have pursued a missing policy for years, you are not willing to jump over your own left shadow. They were not prepared to fight abuse in this area, for example, by means of a strict asylum law, by ensuring that only more are granted asylum in Austria, which really needs it because they are really being persecuted in their home countries, and not those who are pursuing any criminal activities here through asylum status. You know very well that this abuse is being committed, but you are not willing to take this important measure for the security of our country. Responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, looks different! This coalition government has been taking this responsibility seriously and consistently since 2000. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to face the challenge in this area, and this is undoubtedly not an easy task. There has been the opening of the eastern borders, and especially in the eastern region of Austria, we see a criminal tourism towards us in the form that organized gangs come to Austria with the bus, not dozens of people, but hundreds a day, who do their criminal activities here and then return home, perfectly tuned with Hehler organisations. Drug crime is one of the biggest problems. We are now being flooded again by drugs coming from the crisis areas of Asia up to us. And it is international terrorism that does not stop before our borders – at least what the threat situation is going on. In all these areas, it is necessary to pursue a comprehensive security policy, Mr Parnigoni, without ideological suffrages. Of course, it is necessary to put the rule of law before everything, no question. There must be no abuse either. But it must also not be accepted that the criminals are always two or three steps ahead of the rule of law, what the equipment is about, what technology or connectivity is about. Here the rule of law must not depart from the criminals, and here we have our executive to give our full support, both in terms of the legal framework and in terms of infrastructure and budget, but also in terms of the back cover for our executive officials. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, don't do that! They say: Support is not a lip confession. – Yes, but then we have to strengthen our executive officials too! If something happens in an official act if there are injuries if there is suspicion that overreacts have been made, it must be clarified; no question. But where this is not the case, where executive officials are then disturbed by the media, as if they were the perpetrators and the criminals the victims, it must be clearly and clearly established that we are strengthening our executive officers' backs in their heavy activity, even if they are publicly criticized for this important work. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary that we give the executive a modern and forward-looking service right. That is why we demand – and this is also necessary in the area of the federal army – that the Federal Workers' Act, to be decided by us, takes into account the specificities of the executive service, Mr. Niederweiser, because a schedule of officials is not suitable for such a special service. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: When?]] And of course we want there to be savings in the public service, including in the service posts – but in the administration and not in the executive, which guarantees our security. And this is what the Federal Government is doing, and this is what Mrs Ministers are doing, and we will support it. And if you said, Carry responsibility!, then I advise you, go in once, leave Marx and Murks and work together with us for the security of this country, with all the consequences and also future-oriented.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5783	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. – 5 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5815	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Molterer pointed out that the RVP had proved successful. I notice: There has so far been no case of grid arrest. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Blamabel!]] I don't know how to prove something that hasn't happened yet. The declaration by Klubobmann Molterer is not proof of the quality of the Rasterfachung, but of the security-political incompetence of the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ and, unfortunately, some social democrats always point out how many criminals come from the East and the South. – Yes, there are some under the ÖVP, because they only have to get a visa! A new message is added every week, and every week more is known about the illegal trade in visas, which has been tolerated for years by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Minister. The illegal visa dealers have – knowingly or ignorantly – been protected by ÖVP politicians in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Government. If there had been a serious leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the visa scandal would have been clarified and the illegal trade of visas stopped years ago. [[Abg. Großruck: How was the fisherman in Germany? Hundreds of thousands have come in there!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That was the green fisherman in Germany!]] [[Abg. Brosz: There has been an investigation committee in Germany, Mr. Cot!]] The visa policy of the Austrian People's Party is a security risk for the Republic of Austria. The visa scandal is already five times the visa scandal in the Federal Republic of Germany. There was a fifth to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry! You're still hiding today, you still allow illegal visas to be sold abroad in connection with Austrian representative authorities until today. And then you say – although you do not restrict money laundering, do not confiscate criminal money, do not introduce a declaration obligation, do not control the trade in visas: We need fingerprints and video data from all the unspoiled Austrians because we are hunting drug dealers and terrorists. – Do you think you're gonna find a terrorist with a video camera at Kika? Do you think you're gonna find a drug dealer with a video camera at MediaMarkt? Do you really assume that drugs are being traded in the media market and that the terrorists meet at Kika? And do you really want to have fingerprints from all Austrians, knowing that millions of unspoiled Austrians are absolutely unwarranted about cooperation with terrorism and drug crime? I say: Stop Once you've got the ÖVP pan policy, from the visa affair to the failed reconnaissance of CIA flights to money laundering and criminal activities in international money flows! Take care of the core of crime! Support the work of the criminal officers and criminals! In the Ministry of the Interior, look not primarily at the party's book, but at the quality of work in dealing with the important security problems! – Then a restart, a new start, a serious security policy in Austria is possible. Mr Klubobmann Molterer, in the past the security policy has still been considered: If we intervene in fundamental rights and monitor the privacy, the total surveillance of people in Austria when shopping, public transport, parking garages, video cameras, the loss of fingerprints from all – these are serious interventions! – order, yes want and may we intervene so strongly in fundamental rights, in the personal sphere, in the intimate atmosphere? Mr Molterer, the concepts of intimacy, the protection of personal freedoms, the fundamental rights of citizens, I have never heard of you today. This has obviously been completely lost in a former liberation party such as the Austrian People's Party, and we should also note this at this point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5922	Mrs Prokop, Federal Minister, spoke. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e5944	High house! I know it is not usual to speak here again, but I would like to address the issue of visa, visa exhibition, visa affairs very briefly, because I have also been personally addressed. The separation between supervision and supervision is clear, I believe, to everyone working in the administration, and I will therefore not miss out on it more widely. On the side of supervision, it is necessary to clarify the conditions necessary to properly issue visas and to comply with Austrian and EU legislation. Measures have already been taken on the basis of events in 2002. I would now like to say quite clearly: First of all, in 2002, a restriction on visa allocation was decided, which is with 1. ==References====External links== Contents: Austrian embassies may only obtain visas for those persons to issue their regular residence in that State. – This means a strong restriction and, at least, a better way to stop what is now so to speak by the media. The second one is 1st. In January 2006, there was a failure of sight in the event of suspicion of a connection to organised crime and terror. With 1. In January 2006, there is an obligation to inquire at the Federal Ministry of the Interior, especially with regard to certain suspicions regarding towing or prostitution. Furthermore, there is an obligation to file a visa personally and to collect it personally. – This, too, means a strong restriction in order to achieve improvements. What the administrative is going on: There was an increased training of consular staff in visa matters. Further measures: consultation with consular staff; Documentary and Visa Advisors have been set up in certain representation authorities together with the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is a monthly joint evaluation of the statistics introduced by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and an assessment of the conspicuousness of the issue of visas; Assessment of the practice of other Schengen countries, as well as assessment of migration and risk of crime. This is advised on a regular basis, and there is also a joint test team that – unannounced of course – makes samples. For our part, a questioning obligation for 20 states – I refer in this context to the examinations of the CCI – was introduced when issuing visas, and there is also a questioning obligation for Nigeria and Moldova. Ladies and gentlemen! If there are so-called covert claims of figures in space here, I consider it an obligation for a citizen to bring these – suspected – criminal offences to light as well. However, this has not happened in this form! We are not only willing to do so, but also working very closely with the judicial authorities. And this applies to both the interior and the foreign ministry: All documents are provided! Again: We are very interested in furthering this information, but this clearly separates us from a political event, such as in Germany in the liberalisation of visas or even in criminal acts. Enlightenment is a task and commitment for us, and we will therefore move forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6011	Mr Lopatka is next speaker. His speaking time: 5 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6032	Ladies and gentlemen! Just this word message has shown it again: With such an interior minister you can feel safe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you for this consistent work, for the timely action and for this reliable policy! That's the exact counterpart to the opposition. If I think only of the previous speaker fungus, what's bigger about him: the unbelief or the unfrozenness? To vote against all the security laws, but at the same time to demand more security! – This is certainly not how it is done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Most peculiar things can also be found if the behaviour of SPÖ leads to this being done. It was clearly said by her first speaker Parnigoni that the SPÖ was of course for greater security. However, when it comes to drawing the necessary consequences and agreeing to the relevant legislation, it is from you that the SPÖ always comes to a No, a clear No; also to a No to the prevention of violence. I recall that the SPÖ refused the consent when it came to introducing a disguise ban on demonstrators. So, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you will no longer be safe! I should also like to remind you of the SPÖ's No to modern structures in the security departments, in the merger of police and gendarmerie. And this is yours. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We from the coalition parties take integration seriously! I now call you a number, and you will be able to recognize it, ladies and gentlemen, how unhindered the SPÖ where it bears responsibility takes security. There were more than 18,000 naturalisations in Vienna in 2003. And what do you believe in how many cases the city of Vienna No to naturalizations because of lack of German knowledge, in 18 000 positive cases? – It was only four cases, according to the city of Vienna, where there was a lack of German knowledge! That's what I'm asking: Is that serious? – You say “near and”?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Oils: So what?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Oellinger, we do not want a parallel culture, we do not want a Parisian relationship! We take integration seriously! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You can see that!]] I will also quote what Turkish Foreign Minister Gül said in Germany today, how important it is to take German knowledge. Minister Gül is more there than the Greens in Austria, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We are also there neither for package suspicions nor for package greetings that you have demanded from the opposition in the anniversary year! This is the big difference between you and us We take security questions very, very seriously! – You don’t do that! [[Abg. Ollinger: You've just been suspect of a flat rate now!]] [[New calls from the Abg. Oils.]] Always the SPÖ doesn't agree with No. But if it is true with Yes, it is connected with ordinary cramps. The last time you left the face, Mr. Parnigoni, in the field of asylum, some people had to suffer so that Clubobmann Cap was not blaming. Ask the colleague what illness she suffered at the time and why she was so inconspicuous that she could not come to the High House here. That's the difference between you and us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Yes to say security is easy. To say yes is simple, but then to pursue a consistent policy requires courage. And you lack this courage. [[Abg. Parnigoni: In the case of sensible measures, we have always been there, just not in the case of crazy people!]] – The asylum provisions that we have decided here were very useful, otherwise you would not have agreed, I suppose, right? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Others in your club have had great problems; they have also expressed this publicly. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't want to stop for too long, ladies and gentlemen. But what I say very clearly to you is – because you have misrepresented this too –: The security policy of this Minister of the Interior is a timely success, ladies and gentlemen. Crime has fallen in 2005, also in the Federal Capital of Vienna, and at the same time the education rate has increased. This is the decisive thing: a decline in crime – despite these many additional challenges, which have not occurred in the past, which are, of course, linked to enlargement. Crime has fallen. Why can't you even note that there is a positive development? This excellent balance sheet of the Minister of the Interior is perhaps what makes you possible, but the Austrians of the Minister of the Interior are certainly grateful for this balance. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, while you here in Parliament on essential security issues If you have not given your consent, we have a consistent policy here. We are acting because it is very important for us that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world in the future, and we are also prepared for the future challenges. It would be nice if you were to comply with all the laws You may agree, but at least you are prepared to go along.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6172	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6193	Mr President. Minister! High house! If you listen to the colleagues of the government parties, especially the EIA, in terms of security – and the Austrians have the opportunity to do so – you must inevitably get the impression that the appearance you produce has absolutely nothing to do with the actual being. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They stand out here and say Austria has become safer. It would be nice! We'd be for that, too. Only: The facts speak a different language. Between the years 2000 and 2004, the rate of crime in Austria increased by 25 percent, among the Ministers for the Interior of the ÖVP and not among the ministers of the Social Democratic Interior. A right-wing government that preaches Law and Order policy abroad has to account for an increase in the crime rate in Austria by 25 percent. That's how your politics looks in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Crime in Austria has increased from 500 000 to 650 000 crimes. You know very well that people don't take this anymore. Who doesn't know someone in his circle who's reporting an apartment breakout? – I say quite openly to you: There are already a lot of people who are resigning and who no longer show these house collapses, because the rate of Enlightenment has fallen from 51 percent under Minister Schlögl to 38 percent now. People don't trust their policies anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I find it objectionable and unfrozen to make the geopolitical situation responsible. This could have been done 10, 15 years ago, because of the eastern opening in 1989. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You didn't do it!]] In 1999 and 2000, no geopolitical changes were made. It has, however, changed a little internally, i.e. politics in Austria, access to security policy in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank God!]] This was characterized by a classical infarction policy beyond all professional qualifications, by the reduction of personnel – 3 000 planning posts in police and gendarmerie – and by the de motivation of officials – the right of employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] This policy now bears its negative fruit that you have to answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know very well that in your time of government – under Minister Strasser, Mrs Prokop, you have not yet had an opportunity to do so – you have thinned the rural area as far as the Gendarmerie Posts are concerned. [[Abg. Großruck: That's what Mr. Schlögl did!]] You know very well that the fact that 119 posts are closed under your government responsibility has led to the strengthening of rural uncertainty. You know very well that the Gendarmerie now takes a very long time to get to the site of use, as there are regions where the distance between the Gendarmerie posts is 30 to 40 kilometers. [[Abg. Schöls: There is no more Gendarmerie at all!]] This is an uncertainty policy that does not take the population to that extent. [[New calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I say quite frankly to you: This policy of talking away, of looking away, no one is taking you away anymore. Mrs Minister, this also applies to visa affairs. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Your regret is no longer taking you away!]] I would like to ask you again: Where has the control activity of the Ministry of the Interior been at the Visa Office? [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] It is legitimate to ask this question. You just spoke, Mrs. Minister. You said: There's nothing to hide. – If there is nothing to hide, I would advise you to agree to our vehement concern for the establishment of an investigation committee, then we can also examine these whole processes in a parliamentary manner. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And the courts don't take you seriously?]] I would also like to say the following: In the time of a SPÖ government under Bruno Kreisky, the SPÖ has given the opposition a lot of opportunities to set up an investigation committee. [[Abg. Grossruck: Lucona was something else!]] I wonder, What do you have to hide? – Is this due to the activity of a Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel, or has this happened under Ferrero-Waldner? You must also admit that a former Social Democratic MP had already warned in 2001. That's an act, that's admitted. That's why: Voices To a committee of inquiry, all the facts on the table! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Speaking of appearance and being: You, Mr Molterer, switch to the “Kronen Zeitung” ads on the labour market to create work for a secure future. [[the speaker shall keep the said newspaper up to date]] - That's the shadow. The being is: the highest unemployment in the Second Republic. [[Abg. Amon: Employment, too, Mr Darabos!]] Please save us such ads in security policy, people don't believe you anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6402	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6423	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have five minutes to enjoy living uncertainty, because what my previous speaker, Mr Darabos, has now delivered here, in no way corresponds to the facts, but is simply the way of the social democrats to insure the people with negative news, to “pity” everything and to transport only the negative. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Sorry!]] I think if people have something enough, then there are parties that always only transport negative things. People want solutions for the future and not pity about the past. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If Mr Pilz here, as a great data protector and a constant critic of video surveillance, ridicules such measures from grid arrests, I must say, it is likely that it was precisely video surveillance in London that led to a very rapid identification of the perpetrators and that it was only possible by this means to identify very quickly which people really did these attacks. [[Abg. Oils: You didn't watch!]] Now we come back to Austria, to the area of Austrian crime. Let me begin by expressing my thanks and my appreciation to all the executive officials who, during the very difficult phase of conversion, drew together the summation of the guards with full elan and full motivation. This common strand has led to a decline in crime in Austria, despite the massive reduction in posts and road insecurity, if you look at the number of the year 2005. There is an overall decline in crime from almost 6 percent and an increase in the education rate to almost 40 percent. Especially in Vienna, which seems so terrible, there is an increase in the education rate in the area of crime of almost 9 percent. As regards the acceptance of video surveillance: There has been a survey in Vienna, which is very interesting and which should be dealt with. The result: 57 percent of the Wiener feel more secure by video surveillance. 60 percent have realized that video surveillance results in a deterrence of the possible criminals. 81 per cent – Mr Pilz, please, this is remarkable with regard to your statements – support video surveillance in the sense of the investigation of crimes. – I think that is a clear statement from the Austrian population with a sample of 1 000. So it can be said that video surveillance has proved itself on the one hand and on the other hand has been well recorded by our population and is now being expanded. It will be extended in the new law, which we will then decide on, in the extension of the Security Police Act, in the field of security in football stadiums and also in other sensitive places. One should leave the church in the village and say that the security and the population seem more important to us than the great fear of a possible abuse of any data. Let us finally come to a point that I personally care about, because the CIA flights are still a subject. I would like to present a few facts here to clarify some of them in order to perhaps raise their eyes in this causa. Over Austria there are approximately 2 500 to 3 500 crossings per day. Of these 2 500 to 3 500 overflights, there are approximately 300 overflights which require a permit, a so-called OCT. Realistically, however, only 80 of them are purchased. Our small airspace surveillance, which also works in this area with the Federal Ministry of the Interior and with the Ministry of Infrastructure, has succeeded as the only European state to document such a flight. This is mainly due – I would like to express my recognition – to the staff of Austrian airspace surveillance, who, through Internet search, select and review cases of problems with 3,500 flight movements per day. Only in this way was it possible to document that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What is going to happen to us in the fight against terrorism is to intensify this cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, which already exists, because Mr Pilz has called for a landing force. Although the federal army can make a landing force, the machine is more or less searching the BMI. I think, on the one hand, that we have proved that Austrian airspace surveillance works, with interceptors and not without, and on the other hand, that we are on the best way for the safety of our people with the intensification of video surveillance. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6493	The last speaker to speak is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6515	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to thank you for the information you have given to Parliament today that terrorist suspects and persons suspected of organized crime do not receive a visa. Mrs. Federal Minister, people involved in organized crime can buy visas! That's the succus of this entire visa affair that we've gotten in the meantime. I think it is very touching for the Austrian Minister of the Interior to say to Parliament what the measures in this so-called visa affair are: It is an instruction not to give a visa to suspects, terrorist suspects and organized crime. Yes, just now, Mrs. Minister! Hopefully, this has never been commanded in Austria that anyone suspected of terrorism or organised crime will receive a visa for Austria. But they don't need it. You're buying the visa! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The following has been shown in the last days and weeks in Austria: Poor people, the mass of people from the successor states of the former Yugoslavia who want to visit their relatives in Austria, or students who want to experience abroad, are harassed and held for days by Austrian consulates. Of these, everything that is possible is required, and from the others, they're being excavated, they're buying their visas. This is Austria's visa policy in 21. 19th century! Mrs. Minister, you must remember the time – that is, until a few years ago – when relatives of Yugoslavian host workers could come to Austria. There was visa freedom in the old Yugoslavia. The citizens of no state needed a visa at the time to come to Austria. Now, through this kind of policy, as it is made relevant to visas, there is a misunderstanding that you know not to fix. For – and this has been said several times today – the information that exists about probably criminal activities in Austria’s consulates is now not only the public but also the Member States have been known for at least three years, Mrs. Minister. In today's state of knowledge, nothing has happened for three years to actually intervene. This is the real scandal: Not that individual officials violate the law somewhere, that may happen, but that the resorts cover such processes, so to speak, so to speak, by not being put off efficiently by individual officials in a consulate, if they are proved to be miscarriage, simply being put into a consulate of another country, is the scandal! Yes, Mrs. Minister, is the investigation? – No, in my view, this is a negligent promotion of visa trade, as it is operated by the highest places in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] This, Mrs Minister, endangers security in Austria. If we start this Parliament sitting today under the title of “Successful Security Policy in Austria” and then this latte will be read by Mr Klubobmann at the beginning, I can tell you: Eight out of ten points are pure placebo. Mrs Minister, I ask you: What are the ways in which grid arrests have never been applied, in comparison to the fact that there is evidence that there are misbehaviors on the part of the authorities, such as in the question of trade in visas, which documents are scheduled after a year? – After a year, there is no evidence of what happened there. They come here today and want to make it clear to the Austrian people that the comprehensive fingerprint cards, genomes and anything else can improve the security of the individual in Austria or his security feeling? On the contrary, Mrs. Minister! I would recommend that the Austrian Government deal with those questions that actually endanger the safety of individuals and individuals, namely, the question of the lack of jobs, the high level of unemployment, the lack of perceptiveness of young people. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] This should be your first concern instead of distributing tablets that cause placebo effects! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6599	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[11:15:34]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6620	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[11:15:46]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6813	We now come to the debate on the amendments tabled by Mr Josef Capbere on the agenda item 14 as item 5 and on the summary of agenda items 12 to 16. I limited the speaking time to 5 minutes. By the way, the Rules of Procedure apply. Mr Spindelegger was the first to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6843	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Mr Cap's speech on the Rules of Procedure, we heard that an item on the agenda should now be taken out, in contrast to the present proposal, and should be debated separately. I can refer to the facts. ==References== In November, the club directors made a proposal that all these agenda items should be negotiated under one, of course with the agreement of the SPÖ club director. Secondly, I should like to point out that in the presidency on 30 October, the President of the Council of Ministers November 2005, that is, a few days ago, all those involved, including Mr. Dr. Cap, agreed that all agenda items should be negotiated under one procedure. I would like to point out to the third party that on 1 January, I am in a position to point out that I am not in a position to do so. It was known in the relevant Constitutional Committee on December that this was negotiated under one, but that there was no opposition from the SPÖ and that was not debated either. I would therefore also like to state clearly why we therefore reject this request: First: It was enough opportunity for a group in this House to request an amendment to the agenda. Secondly, Each Member may also address a specific point in the joint debate. No one can stop him from doing so. So, even if this is being negotiated under one, one can deal with one point in particular. Thirdly – and this is the most serious point for me –: If we agree on an agenda together in a difficult compromise, and all the political groups say so, then we must also comply with this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise we will have to put it back in plenary every time after an agreement that has already been reached. From my point of view, that's not the right style, that's why we stay with it. We shall therefore reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6892	The next speaker in this debate is Mr Wittmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6914	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, it should be noted that only in the debate of 1 January, can the debate be held. December has shown that there are serious differences in the Register Counting Act and that the ÖVP was not prepared to take even close to some of our objections seriously and also to take into account. For this reason, of course, it is necessary to draw up such an important point from a number of points where one has partial agreement, even on its own with regard to the relationship between the pro- and counter-voicers, because that would no longer be guaranteed. However, the factual reference to this issue is a very different story from these formal practices. It is a fact that a register counting law is being created here, which fits into the scheme, the colleague Pilz has already pointed out. Data are collected indiscriminately, providing that they contribute to increased security. However, the main objective of this registrar law is to link the register, the social security register, the educational institutions, the tax registers, the labour market service, the business register, the building register and the housing register, which would not be necessary for a register. This is only necessary in order to create personal data in the Federal Ministry, which receives the key for all these registers, which is nothing but a grid search on stock, because as a service provider for this personal key only the Ministry of the Interior is assigned. This would not be necessary if it were to be left to the administrative data. There is also a procedure that will open up opportunities for the Ministry of the Interior in the future, even if it is not allowed at the moment – but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should not have issued a visa either. It is then also the link between these data. Do you want your doctor's data, information about hereditary diseases, financial data to be gathered personally at the Ministry of the Interior? – I think that's not what we want. [[Abg. Scheibner: such a fool! That's a nonsense!]] The procedure is justified because you did not let any of these objections apply in committee. They want to collect data in this way, against which we sit down accordingly for the Wehr. Therefore, a point of its own agenda is necessary for this far-reaching law involving personal rights. It has to be a agenda item of its own because otherwise the debate on it will become a farce, especially when it is hidden behind other constitutionally relevant laws that are in conformity to be negotiated. It is also necessary to create a separation here, because this issue should be discussed within the framework of other issues discussed today and addressed to the Ministry of the Interior. After all, it deals with a variety of data-related laws. It must be possible, after a committee, where such discrepancies are crystallized, to reflect on a change to the agenda, because the discussion has changed and the discussion must therefore be held in a different quality than it has previously been adopted. One has hoped that there will be a distraction, but one has stuck here in a procedure that is discussed in one's own agenda. And that is why, I believe, it is necessary to hold this objection debate. It has only resulted from a subject-related discussion within the Committee and is therefore justified. It is therefore necessary to be able to adapt an agenda on the basis of a discussion in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6950	Mr Scheibner now speaks to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e6972	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, Mr Gusenbauer, has this been the speech made by Mr Wittmann? – To judge this remains yours, but I think that was the real sense of the whole action, that you can finally let Mr Wittmann talk here at half an attractive time, on a subject that might have come a little later. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It was very good! Excellent!]] Otherwise, I cannot imagine any other reason, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, I can't imagine any other reason. I understand, maybe he's frustrated. We do not do that, because his statements, which have been outrageous, have already been heard from other items on the agenda. We do not need this more often and certainly not here in the debate on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! That can only be the only reason. There's no other reason! A proposal for this agenda, including the summary of the agenda items on this issue, is made by the club director. There is a proposal from the President. Madam President, Mr Prammer was there, in the representative of Mr Cap, Mrs Wurm. Mr Cap was in charge of the presidential meeting. Everyone voted in favour of this agenda. Then came the Constitutional Committee, with which I was present – unlike you, Mr Cap. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Exactly!]] I don't know, maybe there was a conference call at the time. There was a normal debate. You knew what was on the agenda. There's been criticism of the opposition that we've been outraging. That's what it's all about. – This is a change in the census, because in the future it will no longer be necessary to send out millions of questionnaires – a huge administrative burden, a huge effort for the population! – but it is now useful to use the technical possibilities to collect the various data collected separately and to draw from it the necessary conclusions that would otherwise have been obtained from the censuses. Of course, everything must be done to prevent abuse. But abuse could also take place in the individual organisations, and there too it must be prevented as far as this occurs. – That was the only and only debate! So, and now one could still admit that this debate – which was quite factual and quite normal – the SPÖ, especially Mr Wittmann, has so aroused that he has said, no, that he now has to discuss prominently and make his own agenda point. Only, this committee was on 1st. December, so last week. To this day we have not heard of the outrage. So that was such a late-ignitioner, one could say, such an outrageous late-ignitioner, namely, only today in the early morning. It is likely that today the SPÖ was a club meeting, and you've been considering: How could we present ourselves accordingly? The only way was to make an objection debate so that Mr Wittmann can speak here too. Well, if that was the only reason, then that would be so admitted now, there can't be another reason. Of course, as we, Madam President Prammer and Mrs Wurm, together with us in the Bureau, have decided to approve the agenda in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7027	The next speaker in the Rules of Procedure was Mr Van der Bellen. He also speaks for a maximum of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7049	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann certainly used three minutes of his speaking time to comment on this government template, and his arguments are shared by the Greens. But that's not the point. The Greens, too, reject this law with all determination. But, Dr Wittmann, that is not the point, but it is a matter of Rules of Procedure, and that is already to be examined with great sensitivity. In any case, these questions are important for the Greens: Will a consensus be reached in the presidency, and, if so, will it be respected? This is also important for us, because, not least, it is in the interests of the respective minority groups that a consensus is reached in the Presidential Conference, a compromise will be reached, which will be supported by all the political groups involved. There will already be exceptions to very important, suddenly emerging questions, which can never be ruled out. But suddenly and again, there can't really be a talk here. I'm saying it's the 6th day. ==References====External links== On 1 November and on 1 November the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, if all these points were correct, why this should now be negotiated differently in plenary as originally planned, then you would have that on the evening of the 1. The Commission will be able to report to the other political groups on December. I do not believe that we have recently reached an agreement on this issue. But now, today in the morning, not to disagree with the Presidential Protocol to this day – no, I'm sorry, but we won't agree to the SPÖ's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7082	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We come to the two votes I shall take separately. We come to the first request, namely to raise the point 14 of the agenda as item 5. Whoever agrees to this arrangement and thus takes into account the objections, I ask him for a sign. – These objections do not find a majority and are therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the summary of agenda items 12 to 16. I would ask those Members who want to take these objections into account, i.e. to enter into a separate debate on the two agenda items in order to give a sign of approval. – This request too remains in the minority and is therefore rejected. This leaves the agenda for today's sitting in writing. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7130	Before entering the agenda, some communications. Deputies Mag. Before entering the agenda, Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues asked for the self-employed person tabled at the same time, Amendment 742/A (E) by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on 2005 – the worst year for women in the labour market to be dealt with urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent request will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7158	I would also like to say that honourable Member Mag. Terezija Stoisits, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 732/A (E) by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, Members of Parliament on the initiation of a procedure pursuant to Article 142(2). 1 lit. e B-VG against the head of the state of Carinthia for a period of up to 20 years. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure request to hold a brief debate on this request for deadlines. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7191	The Members of Parliament also have power. Ulrike Lunacek, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure requests the use of a Committee of Inquiry on Illicit Trade in Austrian Visual Notices and Years of Verification Failure by Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote on this request shall take place after completion of the agenda. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7218	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2, 5 to 7, 8 and 9 as well as 21 to 23 of the agenda should be summarized. Points 12 to 16 are also discussed under one. It was decided in the vote. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7249	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 and Green 117 minutes. That's what the Hoge Haus decides. We shall come to the vote. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – The sign is given unanimously. That is why we are doing so. [[11:32:52]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1188, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Security Police Act (SPG-Novelle 2006) (1226 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues on security concept for EURO 2008 – Safety at sporting events (1228 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7301	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There has been a clear absence of oral reporting. Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz speaks with colleagues in the political groups]] His welcome address: Seven minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7334	Thank you so much for taking off! I'll be right back to the novel of the Security Police Act. If there is a law of this kind, it is always good to ask, with new fundamental rights intervention, for new surveillance measures, what the government wants to know, what the government does not want to know and what the government already knows, but should not know. But I would like to make a small comment on the safety culture before, as was noted in the previous debate. I asked the simple question if you could find terrorists with video surveillance cameras in the furniture house of Kika. And in a remarkable technical call for action, Mr Fekter of the ÖVP pointed out to us: Why not, when there are some! This is the way in which the ÖVP operates security policy today. We assume that there are no terrorists in the Kika furniture house. The ÖVP says: We can't rule it out. These wall cabinets, these hiding possibilities and so on – we must have video data. We cannot rule out drug dealers staying in shopping malls and so on. So let's go back to the beginning. Why does the government want to know whether terrorists and drug traffickers are going to stop in certain places if there is a clear assumption that there is no there because internal security services of these institutions will ensure that drugs are not dealt with or terrorist attacks are prepared? And it is also important to ask what the government wants to know, and not what the criminal police want to know, because the most important innovations in this security police law do not go back to the criminal police initiatives. The officials of the Criminal Police, whose high professional qualifications are beyond dispute for all of us, have been pointing out for months, in some cases even for years, that they have never asked for further comprehensive surveillance measures to be provided. And that has a very simple reason. Ask the officials of the Federal Criminal Office! If the now still have to evaluate video data from shopping centres, from subways, from garages, do you think they have any chance to get out with their working time? The officials of the Criminal Police, especially in the field of economic and wealth crimes, are already so overburdened that they have long been appealing to us, the legislators and legislators, with every diffuse monitoring instrument, where no targeted group is observed, not being persecuted by any suspects, but suspecting the entire population to stop and not to think of monitoring even more people, with even less chances of finding anyone who does not know who he is and what crime he or she should have committed. The problem is that, in a previously unknown way, you combine a complete overload and exaggeration of officials with an previously unknown, very widespread intervention into the privacy of the people in Austria. So what does the government want to know? – All that there is in motion data in this Republic, call data recovery. If the Commission of the European Union had not prevented our Minister of Justice and our Minister of the Interior from tracking mobile phone data for three years. Movement data, social contacts. - No one can say what to do. It is spoken of by “terrorists and terrorists”. – They don’t use the phones under their own names! More than 300 million people were in danger of monitoring their data in this way. Not Austrian members of the government have protected the European Commission and the European Parliament. If there are still some partners today who help us protect fundamental rights and privacy, then it is the European institutions like the Commission and then it is Parliament in particular. Parliaments are the last place of fundamental rights in Europe. After a large part, in particular the conservative but sometimes also the socially democratically-led governments in the fundamental right area have largely abandoned old liberties, it is only national parliaments and the European Parliament that protect fundamental rights. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now I'm asking the opposite question: What the government doesn't want to know? Why does the government not want to know who applied for a visa to Austria three years ago? Why are the documents on visa applications to Austrian consulates and messages still being destroyed after a year? Why can't the criminal police check this out? Why are the electronically stored civil airspace data deleted in Austria the only state in the world after half an hour? Why do we have electronic surveillance data, for example, for CIA flights for only half an hour? – We have the obligation to delete this data for a year! Do you know what the Austro Control is doing under the protection of the Austrian Federal Government, and here the Vice chancellor? - Hole strips! 1.2 million hole strips per year. If you wanted to check illegal CIA flights today – which this federal government still refuses – employees of the Austro Control would have to evaluate 1.2 million hole strips because you refuse to store these security data on computers. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the data of civil aviation, the flight plans are stored for more than five years! And the Federal Republic of Germany – if you would like to know about it, Mrs Innenminister – could inform us today about what took place as civil CIA flights from the Federal Republic of Germany over Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Yes, Fischer and Schily...!]] – With us: Loft strips! No problem for you: Fingerprints from all, mobile data from all – but flight data for half an hour, visa data a year. And you don't want to know anything about the money data, the money import data of organized crime, the Mafia and the terrorists' financiers! If someone lands in Schwechat today with a one million dollar suitcase, and that's what the border officer sees: No declaration! Welcome, Mr. Financier! Welcome to $1 million! Yes, if you don't want the terrorists and the criminals, why do you want the money of the criminals and the terrorists and their financiers? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] Why Demand You're not a declaration? Why Give Are you not following the suggestions of the European Union and the USA? Why Refuse Are you trying to clarify illegal actions over the Austrian airspace as well as international illegal money flows? Why is Austria still a paradise for criminal money washers? These are the questions to be asked about information policy. Why always just prints? Why only the data of unwarranted and unspoilt people in Austria – and why not really the sensitive data, where crime arises, and where crime is imported into Austria? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because you should also take care of these airspace data and because we have to rely on a security police law to be implemented in an international culture of rule of law, and because we need reliable partners all over the world, especially in the European Union and in the USA, to implement this security police law, we are submitting a request to support an important security policy mission of our Federal Chancellor as a resolution. I read to: [[Quoted print version removed]] I expect – and I think that is a matter of course – unanimous support of this request as a sign of support for the Federal Chancellor's mission as future President of the Council on 8 May. December in Washington and I am pleased to be able to thank you in advance for this support – thank you. [[Abg. Hornek: A dreamer...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7439	Mr Mister Pilz, whether or not I do not know if your request is sufficiently supported, because it does not appear to me in writing. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: He's up!]] But I assume that the text you have read is identical to that which is now being presented to me, and I will be denied approval after the next speaker. The next speaker is Mr Kößl. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7473	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! With his speech, Mr Pilz proved that he did not recognize himself during the extended risk research. [[Abg. Steibl: That is often the case!]] This legislative innovation is not about video surveillance at Kika, but it is about the fact that serious violent crimes can either be encountered in the future preventively or the investigation of the perpetrators is facilitated. For everything that brings greater security to the population, it is the task of policy to create the appropriate framework conditions. As for the record records, Mr Pilz, you probably did not understand something: There are already these record records, they have been kept for three years and then deleted. This is also the case in the amendment to this legislative innovation. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Proper and honest security policy means recognizing the challenge of the future and facing this challenge. A particularly important challenge lies in our country in the first half of 2006, in which we hold the Presidency of the Council. During this period, we are in the window of Europe, and it is therefore important to create appropriate legal framework conditions so that the executive can act efficiently and quickly if there are threats to state visits or public life personalities coming to us in Austria. On the other hand, our country is the venue of the European Football Championship in 2008. We know that such events have a great attraction not only for those interested in sports, but also are always visited by violent persons, while innocent people always come to the handcush. I believe that it is also the task of the public authorities to protect those who attend a football stadium accordingly so that they can follow this football event with no interference. In both areas, both in the fight against terrorist threats and in the prevention of violence in the framework of major events, today's change of law is a step in the right direction, because our police officers need appropriate legal bases to be able to do their work efficiently and quickly. What does this legislative innovation involve? – Essential improvements in the field of advanced risk research. The executive will be able to use and process image and sound data recorded by private individuals in the future. The hidden investigation by audio or video recording will also be allowed. This possibility is particularly important when it comes to preliminary clarifications in the field of constitutional protection and the fight against terrorism. These extended possibilities of risk research are given only with the consent of the legal protection officer, who is subject to this law to a very substantial improvement. The second part of the amendment to the Security Police Act concerns increasing safety at major sporting events. In the future, there will be the possibility that up to 500 meters around the event location will be established security areas. There will also be the possibility of a Hooligan file, and for all violent persons there is in advance the possibility of a dangerous speech. It is very important to remove these people from anonymity and to come into contact with them accordingly so that they can be made clear to them what situations occur when they are again violent. Overall, we can be very satisfied with the change of law. We are giving the police good means to protect our citizens even better. There is no doubt that: We take the security need of the population seriously, and we are behind the executive – for more security in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7513	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. His preferred speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7534	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are facing the adoption of an amendment to the Security Police Act. In fact, as mentioned by my previous speaker, it is about the clarification and extension of advanced risk research. It is about video surveillance at international events, and it is about the possibility of improved monitoring at major sporting events. To my colleague, Mr Pilz, I would just like to say: While it is amusing to hear this applied dialectic, it was not coherent in all points. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Hornek.]] If you look at the advanced risk research so far, you have to say that there have been very few cases in Austria – on average one per year – and this shows that the state – in which form always forms – is doing very carefully with these means of control and monitoring. So Orwell doesn't say hello here. It is basically to be said – and this is where I am – that, under the impression of the events of “nine/eleven”, but also the terrorist attacks in Madrid and London, there has also been a sensitisation in Austria and, I would like to say, a security policy debate and still exists. One considers that, in the face of this undoubtedly existing new potential of danger, fundamental rights must be remedied, damaged, and the State must be given all possible means of intervention. This direction, I would say, belongs more to the government parties. The others think it must stay the way it is, or even that even this might go too far, so want to turn something back. From my point of view, this direction of thinking belongs more to the smaller opposition party. We Socialists believe that there must also be a third way, a way that guarantees fundamental rights to 100 percent, but in which one is aware of the potential for danger and clearly advocates the State's monopoly of violence – and only for this. In my view, this is the way of the middle, which is the way of social democracy, and that is the only reasonable way. We have therefore decided to agree to this Security Police Act because, from our point of view, it provides a balance between maintaining privacy for citizens, maintaining fundamental and human rights, and at the same time ensuring that the executive also receives the instruments with which, if necessary, it can adequately ward off any threats. Therefore, in the negotiations on this Security Police Act, SPÖ has presented a 10-point programme that meets this objective – balance between fully protecting fundamental rights and combating the potential for danger. These ten points were for us a conditional sine qua non, and I am not prepared to say here that the Minister of the Interior has also taken account of these legitimate demands from our point of view – according to the draft assessment – and that we can thus come to a joint decision. In the centre, that is also said, is the so-called legal protection officer – a long-standing demand of the SPÖ, as far as his independence, freedom of guidance and, above all, his order ritual are concerned. This ensures that he must be appointed by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. This was a central requirement of the SPÖ, and without our consent this legal protection officer could not have become a reality either. It is, however, a central tool for To achieve a balance between fundamental rights and the threat that there may have been. I would like to add the following critically very briefly: If one had already responded to these demands, one would have saved a debate in the public. We stand by this law, even if it is not always emotionally easy. If Mr Klubobmann Molterer here, even in front of the television cameras, is saying things in the current hour where the SPÖ would not have agreed in the past, then I would already advocate a bit of honesty and openness in politics. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] We stand by this law because it is a good law, and you will always find our partnership across party borders, across opposition and government boundaries, if it makes sense for Austria if it makes sense for security in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7606	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall inform you that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Pilz, colleagues, on the performance of the security police tasks is only sufficiently supported on a legal basis and is therefore under negotiation. – By a mistake of the law firm, this request has not been sent to Parliament's office, but has been forwarded to me. So it was not the green club, but I who made the mistake. - Thank you many times. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7659	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7682	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already occurred in the current hour: This federal government, which we support, has set itself the goal of fighting crime and reducing crime in Austria – in the interests of the Austrians. The fact that crime now goes different ways or has a new face makes the fight against crime more difficult than some years ago. Seven or eight years ago, no one believed that Europeans must be afraid of terrorist attacks. The Hooligans played a small role. – All of this has gained in importance, and that is why we also need to go new ways to combat this crime. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is the new way forward in the extended investigation of the danger, which we are now deciding on by this law. It is about giving the executive new opportunities to expose terrorist attacks. In the run-up to what they are so to speak, there may be the hope of finding a terrorist group. Mr. Dr. Pilz, your polemics in this context is completely inappropriate. You think you can joke about everything and mock at everything. But that's not a mockery! Especially when we look at those countries where there has been terrorist attacks, we must recognise: There were victims of human life, and that's what we want to prevent! And you know: In London – this is not exactly the case we are talking about today – the video recording was an essential part of the means that have helped to find out the terrorists, the perpetrators. – We simply want to do everything we can to strengthen the security of the population! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is very "net" that Mr Mister Pilz is concerned about the working time of the criminal police, but on the other hand, what we are thinking is how we are doing. Now, for example, it is not possible for the executive to make video recordings as hidden investigators, to make image recordings if they have a bit of suspect. Of course, there must be a reasonable suspicion that it is a criminal organisation or actions of a criminal nature. But this image material is very important, because you can make comparisons. You can take an insight into maps, into the databases and look at: Are these people already conspicuous? Do we have to be careful? – So it is about: that presumptuous perpetrators should be discovered in advance. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Dr. Pilz said you're looking beyond the visa affair and not going after her. - There's a trial pending! It is not only in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that a body is responsible, but it is a court proceedings pending in the criminal court to check what it has done in criminal acts, or whether the suspicion has hardened itself, Mrs Deputies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek]] It's all up to date. We do not need to discuss the fact that something is being disregarded in this regard. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that advanced risk research is, of course, an intervention into fundamental rights is quite clear and obvious. But: We must be aware of the fact that freedom and security are There are enormous tensions and that freedom can only be lived if security is guaranteed. We all know: ==References== September in New York no longer trusted people on the street, because fear of further attacks existed, that is, one has nothing of freedom if the security is not given. And security must also be strengthened by such measures as we decide today. It is precisely because this is an intervention into fundamental rights that we have here again anchored the establishment of the legal protection officer in order to verify an objective body: Is it necessary for the executive to use this extended risk investigation or not? . We trust the legal protection officer, who has no interest at all in granting something that would not be right, but the legal protection officer is obliged to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the executive will also consider: Isn't there any other ways? Is it not already done with observation or any other action to get a culprit on the trail? – This hidden investigation by video recording is, as it were, the last means of preventing it. I see my speaking time is about to end. I would just like to mention that we had an important expert hearing on this law, in which Professor Funk took part for the Greens. And even Professor Funk had nothing to do with the causes of the law – that is, why you do such a thing – but he meant that the law was too little determined. But I have made it clear to him that there is often a lack of determination, especially in the case of criminal offences, because it is not possible to describe the specific facts very precisely. By the way – the SPÖ to the comfort –: As early as 1999, there was a draft, a presentation for advanced risk research under a SPÖ-led government. This is what Professor Funk worked on! This means that no concerns should be expressed by this side either: neither from the SPÖ side nor from the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen! My subsequent speakers will certainly still talk about safety at sporting events. – I am convinced that by this law we are setting another mosaic in the effort to fight crime. That's our stated goal!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7776	Mrs Prokop spoke next. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7798	High house! I should also like to comment briefly on the following: I believe that this law has succeeded – and I would like to thank you for that – in bringing the right balance between fundamental rights in general and the fundamental right to security. It has also been pointed out – and I would also like to thank you for this – that the current possibilities under the Security Police Act have already been and will be dealt with very sensitively. But I would also like to make one clear: Mr Pilz has said that in this case Austria wanted a three-year storage of the data. It's in the protocol. can be read that both Mrs Gastinger and I have always entered the Internet data for a storage of six months and for the phone data for a storage of twelve months. As the decision now looks, no one has been pruned back by the Commission or disabled by Parliament, but it has actually been returned to the national level. There is the possibility of storing data between 6 and 24 months. We then have to decide accordingly. I believe that this too is a reasonable way because everyone has to decide according to their circumstances. With this law – and I believe you have to point out – we have the opportunity to give the best possible security guarantee at large events, in large events of a variety of kinds, but especially at sporting events. We also have the possibility of increasing the use of terrorist prevention in the context of advanced risk research. This is something very important in today's situation! It has been, and I think this is also very important, that control rights have been clearly enhanced, namely the control rights of the legal protection officer, who is bound by the Constitution. All of this is internationally recognized and can be seen. Finally, I would like to thank you for the discussion in the framework of this legislative process, a thank you for the broad cooperation in this area. I simply think it is necessary and I thought it necessary – even the hearing has contributed to this – that experts have expressed their opinion on it. With these instruments, we will try to guarantee security in Austria in any form and in any case.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7846	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7867	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Pilz, the motion for a resolution you have tabled is unnecessary because the Austrian Chancellor calls on Mr Bush, on his trip to the United States, to point out that in Austria Austrian security authorities and intelligence services work exclusively according to national and international standards, is unnecessary, because that is of course. – This is something you can fail to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the Security Police Act is an important addition. The three major areas of large-scale sporting events, enabling advanced risk research and strengthening the role of the legal protection officer will take account of the major events and international conferences that will take place in Austria in the future. EURO 2008 is at the doorstep, with it a major security challenge. In addition to the large number of football fans, there are always small groups of more or less violent people who let their aggressions run free. A large group of Hooligans can already be excluded by the newly created possibility of the regulation of a safety zone within a maximum of 500 metres around the venue. The central collection and storage of violent agents at major events – a so-called Hooligan file, in which can be recorded both domestic and foreign Hooligans in the future – thus becoming an effective instrument for preventing violent conflicts. The objective of the measure is to identify rapidly the potential for violence in and out of Hooligan and to develop effective counter-strategies to protect peaceable fans. The fact that such measures take place, for example, shows the UK, where all previously violent people are recorded and kept away from the events. As part of the forthcoming EU Presidency, but also with a view to future expected international conferences, the use of image and sound recording is an effective tool for expanded risk research. The terrorist attacks in London, which must be strongly condemned, showed that the perpetrators could be investigated on the basis of images and gained new insights into the fight against terrorism. The additional possibility of the use of third-party records and data material takes account of the needs of pre-reconnaissance and anti-terrorism. The new measures shall be subject to the supervision of the legal protection officer and his two alternates, who shall be able to carry out their duties independently and wisely. They are appointed by the Federal President on a proposal from the Federal Government for five years. The amendment to the Security Police Act extends and constitutionalizes the powers of the Legal Protection Officer. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) All these measures contribute to ensuring that Austria remains one of the safest countries in the world and continues to be safeguarded for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7925	The next item is the speech by Mr Parnigoni. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7946	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The social democrats – I have said this today – are about the security policy of the people. However, it is also a matter of balance between the measures – on the one hand, all those measures that serve security, on the other hand, but also legal protection on the other. To give the executive the necessary instruments into the hand, that is one. This is what we have done in setting up the protection zones, which we have done in the video surveillance of specially marked places. Now there are the new possibilities to take appropriate measures, for example at major events, and to create a Hooligan file. It is now also possible to carry out an extended risk research to improve the fight against terrorism. The fundamental rights are very important to us. Therefore, as my previous speaker has just said, this legal protection officer, who is independent and constitutionally secured, must have every opportunity to review, approve, cancel or award the order for file deletion. It is important that we also have such an instrument in the field of justice, but also in the field of national defence. In any case, we want to get together. ................................................................................................................................................................ Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth mentioning: With all the new possibilities for the executive, it is clear and important that it must have the necessary staff to fulfil these tasks. I can't do that without it! How many areas of protection do we really have? How many places are currently being monitored? How much staff is available for this? – That must also be part of this policy. Last point. Mr Partik-Pablé, I was somewhat confused by your remarks. They have said that the geopolitical situation has changed several years ago. It clearly changed in 1989, 16 years ago. After that, there has also been a significant increase in the crime. However, this has been handled by the end of the 1990s. And now, Mrs Partik-Pablé, you are guilty that in Austria we have such a bad criminal statistics and a very low intelligence rate, because you have contributed to the fact that we have fewer executive officers by 3,000. They pursue a wrong policy as do the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e7997	The next item is the speech by Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8019	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If Mr Parnigoni is speaking here of declining numbers of officials, I would just like to tell him that he may sleep a little better today, that at present 800 executives are in training, which will be available very soon to increase security in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: And how many went into retirement?]] It must also be borne in mind that crime, especially as regards the invading offences, which are very likely to be the result of the opening of borders, is not much to be done. And here's your party, one that's not particularly restrictive about such things. As far as the new Security Police Act is concerned, I would like to address the sporting events a little. It is unfortunate that it is no longer possible for the Austrians, for example for a mother with her child who wants to watch a football game, to do so in a safe way. The violence by organized groups, whose only intention is not to look at the football game, but to marginalise at the stadium, is extremely high. To meet this, this new Security Police Act offers different solutions. For me, a very essential solution is the so-called dangerous approach, which now allows the executive officer not only to turn someone out of his mind because of his personal experience and from his stomach, but also to do something like this at all. This makes it possible to increase safety 500 meters around a stadium. Nevertheless, we are well aware - Mr Maier has mentioned this in the Committee - that there are further problems in the area of public places, where videowalls are not regulated for the audience. There, too, the executive is called to ensure peace through more presence. But the concentration of people in a stadium, where 20,000 to 50,000 people are in one place, is much higher. In my opinion, however, it is important that the Bundesliga or the ÖFB or the organizers of other sporting events are really aware of the problem of the willingness of individual groups to violence and also constructively cooperate with the Ministry of the Interior in order to facilitate the application of the measures, especially in the case of stadium bans. Of course, for business reasons, you always have to weigh between what you can imagine the fans, and what is still reasonable. But at the moment I cannot fully recognise from your side the will to support the Minister for the Interior in this matter a hundred percent. I think there's still a need to catch up here. I have full confidence in the Minister of the Interior that she will also be able to deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8061	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Kapeller. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8083	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The daily life of a criminal police officer looks such that he is more and more confronted with perpetrators who know all the rights but no duties. The potential for violence is increasing permanently. There are inadvertent people, terrible situations that must be resolved by the police, by our colleagues within a few seconds, without being allowed to look into a book without being able to obtain legal opinions. I think it is so far back today that prevention measures are decided to ensure that crimes can be prevented in advance, just before they take place. Any prevented crime does not need to be resolved. Above all, however, every crime that has happened causes suffering – suffering that goes against humans. One can explain crimes, but the subjective sense of security can never be returned to people. As a criminal police officer, I believe that it is important to ensure that all the measures that a rule of law allows are applied in a preventive manner in order to prevent such crimes, so that they do not happen. I think it's all better for people to be protected from such crimes. I would like to address Mr Pilz very briefly. I couldn't follow him when he said that in furniture houses no terrorist attacks could happen or no terrorists could be. Everyday, reality proves something different. I could not follow him when he claimed that the criminal police do not want any preventive measures as they are decided today. I don't know who he's talking to. I think, Mr Pilz, your security policy is a lobbying for those who endanger our society. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What the hell is called “Lobbying for those who endanger our society ”? Save it!]] Finally, I would like to say one more thing – and I will do it again afterwards: Austria is in international comparison a safe country, a clean country, a clean country and a country with incomparable quality of life. Even companies, as was once again known yesterday, decide on the Austrian site on the basis of this quality of life. This is our Austria: worth living and loving!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8119	The next speaker was Mr Gaál. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8159	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Fauland, it is true that 500 pupils are in education in the police school – unfortunately not 800 – but it takes at least two years for them to be available. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] In the meantime, however, 700 officials are retired. And today the majority of the government will decide on a plan of work that will bring us a minus of 950 officials. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the church in the village! There are no executive officials in Austria, there are 1,000 officials in Vienna alone. So there's a lot more to do here. Mrs. Federal Minister, in this Security Police Act-Novelle – you have already spoken about it – it is about prevention, preventive monitoring measures at sporting events and international events, in particular the increased prevention of terrorist activities. The focus is on international cooperation. Our constructive contribution is needed. We must continue to remain a reliable, predictable partner in Europe, and for this we have to create security police conditions throughout Austria. There's still a lot to do, Mrs. Federal Minister. You have our support. I can only recommend that you include our proposals and suggestions in your conceptual considerations, what you have done in the Security Police Act-Novelle. Our demand catalogue has been found in this novell input. The focus is on the legal protection officer, equipped with comprehensive powers, with constitutionally guaranteed independence and freedom of guidance. We, ladies and gentlemen, want to set up the institution of the Legal Protection Officer on a broad basis, even within the framework of the Austrian Federal Army, in the form of an accompanying legal protection, as comprehensive as before. We will send a request catalogue to the Federal Minister for Defence. We are talking about improving safety. We are willing to cooperate constructively in the interests of the security of the Austrians with you, Mrs Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8200	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8221	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We can all observe violent outrages and terrorist attacks in the media. Fortunately, Austria – that is what we can say – has so far gone from exploiting violence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. However, we must not allow ourselves to be unrelentingly watched, but we must take measures to prevent an escalation, as it already existed in other EU countries. With this novel to the Security Police Act, we do this. Especially with regard to the forthcoming EU Presidency of Austria, but also with regard to the European Football Championship in Austria, we must now act. Europe-wide is one of the most important objectives of implementing measures to prevent and combat terrorism and violent outrages. With this law, we give the security authorities the means to effectively address violent conflicts. Violent activities and outpourings at major events are a major problem again and again. This new law will enable a security area to be created by means of a regulation around 500 metres around the venue, for example a stadium. It is also planned to create a so-called Hooligan file. In my opinion, this is very important in terms of football Europe championships. With the help of this new file, well-known Hooligans can be quickly identified and, if necessary, rejected from the venue. In this file, violent foreign fans will also be noted, because we need safe stages in the future, at which the football enthusiasts like to come. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, in order to extend the provisions of the Security Police Act to the fight against terrorism and also to the fight against violence around stadiums, it is important that a consensus be reached in this Security Police Act-Novelle also in Parliament. I am pleased that the SPÖ has already agreed to this new law in the Committee on the Interior. But I don't understand at all that the greens can be against it. The aim of this amendment is not to violate the privacy of citizens, but rather to: This novel provides more security and prevents violent outrages and terrorist attacks. The measures provided for will be subject to the accompanying control of the legal protection officer. This will in no way limit the personal freedom of the righteous people in Austria. I would like to give my approval to this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8269	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8291	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! This amendment to the Security Police Act has a number of points that require critical objection. In the hearing of the Security Police Act, Professor Adamovich said that the principle of proportionality is a very difficult and border crossing is never quite simple and that, if necessary, the Constitutional Court will have to decide in this causa. He also said that, although he could not find evident fundamental violations, it did not mean that they did not exist, because, in particular, in the Security Police Act, determination was particularly difficult and it would tend to intervene in principles, but one could not compensate everything with the institution of the Legal Protection Officer. Similarly, Professor Funk argued that the risk prognosis was diffuse and speculative, and that many definitions were based on popularity. In a similar way, the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service has also argued, in particular with regard to the The field of pre-storage research has meant that further expansions should be examined particularly carefully in terms of their proportionality. The Data Protection Council has also raised similar objections. He said that, in the future, the instrument of the so-called hidden investigator in the field of advanced risk research was very problematic, because, in the introduction of extended risk research by legislators, the instrumentarium had deliberately limited to that of observation, because the observation itself was a heavy intervention into privacy. That means: A very high level of responsibility has been placed on the legal protection officer from the outset, because he will have to assess very complex and very diffuse facts. Therefore, it is not only the question of the efficiency of the legal protection officer, who will only have to control the entire police unit if he does not want to go to the Farce and get away with it. In principle, therefore, given the experience of Operation Spring and the like, the question arises whether it would have been wiser to standardize objective grounds for intervention for the police, which also protects them, so that the police do not finally have to stand up for what the legislator has failed to do, and thus not end the successive restriction of freedom where, in the so-called fight against terrorism, a completely unparticipant by targeted headshot of the police, is executed by the state. This is the side of the London fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8333	The next speaker is Mr Pack. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8354	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This amendment concerns measures to prevent violence at major events; many of my predecessors have used the word “prevention measures”. Anyone who is often at the football court experiences, for example, at the games of the Bundesliga – but that starts already in the lower leagues – disturbances. You can call this trouble peace Hooligans, Randaliers or whatever. Especially for such a major event, such as the 2008 European Football Championship, which takes place in Austria and Switzerland, we need to be prepared accordingly. Making preparations also means, of course, that we are looking at how other countries are doing, and in 2006 there will be a very good example of this, namely the World Championship in our neighbouring country Germany. It will be important – and Mrs. Federal Minister has been concerned about this – that our officials share their experiences with the German colleagues that they will analyse the problems facing the Germans. Important measures are the creation of a Hooligan file and the creation of a security area around 500 metres around the venue, for example around the stadium. But at such large tournaments there is the problem that fans not only come to the stadium, but also gather in many guest gardens where there is a video wall. In Germany, it will be closely monitored whether problems arise in these collections of people and how best to deal with them. There are already a number of measures that the executive can take in such a case – in order to calm down for some who see this as the very big problem. It is important that the European Championship be successful and that it is pleasant for the fans to go to stadiums and not fall over all kinds of security hats.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8397	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8418	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have found it remarkable that according to the Committee's government paper or report, the first reason for this law is that "the aim of this bill is to better prevent violence at major sporting events". After all, a few speakers have already said something about this, but the whole discussion is focused on something completely different. It is not quite possible to hide the impression by, as it were, putting the 2008 European Football Championship's coat on the issue of the decision to take measures that are to be taken in different areas, because for a major event, these measures could be decided for a limited period of time and not, as is the case in this novel. If, as it is said, it is also a matter of limiting violence in Austria at sporting events, especially in football events, then the question arises: What is reality now? Since I am regularly involved in the Bundesliga football games, buy the cards there, and am not in the VIP area, I can get a little more of what is going on there. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Follower of?]] – Pleasurely from Austria Vienna. – But back to the sporting event: Last Vienna Derby: Austria against Rapid. In view of the events surrounding it, the question arises whether it would require more opportunities for the executive to intervene effectively. What happened there? – There would have been almost no game, because at the beginning of the stadium about 50 light rockets were shot at the players, after an escalation that took place in advance, and a player from Austria Vienna reacted completely unacceptablely after a brutal foul and staged a brutal foul on a rapid storm. This one can be pictured with scarves, where this Foul scene was on it and where he rejoiced about it. By the way, this has also been tolerated by the clubs. There is already the question: Where was the intervention, where was it said: Stop it, you can't do it!Unknown term type: "%s".? This player – you can read this in the “Kurier” – has withdrawn from the police's consent, he has not appeared to it. Although the police know that he is to be found at the Horr Stadium every second Saturday, it is not worth the police going there and questioning him there. I think the possibility of withdrawing from the agreement would be very limited if this player could simply and simply not participate in the next championship game because he is heard by the police. But this measure will not be taken at the moment. You might be able to put pressure on and prevent such scenes from happening. What happened there after the game? – I then drove from the stadium by public transport to the Reumannplatz. On this route about 15 times the tram has come to stand, because fellow fans have pulled the hand brake every 5 meters. This journey was probably accompanied by the police, but there was apparently no reason for them to take action. [[Abg. Hornek: What did you do?]] - Listen now! When the fans got out of the Reumannplatz, the wheel guides – and you can see that quite clearly from the tram – were hopped onto the hood of the parking cars at the pedestrian crossing. Then, by the way, they -- they were Austria's adherent -- so I'm easier to say, as I'm so to speak, so to speak, so to speak, a woman who has tied a rapid shell down this bowl and burned down holes in these lighters and burning cigarettes. When she tried to defend herself and after the Austrian scarf of the wheel leaders, she was also covered with footsteps. Getting Now They ask: What's that got to do with the police? – I can tell you: A lot!, because next to that, about 15 executives have stood up, they have watched and have said to the guy who has done this: You don't step on a woman! That was the whole reaction shown by the executive in this football game. What answer do you have for such a thing: You come with a video surveillance therefore, with measures where you say: You have to be able to monitor the whole mass, everything that is happening there! The answer to the question put by Mr Maier shows that no data on the second league is collected, although it is known that violence has occurred and that no data are collected as to whether associations have returned ad. You won't charge it. You don't even know which club has paid an advertisement. No stadium bans are imposed – something that would be an adequate measure. We know very well – and you also know – that it is going and going to be that the club presidents are giving up people who have been caught up in violence as quickly as possible. After the game Rapid versus Arsenal in Eisenstadt – that was a game of friendship with demolition – the wheel leaders were in the Rapid Secretariat days and weeks after that and they beg for the stadium again. The result was that they were back in the stadium after a few weeks. This is the procedure that is currently common. That's where the police look away as well as the clubs. But it's up to you to stop there. We do not need strict security police measures, we do not need to run a grid, but we need consistent action against violence in the football court, and that is what the clubs are responsible for. But you are also responsible for this in cooperation. But there's still too little going on.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8481	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8504	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We agree to the Security Police Act. Mr Darabos has already made very clear the reasons for this, including Mr Parnigoni, because we believe – and this separates us from the Greens – that such measures are necessary for top sports events, for large sports events. I am referring in particular to the great international meetings. I repeat what I have already said in committee: We have a social problem here. In the Czech Republic's match against Germany, it was not the unemployed who made scratches, but it was lawyers and university professors. We therefore believe that we must address this problem with repressive measures and, on the other hand, with preventive measures, such as with regard to the question of risk. High house! They used to say: Kapfenberg versus Simmering, that's brutality! If you look at the situation with other sports or, for example, at the Landesliga as in Vorarlberg, you can see how it really is. For example, in an APA report: “After the 0 : 0 football game of the Landesliga middle-classers Hella-Dornbirn and the Black-White follow-up club SC Bregenz, on Saturday evening in Dornbirn, there was a mass strike between the fan groups. The fists flew, even shots fell.” Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem: Violence in sport! Therefore, Mrs Federal Minister, we do not understand why the government parties do not agree with my request, which provides for a comprehensive study of violence in sport on the one hand and preventive measures on the other. We believe that such a study is absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, you will not agree to this request. I do not think there are any reasons for this. In conclusion: As a social-democratic group, after we agree to the SPG, we expect to see a change in the data protection law, which clearly regulates the conditions under which private image data may be identified and under which conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8545	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8566	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The example of Mr Brosz has shown that there is a real need for action. We need additional opportunities to address such dangers as Mr Brosz described earlier. We need to change the framework conditions in order to be able to cope with the danger potential that exists in the public sector, which is very often the result of such events. Mr Pilz has clearly opposed the surveillance, and in this context he has spoken of overburdening the officials. I think it is true that it is up to you to become active today with videos and with the use of computer in the field of crime control. If we did not have these new methods, the officials would be much more burdened today It will be the If they had to deal with the dangers in the field of crime with the old methods, they would be overwhelmed. With the new Security Police Act, it is likely that everyone who behaves properly has nothing to fear. We will be able to take preventive measures, and the video as evidence will be indispensable. This security police law is simply necessary because of the current situation. Public security is a command of the hour for us today – for this we have broad approval. We need security in all areas, and the new Security Police Act is an important basis for this. There is also a clear statement from the Constitutional Court President Adamovich that there is no imbalance between the powers of the police and the interests of the citizens for legal protection. That is why we are happy to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8605	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8627	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Some of my previous speakers have already mentioned this: Fundamental rights issues are always very sensitive questions. We always have to consider exactly what measures to take. I believe that this law has made a proper compromise. The centre is, as it were, the legal protection officer, which is why social democracy has already signaled its approval in the Committee. This shows us, Mrs Prokop: If you see the concerns and needs of the Austrians accordingly and together you look for solutions, then you get good results. Ladies and gentlemen! Legal measures are one – enforcement is the other! I am curious about how you will take care of the necessary staff in particular at large sporting events to be held at four locations in order to ensure local safety. We are certainly talking about more than 1 000 officials, Mrs Minister, probably much more. To do this, you have to deduct executive officers from all over Austria, or – next variant, but I hope it won't happen – you demand foreign executives. The third option would be the private sector, but I believe that security forces are not available in such a high number even in the private sector in Austria. I ask you and invite you to discuss this important issue in the interest of the people in a timely and joint manner. There will be no way by, you will need these servants in Vienna, Salzburg, Innsbruck and Klagenfurt. We cannot assume that, as Mr Fauland has said, 800 officials are in training. We're happy, but that's about as many as we go to bed each year. The Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, has noted that the number of executive officials has fallen by 2,700 by 2004, including. If we take our projects seriously, we must also take care of them, and there the government groups are required that the Minister has available to the staff she needs in order to be able to fulfil the tasks.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8663	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law on SPG-Novelle 2006 and the title and receipt in 1226 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. I, in turn, expressly establish the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1226. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 156.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues, on the performance of the security police tasks only on a legal basis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is not the majority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1228. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[12:46:18]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1189, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the National Citizenship Act 1985 (StbG), the Reimbursement Act 1972 and the Fees Act 1957 (State Citizenship Law Novelle 2005) (1254 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8765	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. Mr Parnigoni is the first to speak. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8799	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Right ahead: The Socialists will not agree to this government proposal. The current citizenship law is practical and easy to handle. In our opinion, there would be a number of other materials that would urgently need a change. I am thinking, for example, of the non-social tax legislation we have in this country. The present draft law offers no improvement in terms of integration. Not less, but more integration is not the dish, but the key to a peaceful society. [[Abg. Scheibner: What was that now?]] But you, ladies and gentlemen, bring Scheinsel workers into the country, ruining the wages of Austrian workers. With your visa shop, you can open the door and gate for criminals, but the people who have been living and working here for years make it difficult for you to access citizenship with all your strength. – That’s the wrong way, and we don’t carry it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The number of naturalizations, ladies and gentlemen, has fallen significantly in this year. From January to September, the number of citizenship fell by 14.7 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. We will reach, for example, the level of 2002 in 2005, and this is a significant decline in citizenship. The implementation of the new law, as the government parties imagine it, will lead to an extremely high administrative burden. In a hearing that we have held, the experts have found, among other things, that some 20,000 tests would be necessary in Vienna alone. Also, serious funding is not guaranteed in this law. Instead of the introduction of the learning of federal history facts, it would of course be much more useful – as expert Bauböck in the Hearing meant – to demand, for example, a practical knowledge of the Austrian institutions or the knowledge of democratic values. This innovation also increases the fees for citizenship aspirations. Despite the reduction in planned fees following protests, the award of Austrian citizenship for children with high costs remains linked. It is also very difficult for us to see that the proof of secure living is built in a form that does not take any account of those citizens of citizenship who are in no fault of their own. High house! We do not think a change in the law of this matter makes sense, and it is also due to the SPÖ that the first draft, which has been examined, has at least been declared the greatest dispassion. Ladies and gentlemen, in drawing up this unbridled legislative matter, and to stress that is very important to me, the affected federal states that have to manage this law – the federal government only provides the framework, the implementation is exclusively with the countries – have not been included in any way. That is also the reason why we do not give this novelle our consent. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the following conclusion remains: With this novel, the ÖVP again shows quite clearly that it has moved away from the middle, that it has left the political center and only grows around the right edge with the FPÖ. But this is not our policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8847	Mr Lopatka is speaking as the next speaker. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e8869	Mr Parnigoni, your final sentence was re-explaining. They really are about ideology, about the right, about the left edge – we're about the matter! That makes the difference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not about the right or the left margin, but it is about the right action being taken by us where there is a need for action. This law of citizenship is another right step in order to achieve a comprehensive regulation in this area, which is really necessary, in line with the foreign and integration package that we have decided here in October. Citizenship is a key element in integration. We must therefore be very careful that we do not cross borders. What do I mean by that? – Austria has done more than 400 000 citizenship over the past 25 years. And you have to put that in relation to our population. Example Burgenland: 277,000 inhabitants, for example Vorarlberg: 351,000 inhabitants. – If the neo-Austrian inhabitants were located in a federal state, this would be as large as our two, according to the number of inhabitants of the smallest federal states. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What do you want to say?]] What do I want to express? – Austria has a huge degree of integration, but we must not extend it, I would like to express it. No more and no less, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not need to let anyone blame us for being xenophobic and without enormous integration. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible!]] We must not, however, overreact to the Austrians. That's the point. You don't want to see them, but we'll see them in time. We do not want a Parisian state, we do not want parallel cultures where people who are not powerful in our German native language live. That is why we want these measures to be implemented. You do not understand, but I tell you, those who still have many in their country who want to come to us are still here. Recently, the Turkish Foreign Minister was in Berlin, and I would like to read to you a quote from the “Berliner Zeitung”. Turkish Foreign Minister Gül has been asked by the Berliner Zeitung: “Your head of government has announced that Turkey wants to actively support the integration of the Turks living here. What does that mean?" Gulle answers: “I also met the representatives of the Turkish Community on this visit. And I told them: You live here now, your first home is now Germany. To make you happy here, you need to fully integrate yourself. The first thing that belongs to it is very good to learn German. Social, economic and political participation is also very important.” Question from the Berliner Zeitung: “What measures do you want to help with this?” “The most important thing,” says Gül, “is to clearly take a position.” – You don’t! Go on: “I told people that they are making a mistake if they are too concerned about politics in Turkey. There is nothing to do with watching Turkish television here and knowing what is going on in Turkey. They must “understand what is here” – namely, in Germany – to the Turks who live in Germany, Gül says, “passes what is going on in their streets so that they can pass it on to their children. Of course, the German government must also help in this.” Mapped on Austria: Of course, the Austrian government must also help! That is why I have no understanding at all for you if you ignore these questions here. [[Abg. Oils: Who negates what?]] Again: Austria has a huge degree of integration, but we must not extend it to the extent that our citizens do not come along. [[Abg. Krainer: What does that mean? Less citizenship?]] – Yes, that means getting under control of this rise in citizenship. I'll tell you why. We had 77 000 citizenships from 1980 to 1989, 149 000 from 1990 to 1999 and 179,000 citizenships within five years. 179,000 citizens within five years! Do you want this number to continue to rise to this extent? Do you know what that would mean? That we do not have 40 000 in a few years, but 50 000, 60 000, 70 000 per year! [[Abg. Gaál: What do you suggest?]] [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all!]] We would not have this integration force, and therefore it is right to get on the brake in time and take it seriously, which means integration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm just calling a number. Vienna in 2003: 18 000 citizenships, and in only four cases there has been a lack of German knowledge. – Do you and the Wiener Stadtverwaltung take yourself seriously in view of such citizenship practice? [[Abg. Krainer: How does this look in Styria? Read the numbers from the Styria!]] It was necessary for the Federal Government to intervene here, ladies and gentlemen. It is necessary because we pursue three objectives with this law. The first objective is to strengthen incentives for integration. Take seriously what Foreign Minister Gül said in Germany! “The first thing that belongs to it is very good to learn German.” – Gül on 21. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Krainer: Don't tell fairy tales! You have no idea!]] Second point: In Austria there is a need for a uniform practice. This creates legal certainty and is correct. It makes no sense if in Vienna, naturalisations are much easier than in other federal states. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all!]] And third point: The improvement in the fight against abuse is, of course, also necessary. We fulfil these three points, the SPÖ is unable to go along. – We take note of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9035	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9066	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, that was not a sign of ignorance, but it was the political intention of this Federal Government. I would call Mr Lopatka a lot, but not an unsuspecting one. If he were unsuspecting, he wouldn't be dangerous. But with the knowledge he has, and with the political intentions behind this novel to the citizenship law, he is dangerous, and dangerous for that reason: It inhibits integration policy in Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In this way we can quite describe the political aspirations of this black and blue government. Already in 1978, ladies and gentlemen, there was a major innovation in the citizenship law. This novelle, which was at least as large as the one now present, is much larger, because it covered a much longer period in which there was no novel, has differed from today's essentially by the fact that it did not mean short-term, as I call it, right-wing populist intentions in the pursuit of objectives. At the time, it was the Federal Government – that was then a black and red federal government, if you remember – that party, which today almost closed the front against it, had been part of the Federal Government – to adapt deadlines for citizenship according to a European model. This approach of the time has failed. Already in 1998, the time limits for citizenship in Austria were designed in such a way that we are in the very last third of the Western European countries, in this case EU countries, with regard to citizenship periods. The full right to citizenship exists only after 30 years in this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! Do 30 years of waiting for citizenship have anything to do with integration policy? Mrs Minister, this is your idea of giving citizenship to someone after a successful integration process: 30 years are waiting for the claim or – if I now take the mildened variant of the claim – 15 years are waiting for the claim!Unknown term type: "%s".? My understanding does not, at any rate, correspond to the understanding of those who have reviewed your government proposal. I have hardly seen in a law that so comprehensively across all areas – both from science and practice, from the practice of those who work in consultative functions, but above all from the federal states that have to carry out this law – so many criticisms were unisono, above all about the expected “inadministrability” of this law, in the review process. And what did the Federal Government do? – It has not corrected those points which have proved to be negative in the review, but rather, quite the contrary, it has still doubled. In order to remain short in the picture you always draw, although I do not share it, namely that citizenship is the end of a successful integration process – it is precisely the opposite: Citizenship is part of the integration of foreigners in Austria, because citizenship is the instrument, the aliens who live here, but differ by the non-inheritance of the Austrian passport, only gives the essential prerequisite for integration, for being able to participate in the political process. There is no political participation in this country without a passport, for foreigners in Austria – exclusive EU citizens who are entitled to vote at the lowest level of political participation, namely at the level of municipal councils. By the way: totally regardless of whether they speak a word German or not, because you, Mrs. Minister, always meet that German knowledge is so essential to political participation in particular. In Austria, when someone comes from Poland or Portugal – to name the two most distant countries in the EU; I am now reporting only facts without giving an opinion – whether he can or cannot do German – that is not checked – to participate in the municipal council elections because he is an EU citizen. I think this is very good, ladies and gentlemen. One of the main arguments of this government is that, among other things, people have to acquire German knowledge in order to be able to participate in the political process – otherwise they might not be able to distinguish between Van der Bellen, Schusel, Haider and Gusenbauer! You can do it very well, ladies and gentlemen, because you also have to be able to distinguish between – who is mayor on this side now? – For example, an ÖVP mayor and a SPÖ candidate of a small Waldviertler municipality. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Abg. Hornek lifts a hand]] There too, it is necessary. That is why I support all the efforts that are part of the Austrian integration policy to support people who come to Austria and settle here permanently, in their efforts to acquire German knowledge. The Federal Government will receive every support from the Greens when it comes to promoting and supporting people in the acquisition of language skills, because the language is one of the most important and at all the most important means of communication. If, however, such growth occurs as in connection with the federal law presented by the Christian Social Minister Prokop, in which it is said that, if a primary student in German has a five-year-old, the naturalization of the whole family is stopped, then, Mrs. Minister, I would ask you once to imagine what a great responsibility is on a primary student of the first or second class who, with a negative note in German, prevents the naturalization of his entire family – no, not he prevents them from preventing them! [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] Imagine what a heavy responsibility it is for teachers who have to evaluate the children who are not yet Austrians in German! In the future, teachers in Austria will decide on the naturalisation of immigrant families. But for this, Mrs Federal Minister, the teachers are neither responsible nor prepared, nor are they paid to decide on the fate of whole families. But that's just a small part of this whole novel. But now let's assume that a immigrant family is still able to find a typical host family as we know it, or a family that came to Austria during the war events from Bosnia and has now passed the deadlines: Then what I think is the most objectionable thing in your templates you've brought, namely the fees. The fees are increased by hundreds of percent. The citizenship fee for a minor child is increased by 200 percent. 200 per cent, Mrs. Federal Minister! The naturalization fee for a wife or a husband – there is always, as it were, an anchor, the one seeking citizenship – is increased by 500 percent. Mrs Minister, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals you are bringing to Parliament are simply taken over by the political groups, such as those of Mr Lopatka or those of his blue-orange friends, without including the discussions and arguments; not even those arguments that have been put in the hearing of the Committee on the Interior. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: These are not blue-orange friends, these are only orange friends!]] This is the last proof that you are not concerned with the integration of immigrants in Austria. Because if you already create everything, the long deadlines, the obstacles, the German knowledge, then you also prevent the award of citizenship by thousands of euros that will cost it. Mrs. Minister! Every Austrian, every Austrian has to pay for a passport, absolutely clear. Every new Austrian also pays for the passport. This isn't the fee it's about here. This is about hundreds of euros per person. There, an average family – I am not talking about four or five children, but about the Austrian average with two children – can pay up to €4,000 in connection with their naturalisation of fees in Austria, federal fees and national fees. And that's not an extreme, it's a rule case. In addition, Mrs Federal Minister, the cost of the release from citizenship from the country of origin of the person concerned will be added. And then there are, now I come back to the starting point of today, Mrs Minister, countries with such conditions as Serbia-Crna Gora. I'm just saying, Keywords visa affairs. It's traded with visas, you can buy anything that's causing corruption like nothing in that country. And then you still support corruption in these countries by calling on citizens of citizenship to release from citizenship, thus supporting these criminal conditions – because corruption is crime – by still shrinking the neo-Austrian rich and by depositing hundreds and thousands of euros that cost it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Sure!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Please, citizenship is an important asset!]] I don't know, Mrs. Minister, whether you can imagine whether you've ever been in a situation in your life, in which it's about you being unable to pay something. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That explains a lot!]] I do not suspect that otherwise you would not have brought back to the Council of Ministers the increase in the fee which was not under review to which no one could express his views. I really think that is a political weakness that absolutely devastates your intentions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can, if you want to make the effort, read the divergent opinion of the Greens on this law, because that was an example of a total of ten points that we criticize on this novel. But I come to the end now to a different part. Ms. Federal Minister, the Greens have submitted a request to the Committee on the Interior, which is devoted to the 2005 commemorative year. This year a lot was thought of, very many people thought, but little action was taken. The fact that the Committee on the Interior or the Minister for the Interior has not acted here – I cannot say how much I can say – is reflected in the question that has often been raised in recent weeks and months, namely, how Austria is dealing with its past and what is called restitution; But restitution not only in the sense of damage, which is created and monetaryly measurable, but also with damage in the ideal sense, and as Austria tries to make it right – there is no complete restitution. There is a small area that costs nothing – zero cent costs it! – namely the recovery of Austrian citizenship for victims of National Socialism, for people who had been taken away from this citizenship, who had to flee from that country, and the God was happy to survive. If you were murdered, gassed, killed, then they would not be cases for restoring citizenship. They, their families and descendants, have survived God. There are gaps in the Austrian restitution policy in relation to citizenship, which the historians' Commission has already identified in its final report. And our desire, our request and our proposal to you was to close these gaps in order to make a gesture in the 2005 commemorative year, a sign of handing towards victims of nationalism and their descendants. As early as September, we submitted this in application form, but it was not even ignored by your side. That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Bundesminister, it is not a big heart to this, but only a sense of history in order to give this request the consent. This includes not only talking about the year of thought, bringing out notes and producing high-gloss paper, but it is a very concrete step to satisfy concrete victims of National Socialism and their descendants. Mrs. Federal Minister! That's what we're obliged to do! We don't even have the choice. That is the understanding of the reworking of history and the self-employment of history, which we Greens present to us, I hope, too, many colleagues in the National Council. I therefore ask you to agree to the setting of this gesture at the end of the 2005 commemorative year so that it does not pass on to us without doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9221	That of Mrs Magist. The amendment tabled by Stoisits is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore also in consultation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9276	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Provisions: first of all the facts to be corrected, then the corrected situation in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9306	Mr Lopatka said that it would be easier in Vienna to obtain citizenship than in the other Länder. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's right!]] I'm actually correcting: The Citizenship Act applies throughout Austria and is implemented by all national authorities, i.e. also by the Authority in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Practice!]] This can also be underlined by the two ministers present. It is therefore necessary to reject this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9367	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking as next speaker. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9388	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits, the concept of democracy that you have, is seen as dangerous if you call Mr Lopatka's political opinion dangerous. I say in connection with your requests and your ideas that they are absurd and non-worldly, but I would never say that they are dangerous. I would not use this expression when it comes to a political dissident having a different opinion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, Mrs Stoisits, it is our intention to tighten the citizenship law, to achieve that it is becoming more difficult to become Austrian citizens. We have seen in the past that many people acquire Austrian citizenship, that they make a request, although they are not integrated, although they cannot English, although they have not even had a long enough stay in Austria – in accordance with the law. 63 per cent of the previous year's population were pre-citizened – as the first cuts on family members are there – and only 36 per cent have reached the ten-year waiting period. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not even the legitimate stay in Austria had to be proved, but it was quite simply enough to stay by registration of the residence. It was not necessary to prove a regulated income that it was sufficient to provide social assistance as an income component. We know from a lot of information that the motivation for attaining citizenship is to get into the social network as quickly as possible, get a passport so that you can travel around more easily, and carry out the family estate. And we just want to limit that. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is also justified if one sees to what extent the number of citizenship has increased. Mr Lopatka has already said this: In 2000, there were still 24 000, but in 2004 42 000 people who received citizenship without having fulfilled great conditions. We also believe that citizenship is the end of successful integration and no means of integration. Of course, successful integration means that you can do German. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is the fact that a person who lives in Austria and wants to participate in political, social and labour-law life can be German. Mrs Stoisits, I am not in favour of EU citizens being allowed to vote with us, but it is quite simply EU law. I don't think that's what I'm saying. But if you say that someone who makes the request to become a citizen here is hindered by the exercise of his political rights, I must ask you: How does he want to exercise his political rights if he cannot speak the national language? He can't even tell himself what you need here, what you want. So I think the national language is quite simply the basic condition. The new citizenship law also includes the fact that the children of foreigners are not to be automatically put into place, but that the children should be legally resident in Austria for six years. What is very important is first of all the rightful stay – it is no longer that only the application is sufficient, but it must be a legal basis for the stay. I now come to speak to Mr Parnigoni. Mr Parnigoni, you said that this law is not at all necessary, we should rather amend the tax laws. – Mr deputies, this law will also lead to money being saved! So far, it was not necessary to prove a regulated income if one wanted to reach citizenship; it was simply the social support. We owe this to a knowledge of the Constitutional Court. – In the future, it will be necessary to actually have an income and not to rely on social assistance. I don't think we can afford to create people who just don't have anything at all and just want to drop into the social network. Administrative punishments have not yet been an obstacle to a naturalisation – also a recognition of the Constitutional Court. That too will change. In the future, serious administrative evasions are also an obstacle to citizenship. It is also very important that we meet with the citizenship law, because we now have to be married for five years and have a rightful stay in Austria for six years in order to reach Austrian citizenship. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Stoisits, you have said here that there is no relief for the NS victims. – That’s not true at all! There are enormous reliefs for the old Austrians. However, they want these reliefs to be extended to the descendants of those who had to leave Austria at the time. And we have not seen that we should allow these reliefs to apply to these persons. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, those who criticise this intensification of citizenship law obviously do so only because it does not give the Institute citizenship the right priority, because citizenship is – I have said this here – the final point of integration. Therefore: Only the one who admits to the Republic of Austria, who speaks the national language that can take part in the whole life here, is intended to receive citizenship. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] We don't want it to be the way an expert in hearing said: Now, if someone has been granted citizenship, the first way is to look at a passport, the second way to go to the Social Office and the third way of looking for how to make family members live. We had a detailed hearing on this issue in committee. Significantly, Vienna, honourable Member Krainer, has sent the head of the Citizenship Office as the only expert. This lady saw no need to change the citizenship law, but meant that it was all right anyway – and that, although there are most naturalisations and most early citizenships in Vienna. This expert, sent by Vienna, did not find this novel of citizenship law necessary. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's what it looks like in Vienna! The Doctor Partik-Pablé knows how this is in Vienna if...!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Krainer.]] In Vienna, only in five cases, due to lack of German knowledge, applications for the award of Austrian citizenship have been rejected. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] In the hearing, the Madame von der MA 61 said that it was not possible to really examine the grounds for refusal, and it was also a problem to ask the German knowledge because 16 000 requests had been made last year. I wonder how Vienna has done this so far, because even so far the German knowledge of the applicants should have been asked! So if this is a big obstacle and therefore not to be done, then I must say that Vienna obviously did not fulfil the obligation to review German knowledge in the event of a naturalization. These are the objections made by the city of Vienna. In Vienna, therefore, one wants to continue to be a citizen – and has no interest at all in the fact that those who are to be citizens can be German. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address some of the accusations here briefly because I do not want to go along with my own information to two Members of my group, because it is too restrictive for them. I would like to stress: We have taken advantage of the opportunities we have here in Austria to tighten up the citizenship law, but of course we have not broken international agreements. Of course, we will not act against the Geneva Convention, because in a democratic rule of law it would not be appropriate not to comply with international agreements. [[Complaints with the liberals as well as with representatives of the ÖVP]] That is why we must also – and I do not like to do so – adopt preferential rules for asylum seekers. So far, asylum seekers have been able to gain citizenship after four years. . We have extended this to six years, but under the guidelines of the Geneva Convention, we must create favourable conditions for attaining citizenship. We have seen no way to change this, but I would ask the Minister of Justice to address this issue on an occasion in Brussels, because those people who come to us and claim to be asylum seekers are not the refugees who were spoken of in the Geneva Convention at that time, but many of these people come to us for economic reasons because they want to improve their situation – and not because they are persecuted politically. [[Abg. Gaál: But they do not get asylum!]] Mrs Minister, I must say that too! [[Abg. Krainer: You will not believe that you get asylum for economic reasons!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The expert of the Greens, Professor Rainer Bauböck, has accused us in the hearing of creating one of the strictest citizenship laws in the European Union with this government template. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a contradiction in itself that a Green Expert is!]] . I recognise this, and I believe that it is necessary, in view of the facts, to give this bill the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9569	Mrs. Mag, the Federal Minister, has been reported next word. Gastinger. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9590	Madam President. Estimated government colleague! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The citizenship right to be decided in the National Council today is my conviction that an ambitious completion of a package of foreign rights, which is very well developed in cooperation. In this context, I call only the asylum and foreign police law already adopted or the right of establishment and residence. And now we've been working on innovation in citizenship as well. I am proud that my group has worked very actively on this; Mrs Partik-Pablé was with me in our negotiating team, and there we really managed in the negotiations to set very concrete accents. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] For us, it was always important not to criticize or delegate, but we have seen problems in practice – and together with the Minister for the Interior, Mr Prokop, we have developed a solution in the sense of the people in Austria. It has already been mentioned several times today why it was necessary to innovation citizenship law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we must have the figures spoken here. It has already been said by previous speakers that more than 60 percent of all naturalisations in Austria have taken place up to that time before the Ten-Year-Frist; only in 2004 this was the case with two thirds of all naturalisations. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Listen, hear!]] – So much for the claim that there would be no premature citizenship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Since 1990, Mr Lopatka has already mentioned this, the number of naturalisations in Austria has increased. That's a fact! [[Abg. Krainer: Because of the migration of ten years ago! There's a correlation!]] Furthermore, a fact – and we must also be aware of this – is that many of the people who are already citizens, unfortunately, God – I really must say – are not powerful in the German language. Mrs Stoisits has rightly argued that language skills are a very essential instrument of communication. It is also true, however, that only communication makes it possible and feasible to integrate successfully. The example of Vienna has already been mentioned several times. In Vienna, for example, there were 23 092 applications for the award of Austrian citizenship in 2003 – and only in five cases was such a request rejected for lack of knowledge of the German language. . I think these figures speak for this, too. In our opinion, it is particularly important – and this has already been mentioned several times, but I would like to emphasize this at this point, because I am personally convinced that the achievement of Austrian citizenship is the last step of successful integration in Austria. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, as I have said, citizenship is a particularly valuable asset; I would like to stress that once again. What incentive would a immigrant have if we were to give him citizenship virtually easily and then he would have all the rights very soon, without having to make any effort. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please go! What does it mean to “give it easy ”?- Oh, my God!]] Language skills are particularly important in order to be able to exercise rights in our country – including rights associated with citizenship. Unfortunately, God – we know that is a fact – many of the new Austrian citizens do not use their right of vote at all, and one of the possible reasons for this could also be that necessary language skills in order to actually exercise a right of vote are not available. That is why we see the new right of citizenship, with which language skills are also valued, not only in the interests of Austria, but also in the interest of our immigrants. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress: It is not only the Federal Government that sees it as important to shape the new citizenship law in this form, but also the Austrian population. As you know, there is an OGM survey, according to which the overwhelming majority of Austrians have voted in favour of this project by the Federal Government; 61% of the population were against this new citizenship package for and only 21% of the population. This was the result of an OGM survey; The client was the ORF. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Even clearer has been the result of this survey than the question of whether people want a German test to review the German knowledge of new citizens. Nine out of ten Austrians voted in favour. I therefore believe that we are really on the right track. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The new citizenship law, which is now before the National Council for the vote, follows four basic principles that are like a red thread through this law: Important are the legal residence, regular own income, sufficient knowledge of the German language as well as law enforcement. In the future, all Neo-Austrians – except for a few legitimate exceptions – will have to meet these clear criteria; according to the principle already mentioned by me: To be an Austrian citizen is something valuable! Immigrants – unfortunately, this is forgotten again and again in this discussion – who meet these criteria are welcome in Austria and will, of course, live here with us as an equal citizens in the future. I personally think absolutely nothing of the fact that in Austria we are, so to speak, introducing a two-class citizenship. Therefore: If someone meets these criteria, there is an Austrian citizen, so we are all the same. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not understand what should be inhumane when a country like Austria develops conditions for full membership – and nothing but citizenship. What I can't understand is what should be so incredible in a state like Austria if we choose our citizens that we don't want any citizens who are illegally resident in Austria. [[Abg. Gaál: Who wants this?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We also do not want new citizens who are severely pre-punished. We do not want new citizens living exclusively on public aid, nor do we want to have citizens who are not powerful in the German language. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[New calls at the SPÖ: Who wants this?]] Unfortunately, Austria has often pursued a false immigration policy in the past. Very many people have come to our country, which unfortunately, from their education in Austria, only auxiliary workers have been able to perform. In addition, people have often come to Austria – and also stayed here – who wanted to come to our country, but which Austria really would not need. In this respect, other countries are pursuing a completely different policy and are successfully showing us how they are specifically recruiting well-trained immigrants and bringing them into their country under good conditions, whereby I do not necessarily understand a well-functioning social system under "good conditions", but rather other criteria. Ladies and gentlemen! We must also be aware that no social assistance is to be received in the last three years before citizenship is granted. Furthermore, we must be aware that all of us who sit here like us have the costs to pay for it. From our taxpayers the social assistance system will be financed, the health and pension system will be financed. For this reason, it is also particularly important to focus on a responsible and forward-looking policy. [[Abg. Krainer: What about the asylum seekers...?]] We believe that Austrian citizenship is not only a title for a temporary legal residence, but also a full access to all political rights. In my view, therefore, it is more than legitimate for the immigrant to make certain efforts to preserve this high and very valuable good citizenship. Therefore, I am convinced that this new citizenship law is in the interests of Austria. In the future, every new citizen will have to show that he wants to respect our country and actively integrate himself. This is also the wish of the vast majority of the Austrian population. In this sense, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to this bill. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9776	The next item is the speech by Mr Gaál. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9797	Madam President. Mrs Bundesministerins! As you repeatedly emphasize by the coalition parties that citizenship should be the conclusion of a successful integration, allow me to point out that this bill – which was also to be read in the statements of the Minister of Justice – does not allow successful integration. I am very sad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a contradiction, because...!]] The opposite is the case. Austria is already one of those countries that have a strict and restrictive regime. This new right of citizenship is also contrary to the situation in the European Union, which demands to facilitate citizenship, ladies and gentlemen. We don't need any further intensifications! What you have said and called for, Minister of Justice, is already contained in the existing provisions, is already in the legislative text. If someone is driving alcoholized cars today and losing the driver's license, there is no naturalization for this person – and much more. This one of your requests for deadlines here in plenary has once again shown that you want to whip through this law with all the hardness and sharpness, without If and But, without regard to losses. But, Mrs. Justice Minister and Mrs. Interior Minister, in Austria we have no state emergency! Nowhere is danger in delay! What, then, is the urgency of whipping through this law now?- Oh, my God! There is no reason for such a course! [[Abg. Scheibner: You always talk differently in favourites!]] Just think of the hearing in committee: Even experts nominated by the government groups expressed some criticism of these provisions in the Committee and said that they were not objectively defined, which, for example, reached the social sphere, but exclusively defined politically. There are substantial intensifications, more obstacles than in the past. Everything was made more difficult and tightened. This citizenship law novelle is not necessary, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties – and it does not agree with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9870	Mrs Hellerer's next speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9892	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Stoisits has raised the cost of a new citizenship, but above all she has not operated with correct figures. Mrs Stoisits claimed that it would cost €4,000 if a family with two children applied for Austrian citizenship. . I mean, especially when it comes to numbers or fees, you should be serious about this. In fact, someone who is a citizen of sustainable integration has to pay €900 in fees. For the spouse, 700 € apply; this makes 1 600 €. Two children – and we are at €2,000, but not at €4,000, ladies and gentlemen Stoisits. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: And what about the land charges and the...?]] – Land fees are national matters; we now have a federal law to discuss here – and what I have just mentioned to you is the fees that apply at the federal level. Furthermore, Mrs Stoisits, you have talked about the victims of National Socialism. I would like to say to you: Until the 1980s there was the possibility for the descendants of the victims of National Socialism to become Austrian citizens. This possibility has actually been taken; that is what you are asking for here, ladies and gentlemen, has already been done. Since you are always talking that the language alone is not the great means of integrating itself: There are a lot of practical examples for showing the opposite! Thus, in my neighborhood, a family with three children lives; their mother has been in our country for 14 years and still does not speak a word German. Therefore, such women cannot participate in public life either, cannot integrate themselves into society. This woman, for example, needs her children to be translated everywhere. This woman's biggest problem was that she was sent to the hospital after a traffic accident and could not understand. The language is the most important – the most important! – criteria for integration. That is why I also welcome the fact that language skills are so much required in this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9937	Next comes Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e9959	Madam President. Women Ministers! High house! We have a law that states very clearly, point one, how this government intends to deal with people in need. I refer to the rules you provide for refugees and to those you yourself have already obtained refugee status – which, thanks to this government, no longer all those who deserve it – in Austria, you make an intensification, even impose fees there, and thus contravene European requirements, according to which it says: All those who have received refugee status on the basis of the Geneva Convention should facilitate citizenship as far as possible. – They do the opposite and thus say people in distress who have been seeking refuge in Austria: Please wait as long as we can for you! It is even worse for people who do not have refugee status, but only revolving protection, who have often fled from torture, have been threatened with death and have fled so that they cannot be moved back to these countries. To them you now say that they have at least fifteen years to wait instead of the six years so far until an award of citizenship by Austria becomes possible. In reality, they say to all people in need: We don't really take you seriously in your distress! Say it anyway. But they said to them: It counts the money! If a person cannot pay the fees, especially traumatisation victims who have refugee status, are often unable to comply with regulated employment, then there is no citizenship. What is it like in a second area, that of the family you write on the flags, but then, in practice, do not really support much? – As First – and I would like to formulate it salopp – this citizenship law is generally based on the backs of women and children in the innovation process. They say if spouses want to acquire citizenship, at least a five-year period of marriage must be observed. What if the woman is married to the man for four years and he beats her, wants to seek an ongoing citizenship procedure and then has the following decision: either protection from violence, refuge in the women's house and divorce – or citizenship. Before this choice, you will put women and force them to make such decisions. This may be little surprising because you do the same in the right to stay. Also in the right of residence, we always see cases – and I can give you concrete examples – that women want to flee from a violent husband to the women's home and thus not only lose social benefits, but also lose the residence permit and have to choose between the opportunities to stay legally in Austria and stay with a violent husband – or to lose residence and support when seeking refuge from violence. That too is the policy you are pursuing! More than once today, it has been pointed out how you impose on children and young people the responsibility for the citizenship of the whole family. [[Abg. Hellerer: That's not true!]] I mean, show me one Eleven, Twelve, Thirteen or a girl who doesn't even have enough knowledge in German, although perhaps the German knowledge wouldn't be so bad at all. How many Austrian children and young people have a “not enough” in German? Do you want all of them citizens? - That's ridiculous what you're doing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You do not even check whether integration has succeeded, whether German skills are available to a sufficient degree for everyday life, but you check school notes with these young people. That's much more absurd! [[Abg. Hellerer: That's not true!]] I am not sure how many of them would not consistently recognize citizenship according to your criteria. They make a two-class society between those who have the money, those who fit you into the stuff, and if someone comes from the wrong country, the criteria will be different. [[Abg. Scheibner: Is that your demand?]] I look at how you treat the football legionary in the future, whose German knowledge is rudimentary, who may not have any commitment at all and has committed a speeding offense, whether he then does not get citizenship, while the Turkish woman may be forced to stay with a suffocating man. [[Abg. Scheibner: That shouldn't be!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You're right! She shouldn't get it either!]] Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, you know exactly how the practice works. You should also focus on this rather than pursue an intensification with the clear objective of keeping people out of Austria and saving money – as your colleague, Partik-Pablé, expressed quite openly – and you should finally take a serious step towards integration policy so that social peace can prevail in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10062	The next item is Mrs Rosenkranz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10084	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The previous speaker has provided a very clear proof of what it is doing in Austrian foreign law. It has linked and mixed asylum law and immigration. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Listen!]] Asylum is a requirement that we, as a humanitarian rule of law, naturally leave ourselves to be concerned. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger:... strengthen citizenship!]] asylum is protection on time; Immigration is exclusively at the discretion of the State it wishes to grant and is geared to the interests of the host country. But let me briefly quote the following: In recent years, Austria has faced an ever-growing influx of people who, on arrival, claimed to have left their homes for reasons of racial, political, and religious persecution and are unable to return there. Training by train with the leaping rise of the asylum seekers has also experienced a change in their quality. The larger part of the asylum seekers are no longer coming to Austria because of political, racial or religious persecution, but because these people in their home country do not find a bearable economic and social situation. This development is detrimental to Austria, and it must be countered. - Quote. This is a quote from the Stenographical Protocol to the first Asylum Act 1991; under a red and black government! Your predecessors – and this must be said quite properly, especially you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Socialist Group; I have also chosen Mr Parnigoni’s speech – were far more realistic than you are now. You have clearly seen at that time that there is the beginning of a migration movement under the title “Asyl”, which is, of course, to end in citizenship. And they were aware - they also said - that this would be a burden for Austria, which is not to be accepted. The Minister for Justice has admitted that there has been a wrong immigration policy in recent years. You can only agree with that. Above all, this has unfortunately been the case in the last five years, and the figures show it. Both the numbers of asylum applications and the migration balance and the naturalisations increased from 2001 onwards and stabilised at a very, very high level. Anyone who wants to know can know how this is done; and a minister must know how this is done. By the way, this is clearly reflected in the visa scandal: With a visa - unfortunately God, as you have now seen - purchased from Austrian authorities one creates entry into the Schengen area. Before this visa expires – and all those who perform their duties and experiences at the Bundesasylamt can confirm that – you apply for asylum. Four years – now six years – are rapidly changing, especially if you acquire asylum status, with Austria having the highest recognition rate in Europe. We recognise so-called refugees from countries that are nowhere else more recognized – Chechnya, for example – so we also come to an asylum-seeking rate of seven times as high per capita as in Germany, which had been ruling red-green until recently. That must have a reason. When these six years are over – and they can also be spent here, with the removal of the procedures this is very often possible; look at how long the asylum procedures take! – the right to citizenship arises, and that has not been changed in this law. That's exactly the point we're saying: There's nothing going to change. The incentive to come here by asylum and then to acquire citizenship is still there, and that is not right, because Austrian citizenship is a high asset, it can only be awarded to the interests of the State. A right of residence, whether four or six years, is not compatible with this. The FPÖ will therefore not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10160	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10181	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ms. Minister of Justice! High house! The current novel to the Citizenship Act brings with it an intensification, which has already been found by all the groups of the House, a aggravation that is unnecessary and counterproductive. It is unnecessary because we have one of the strictest laws on citizenship in Austria, and it is also unnecessary because there are no such many premature citizenships as is claimed. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not yet! But that's coming!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Oh, that's it?]] I mention only briefly the figures for Vienna concerning the year 2004. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You should ask the Austrians!]] 16 826 awards have been made. Of these, only 396, i.e. 2.4%, took place after six years and 347, i.e. 2.2%, after four years; the other 3 920 people had a legal claim, so they were spouses or children. Because the 2003 figures have also been mentioned – over 18,000 – and because they are so high: Of course, these are, relatively, high numbers, but you have to see them in relation to immigration. [[Abg. Hornek: It's all relative!]] I must remind you that at the time of the Bosnia-Herzegovina war, many refugees came to Austria, which were well received here, which has been very important and very correct, and which, by the way, have been very well integrated. They are now here for ten years and have a right to citizenship, and this will not change in accordance with the current law. On the issue of uniformity of practice: The relevant national representatives meet several times a year and discuss the harmonisation. This means that the harmonisation has been very successful throughout the country. It should be noted, therefore, that an unnecessary innovation has been created here, which is still counterproductive, because citizenship is not the end point of integration, but it is a prerequisite for final integration, and that is what is to be sought.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10258	The next speaker was Mr Sieber. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10279	Madam President. Women's Minister! High house! This citizenship law, Novelle, contains three important points which I would like to expressly welcome. This is the first thing to do with naturalization only in the case of appropriate language knowledge. I believe that appropriate language skills for integration, which really should work, are essential. [[Abg. Mandak: Then you have to learn the language...!]] We also have in Vorarlberg, for example, the problem of unemployment – which unfortunately increases God’s; although we are taxing against, but it is rising – a large proportion of migrants who have no corresponding language skills and are therefore not able to continue. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What are you doing? Counter-taxes? That's a joke!]] We probably have a huge increase in jobs, but these are jobs that need properly trained, qualified fellow citizens. It is important that we give our fellow citizens the opportunity to further their language skills accordingly. It should be an incentive, so I expressly welcome this point. Secondly, it concerns basic knowledge of the democratic order and history of Austria and the respective federal state. I think it should be of interest to every incoming citizen and to every emerging citizen to know the history of one's own country in which one wants to integrate. That is why I expressly welcome this point. However, I would like to refer briefly to the comments made by Mrs Weinzinger and also by Mr Stoisits, who have taken the fees so seriously. In reality, Mrs. Weinzinger, especially with those entitled to asylum, had to pay €725; in the future, there will be only €700. In the case of EEA citizens and citizens on the basis of benefits already provided or expected in different areas, it was earlier also €725; in the future it will be €700. spouses of Nazi victims, for example, have paid €545 so far; in the future there will be only €200. The award to children of Austrians also becomes cheaper: 545 € so far; 200 € in the future. Also ex-Austrians who want to accept their former citizenship have paid €545 so far; in the future it will be only €200. So I think you'll be in the future before You say something here should be better researched. I welcome this law and ask the House to agree to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10327	Mrs Prokop spoke next. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10350	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly address the conditions, because it has always been said that this revision is unnecessary, we do not need it. I would like to make it clear that, on the one hand, the government programme has established that there should be a new citizenship law. Secondly, the national conference of the Heads of State or Government has repeatedly called for harmonization. In concrete terms, a decision was taken in November 2004, i.e. more than a year ago, under the chairmanship of the head of state, Häupl, which covered several very specific points. These points, these wishes of the countries that complained that there was no vote here that there was no unity, we have introduced and incorporated into this law. Thirdly, it was, of course, necessary to make some adjustments and to change some of the references to the various materials on the basis of the tourism package. First of all, these were the prerequisites. I would like to stress once again that it is particularly important that those who gain citizenship feel at home, at home and, above all, integrated in Austria. We simply need the acceptance of the population. We have the need that Austrians do not feel overwhelmed. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm telling you, it's getting harder and harder to accommodate strangers somewhere. I would expect much more support from all those who have spoken for it today. [[Abg. Hornek: That would be more honest!]] In the last few days, I've only got my exits everywhere. There were in a community all four political groups, including the Greens who said: No more strangers in our community, we don't stop it! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Another region that says: We have 6.7 percent strangers, we don't hold any extra!, is socialist dominated. Ladies and gentlemen! Here's the statement again and again: We're not gonna put up with this anymore. Therefore, this acceptance must also be given, and acceptance belongs to integration. For me, citizenship law is the endpoint of a successful, wanted integration by the citizens. Many other states are also doing similar things; it was said that we now have the sharpest law. It is currently changing the right of citizenship in England, the Netherlands, Denmark and the French. So this is a movement in Europe because there have been problems with integration. This is absolutely necessary. I would like to address a number of other points. It's called, you can only be integrated after 30 years. That is not true, because after ten years of successful integration, it is possible. The right is given after 30 years. Even the 15 years do not vote; if integration is successful, ten years is the norm. This has also been the unification. It is very important that you do not mix the foreign package and citizenship law over and over again. For example, in the event of violence against women in the foreign package, we have provided the opportunity to disband the residence permit from the aliens. In other words, there is the possibility here of obtaining their own residence status and then independent citizenship. In addition, there is also the possibility of a humanitarian residence permit. It was also very important to define the legal stay. In the discussion, it was repeatedly claimed that if children have a bad note, they will prevent citizenship for the whole family. I've tried to make this clear many times: It should be a simplification for the children that they do not need an examination. We have expanded this now, so that the school visit alone is enough. And all the children who lived here for six or ten years have also attended the school. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The action has also been clearly stated that it was simply not possible to check the German knowledge. Not least because of this, only four were rejected in Vienna in 2003 because of the lack of German knowledge, because there was no directive here and there was a concern that this would be objected to or repealed. Therefore, it was necessary – and the experts in the hearing have also said this – to make clarifications and to adopt an objective examination procedure for the executing authority. This has now been tried, and I am convinced that this is a good way. If we hear today on one side, it's too strict, and on the other hand, it's too liberal, so it's typical again because we tried – and I think that's important – to choose the good middle way. We need a law which – and this is, I believe, the case in this law – corresponds to the needs of the foreigners who want to integrate here, who want to become citizens, and on the other hand also meets the needs of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10396	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10417	Mr President. My women's ministers! Mr Prokop! I believe that this is difficult in practice and that there are problems. I also believe that this can be seen independently from the party – it will already be so. And perhaps the heads of state have also expressed themselves in one way or another that there may be a uniformization of the deadlines. But what expresses the spirit of the law better than these facts is what sometimes comes out unconsciously or perhaps consciously. If, for example, Mrs. Gastinger says "Standard" of 14. September 2005 says: “Larifari doesn’t exist at all in this law,” that’s what it says... – That’s exactly what it expresses. [[Federal Minister Mag. Gastinger: There should be no such thing!]] Larifari doesn't exist in this law anymore. This is your rejection of the whole thing. It's not about integration. The time-limits for citizenship, at all, all the provisions have been tightened, not simply harmonised. This makes a difference: Intensification or harmonisation! I also argue that there has been an immediate need for action because the significant increase in citizenship between 1990 and 2003 is not due to premature citizenship, but above all to regular citizenship plus first-hand restrictions on family members. - That's one. Secondly, You have the previous requirement of a ten-year stay for discretional citizenship according to § 10 para. On the other hand, what is reasonable has facilitated access to the labour market. They have, however, made it difficult for them to obtain citizenship, which for many people is an expression and in fact does not correspond to the spirit of integration you are talking about. Now a fixed income is required: If someone comes into a financial emergency and needs to find out with social assistance, rule out that of citizenship because fixed and regular incomes are provided for over the last three years. Whoever receives social assistance during this period, the law normizes a grounds for exclusion. I do not want to miss out on the proofs of integration in the secondary education sector for students, the German language skills, because they only serve to standardize exclusion grounds instead of promoting integration. The deadlines for naturalization of spouses have already been mentioned. One of the few positive proposals – and I have to oppose Mrs Partik-Pablé – is that you have actually standardized the ius soli with the introduction of a legal claim, and that is to thank your legalist. Instead of the previous decision on discretion, there is now a right to the acquisition of Austrian citizenship for people born domestically, even though you have given up this again by extending the period of four years to six years. That's a limiting point, but your lawyers have still tried to get the best out of it. You can also benefit from the fact that the government template no longer has the strictness of the draft assessment. But one thing remains: Larifari no longer exists with this law, and that is the spirit of the law as Mrs. Gastinger himself defined and pronounced him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10457	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10478	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies on the government bank! Together with the Citizenship Act, they have made a bill to the National Council, in which some reasonable people are inside – I like to admit – but which is a compromise and therefore insufficient for us free. The connection with the asylum law, which you are restoring in this law, we consider to be a deceptive goal because it will increase the pressure on asylum seekers, the pressure of asylum seekers on this law to achieve citizenship. We would have thought it right for us to bring about a paradigm change in the Citizenship Act, which finally makes it clear that it is not only a waste of deadlines, but that the achievement of Austrian citizenship, which is a great asset, is also central to clearer quality rules. We want there to be no development in our country of parallel societies that, in principle, reject our society, parallel societies, which are also willing to use violence against our society. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why, as a FPÖler, this citizenship law is a question of credibility, similar to the question of asylum abuse in our embassies in recent months and years. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, there has been a press conference in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this asylum abuse, in which, according to journalists, nothing new has actually occurred. Ladies and gentlemen, I may be able to share something new with you today: This morning, a lady came to me, who has credible information that there has also been an abuse of Austrian asylum awards in Moscow, which have been made especially in the tourist sector. This informant called me her name, also called me her sources. She could also describe the chronology in which it played out. She also told me that one or two years ago she had approached the highest representatives of the Republic, but had not received an answer to her letters. Maybe you know this lady, I can call you the name afterwards, and my office can also provide you with the information so that you can follow up on this alleged misunderstanding. It is a Russian living in Innsbruck, married to an Austrian woman, who has extensive insight into the course of things in this area and who has also clearly claimed that she has evidence that tour operators and also Austrian tourism organisations are involved in these illegal activities. It is therefore an accusation that is considerable and that has actually shaken me. I would therefore also like to present this here in plenary and ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that you, with the institutional equipment available to you, proceed with these alleged abuses, verify or also fake them, depending on what comes out. I believe that this abuse of asylum, if I may correct the use of visas, is an essential point as regards the credibility of Austrian foreign policy. That is why we must also use all the mechanisms which have the effect of clarifying all these alleged malaises, ladies, and I would urge you here as a Member of this House, as a matter of urgency, to proceed consistently to all these alleged malaises.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10527	The next speaker was Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10548	Mr President. Dear women ministers! High house! Mr Bösch, you can be calm: I am convinced that everything is done that is possible to clarify these accusations! But now to you, Mrs Prokop. I would like to congratulate this draft law. If one is too restrictive and the other too little restrictive, then the truth is probably in the middle, and that is good and right so. I am convinced that today's draft law provides an opportunity not only to make integration more difficult, but also – on the contrary – to accelerate. If someone has to learn German, he will do it rather than remain open. I think that a proper solution has also been reached with regard to school. I am convinced that proof of living is also an important thing because there is no country that people who can't prove that they can fight their livelihood. The most important point, however, is, in my opinion, the fact that in the future there will no longer be so-called registration citizens, because the applicants will have to prove their actual residence, including the guarantee of living – I have already said so. I would also like to welcome the time limits, with the rule of thumb 30/15/16. For the explanation: In the future, a citizen of citizenship can be established at the earliest after six years, and if a person has been legally and continuously resident for at least five years under the provisions of the Constitutional Law, the award is also possible. In the event of sustainable personal and professional integration, the applicant must have stayed in Austria for 15 years without interruption. Ladies and gentlemen! To be a citizen of Austria is certainly a special privilege with which one cannot easily deal with it, and I therefore ask you to give your consent to this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10593	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10615	Mr President. My women Federal ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of BZÖ, it is an extremely successful law, because from our point of view it precisely regulates what is not regulated in the old law. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you correcting bush now?]] Mr Parnigoni noted that everything was so great that the old law had been regulated, and there was no need to do anything. – The figures already mentioned by Mr Lopatka and others speak for something else: from 9 090 to 42 000 the figures have increased. I know you don't want to hear that, but you have to let that happen. This law in the current regulation was defective and has now been excellently repaired. We were penetrationd by the lack of language knowledge from advertisers about Austrian citizenship, but they also received it. We had no secure livelihood, and under these conditions a new regulation was necessary. I would like to point out a very important part to me, which of the reasons why advertising about Austrian citizenship has now been added: We used to have a conviction of more than three months as grounds for exclusion. We now have an immediate exclusion in a judgment by a court. We have an exclusion when there is more than one punishment for a serious administrative violation, such as the Reporting Act, the Ausländerbehördegesetz or the Cross-border Control Act. It is very important to combat prostitution: We have a conviction of a serious violation of the prostitution rules as a cause of exclusion. The reasons for exclusion are also all forms of participation in criminal organizations or terrorist associations and, above all, very important! – hetceric calls against groups of persons. That is, one has thought very, very much, because one must be said here: Austrian citizenship is a great asset, and there is also the need to pay a very high admission price for a high asset.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10651	The next speaker was Mr Dr Liechtenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10673	Mr President. Minister! Once again, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many things have already been said about the Citizenship Act, which is why something is briefly in the international field. Basic knowledge of the democratic order and history of Austria is needed to know it. This is positive. Austria has always been a geographical centre of Europe, Central Europe and the history of a multi-national multi-national state. It is positive that clear arrangements are made to achieve Austrian citizenship and therefore their EU membership is regulated. However, it is also essential for us Austrians to see that hundreds of thousands of Austrians had been exposed to persecution by NSDAP organs in 1938 for political, racial, national and religious reasons. Tens of thousands were murdered, many were able to save God’s praise, put to safety. I am often in the USA and I experience in New York, Washington and other places of old Austrians or Central Europeans from other Central European countries and their descendants in essential positions of the economy, science, research and much more that we have lost through the Nazis from Austria and Europe. Many, including the younger generation, feel as Americans, but in fact as Europeans, Central Europeans and often Austrians. The pride of their family origin is usually very positive. You should not forget the following either. The recognition, which has a very special significance for the victims of the National Socialism, but also for their descendants, is an integral part of the commitment of the Austrian government and the general public to Austrian history. For example, double citizenship for people persecuted by the Nazi regime and their spouses will not be an obstacle. This awareness is present, recognizable and positive in our citizenship law novelle to be decided today. The European idea arose shortly after the First World War thanks to Richard Coudenhove-Kalergi from Austria. Godlob is now growing together faster and faster, so that the issue of citizenship needs to be clarified clearly and in the interests of Austria and Europe, because today there are not only the euro but already largely uniform EU-European passports. The future for us means thank God – and I am convinced of it – Europe. And I can clearly say: I am happy to be Steirer, Austrian and European – and their citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10713	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore vote on the draft law in 1254 d.a. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stoisits, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary request and finally on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Committee's report. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and others have an additional request concerning Article 1(10) para. 4 Z 2a and § 58c para. 1a. Whoever is for this purpose, I ask him for a sign in this regard. – It is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This was also adopted by a majority in the third reading. [[14:20:00]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1116, e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the prevention and fight against cross-border crime (1227 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10783	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10811	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to explain briefly why the Greens of this government template refuse their approval, namely the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the prevention and fight against cross-border crime. That has a very simple reason, ladies and gentlemen. Such state agreements often hide things that you don't see at all in the first moment. Cooperation in the prevention and fight against cross-border crime, which sounds good, only has this cooperation and the legal conditions attached to it a certain rupture. The situation is that police powers and the possibilities of security police cooperation at European level are constantly being expanded, with the risk that measures such as hidden identification will now be possible cross-border, measures that we reject in the first place, measures such as the purchase of drugs in the context of hidden drugs. Exploration. That is, the state makes itself a criminal by respectfully buying drugs from its organs. This is a more than dubious method of hiding such possibilities behind these state agreements. That is why I reject this agreement between Austria and Hungary, because, ladies and gentlemen, at the European level it is so that, although I said at the outset, police powers are extended, when it comes to the issue of legal protection in criminal proceedings, when it comes to the issue of the protection of the rights of accused persons or the question of accused rights, it is a snail's pace in which cooperation, if you want to, works. This wrong situation, Mrs Federal Minister, makes me – I just mention the EU Green Paper on Accusing Rights – recommending my group to refuse to accept this State Treaty, as we have already done in the Committee. That is not to say, Mrs Federal Minister, that we do not support European cooperation in principle, but if cooperation in one area is so overweight, then when it comes to the issue of legal protection and the rights of those involved in the proceedings, the weight has been shifted to their disfavors, then you, Mrs Minister of Justice, and also Mrs Federal Minister for Justice – especially now with regard to the Austrian Presidency – are asking for initiatives to be taken in the other direction, at least in order to mitigate this wrong situation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10856	Mr Schöls has been mentioned as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10877	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The present Treaty on cooperation with the Republic of Hungary is first of all a formal act, which, with the exception of the Green Group, is adopted by the political groups of the House, but which is an essential contribution to cooperation in Europe. We have these bilateral agreements with all States in which security policy is relevant, and we are therefore also in line with our high responsibility. I would like to thank the officials who are working here, because those who work as liaison officers abroad are very often working under the most difficult conditions to work in the interests of a united Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we look at our European political responsibility and see the daily newspapers, it is interesting to note with what expectation not only Europe but also the other continents already face the Austrian Presidency, because they know that we Austrians have always been responsible Europeans and are also. That is why this Treaty is also an important treaty, which, on the other hand, also shows with what popularity is operated by the opposition fractions of security policy. Mr Brosz complained here a few minutes ago about the police looking away when it came to aggressive groups on football courts, and Mr Stoisits said before me that the state is making itself a criminal because we have the hidden investigation here. So how would you like it? Tell us so we can know! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: We are also concerned with the legal protection of the accused!]] We are concerned with security, and it is indivisible in some questions. Mr Parnigoni and the Socialist Group must also be involved in this, because we are confessing ourselves today in this Treaty and in all other cooperation agreements on cross-border cooperation, for the use of officials also across the border. If Mr Parnigoni has complained today during the current hour about the fact that foreign officials should also be employed in a football match in the future, this is an old contract, which was concluded a long time ago, in which it was agreed between Germany, Switzerland and Austria. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But this is not the case!]] This is the case in the context of the security debate on uncertainty policy. We are not available for this, but we are in favour of a responsible security policy – also in cooperation with our neighbours.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10933	As the next speaker, Mrs Pepper is speaking. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10955	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This government template regulates cooperation between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary in the prevention and fight against cross-border crime. Unfortunately, however, it must also be noted that this international cooperation is more necessary than ever. This has also recently intensified significantly with the growth of the requirement. This cross-state police cooperation with the neighbouring states, as here with the Republic of Hungary, is of particular importance. Especially for our people in the border area and for me as a Burgenlander, this is of great importance. This Treaty allows for increased regional cooperation between the authorities and the incident of 4th anniversary. December 2005 shows that this cross-border cooperation is already working. What happened? Ladies and gentlemen? – Officials of the Landeskriminalamt Burgenland, together with their colleagues from the Federal Criminal Office, have had a towing band in the visor since December of last year, which has illegally brought numerous Moldovan and Ukrainian nationals to Austria and subsequently to the EU area. This is where the Hungarian authorities have already helped to take up these towing tires. And now, ladies and gentlemen, this cooperation will work even better with the help of this legal basis – to protect our people. But not only in tow crime, but also in drug crime, this law will help to move on. Also, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank all the police staff for their work in the service of the population. This work is not always easy. Thanks a lot!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e10985	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11008	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot, and I must say that it is rather confusing for me that the Green Group does not realize that crime has no limits. When you listen to her, you get the impression that all this stops at the border, you don't need international cooperation. It is about, please, the security of Austrian citizens. If there are measures such as an improvement in cooperation in the field of education, if there are measures to agree a follow-up to criminal acts with a state, then that is something we have more security in Austria, then that is something you should actually support in consensus. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we are willing to support this, of course, because we expect this Treaty, like several Treaties of this kind, which have already been concluded with other countries – and I would like to say that I am not sure how the voting conditions were, whether we even had a unanimous treaty – to serve the security of Austrian citizens. That's why I think: Continue with such contracts, because cooperation is extremely important in this area!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11042	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11063	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Stoisits has made me think about it, because I do not really understand the Green Security Policy anymore. This state agreement with Hungary is basically the same, which has been tested with Germany for years. Here I would like to speak out of practice as the border officer of the Security Directorate for Upper Austria. For many years, this has been lived by officials from Lower Bavaria and by services at the Innviertler border, which will now be done by the Burgenish colleagues with the Hungarians. It's all about banal things like aftertaste, so that national borders, which no longer exist for perpetrators, are not limits to the executives, so that persecutions across the border with military vehicles, with military force, can be fully adjusted. It is a matter of getting to know each other and getting to know each other – we call it technically “hospitation” – about the exchange of officials, about getting to know the services, about getting to know the service system, about making contacts. This also means that criminals can be better caught, crime can be solved better, and it also means a common strip service. With us in Braunau and Simbach, it works so that in Braunau or Simbach, in an Austrian police car, a passport police officer with German uniforms and an Austrian police officer ride with Austrian uniforms. This should now also take place on the border with Hungary. It is not about acquisitions, it is not about dubiosities, but about fair state-law-covered measures, because a non-border Europe, a free Europe, necessarily also needs to act without frontiers. Police. This is again a real and important step towards making the common Europe safer for people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11102	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11124	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we have had a few hours of security debate here in the House behind us, and I think that is a very important debate, because it has been shown that one of the most important basic needs for the population is a secure Austria. I believe that we politicians have the task of meeting this need, so I think this discussion is very important. However, I would also like to point out that I am very sorry that whenever security is discussed in this House, the problems of foreigners are always at the centre of the discussion, and so this security issue and the foreign subject matter – I feel it this way – is being illuminated together in a very ungood light and, in my opinion, it is an incitement to resentments which are very dangerous, Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Scheibner: With scams, resentments are shaken!]] I would really like these debates to be held differently here in this House. It is also always the case that integration is spoken of and how important integration is. However, it is already very strange when, on the one hand, successful integration is spoken and on the other hand, the means and possibilities for successful integration are withdrawn. I only remember the field of education in which more and more integration teachers are saved. You may be able, Mrs Minister, to interact with your colleague, namely to provide the necessary integration teachers. Then it might be easier to actually integrate people in Austria. - So much to this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we welcome the agreement that we are adopting today, just as the EIA, the liberals and the BZÖ do, because we also believe that crime can be prevented and preventative across borders. Mrs Prokop, I would like to use my speaking time very briefly to express my dismay at the fact that we have recently received an APA notification, in which Mrs Führer Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Ferrero-Waldner, in fact, places the blame for the visa affair or for the non-discovery of this visa affair entirely in the Ministry of the Interior and ascribes the overall responsibility to your ministry. Ferrero-Waldner says that the Ministry of the Interior would have had more opportunities to become a criminalist, and she goes on to say that your ministry has also been examined and that your ministry has made the statement that there has been nothing suspicious. Perhaps you could give us a few answers in this debate, Mrs Federal Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11176	The next speaker was Mr Hornek.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11208	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Never before have there been so many economic opportunities for such a large number of people. Unfortunately, there are also many opportunities for criminal organizations to exploit this system. Ladies and gentlemen, crime does not stop at the borders. The challenges we face today are largely international dangers, dangers which we can only answer and fight together. This applies to organised crime as well as to international terrorism, but cooperation often has legal, cultural, linguistic and administrative obstacles – including in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. The authorities may take action against offenders in their respective state areas, but may only act in a limited manner abroad. Cooperation with European neighbours is dependent on the pursuit of criminal offences of a cross-border nature. Cooperation across borders is sometimes difficult. Especially with regard to the management of major operations such as during the EU Presidency in 2006 or the challenges of international terrorism, this instrument of cooperation is of particular importance. From an Austrian point of view, the essential legal basis for police cooperation with the Republic of Hungary is the handling of the Austrian Police Cooperation Act and the corresponding State Treaty. This Treaty significantly increases and deepens cross-border police cooperation between the two neighbouring countries. The first priority of this Treaty is the joint analysis of the security and situation of crime, second cooperation on demand, in particular exchange of information, cross-border observation, use of hidden investigators, witness protection, formation of joint investigation groups and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is the ideal basis for a comprehensive and effective security partnership between Hungary and Austria. But allow me also to thank our well-trained and motivated police officers in this way for their work done, which is reflected in a positive result in the course of police and criminal statistics!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11245	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1116 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. [[14:39:04]] 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1158, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the arbitration procedure is re-regulated in the Civil Procedure Order as well as the rule of law, the Introductory Act on Civil Procedures, the Labour and Social Courts Act, the Court Organisation Act and the Richter Service Act (Schedungsgesetz 2006 – Arbitration Act 2006) (1236 d.B.) 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1169, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Notarial Code, the Law on Civil Procedure, the Law on Civil Procedure, the Law on Civil Engineering, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the European Union (Law Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Officials, of the Law of the European Union, 2006 – BRÄG 2006) (1237 d.B.) 7. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1168, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Law on Court Fees, the Law on Jurisdiction 1962, the Extraordinary Law, the Law on Laws of Laws, the Notarial Tariffs, the Concurrency Order, the Arbitration Order and the Federal Law on the Recovery of Jurisdictions (Novelle 2006 – GIN 2006) (1238 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11309	We come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11336	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! One of the legislative projects summarised in this agenda item deals with the complete re-design of the arbitration procedure in Austria, which has already been in force since 1895 and has not been substantially altered since then. In recent years, even decades, arbitration has become increasingly important and is, contrary to popular opinion, a state-regulated but not state-organized instrument for resolving disputes. The importance of the arbitration procedure and the State care, so to speak, for this procedure are also reflected in the fact that these rules are contained in the Civil Procedure Code, where the civil law procedure is also regulated. Therefore, the provisions to be adopted today therefore lay down in law the partially mandatory, partially subsidiary general rules for the disputed decision by private arbitration courts. This will be the case, for example. Questions of arbitration, the composition of arbitration courts. It also sets out how and in what form and for which jurisdictions are responsible and may decide. Finally, important general rules of procedure are also laid down, so to speak, minimum standards to be applied to each arbitration procedure. Certain jurisdictions, such as family law or rental law, are expressly excluded from the decision by arbitration courts. In the case of disputes between entrepreneurs and consumers, arbitration agreements can only be concluded if disputes have already occurred and not in the past. And, just as in the case of labour disputes, certain mandatory special rules for the protection of the parties apply here. In conclusion: I believe that arbitration is a very important instrument, as has been said, of increasing importance in international law. It undoubtedly has some important advantages: that more private autonomy is possible in the regulation of this procedure, that the parties can agree on well-known judges in specific jurisdictions, particularly specialised in certain jurisdictions, that a procedure is usually carried out very quickly, that the conclusion, the arbitration of this procedure, then is finally accepted by all parties, and therefore, in most cases, a more rapid decision is taken than in the appeal of public courts. I therefore believe that it is a very important legislative innovation, which is in place today for decision-making, which needs a very long preparation period, but the result is a very, very positive one. I should therefore like to conclude by thanking, on the one hand, the officials involved in the Ministry of Justice, but also the working group of the Ludwig-Boltzmann-Institute for the very intensive and very well-founded preparation of this important novel. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11381	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11403	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Under this point, three areas of legislation will be summarized, all of which will receive the approval of our group. It is necessary to re-examine the arbitration procedure; my colleague has already mentioned it. This is a necessary step in establishing a modern arbitration procedure in Austria. It is also apparent that it is necessary to regulate this matter more and more, because arbitration procedures are becoming increasingly common, not only in international but also in national areas. Therefore, the adequate legal regime certainly represents an improvement of the legal system and a strengthening of this possibility. I think it will be used in principle by those concerned. It is also right and necessary that this be somewhat restricted in the relationship between suppliers and consumers. It is also necessary to exclude certain areas of arbitration proceedings in order not to leave everything, so to speak, to the party's disposition, especially if the party's disposition brings uneven parties together. In these cases, of course, it is necessary to continue to have the normal ordinary legal course. This law also amends the possibility of signature for notaries and civil engineers. There should be some kind of electronic certification signature. This is also necessary in the field of technical law. There is nothing against the fact that notaries and civil engineers will be able to have this electronic certification signature in the future. It is a pity that, in re-regulation of this matter, lawyers have not succeeded in enabling them to be certified. It would have been a relief for the legal system, and I believe that the reliability there would have been just as guaranteed. This is already an old concern of lawyers, and it would have been the possibility here to regulate it. But, in principle, this law is only a positive one, since the electronic signature is also necessary and useful in this area. On the third legal matter, it should be said that it includes an acceleration of insolvency proceedings. There, too, one can only say positive things, because it is necessary for one to achieve an acceleration of the procedures.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11442	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11463	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as I am concerned, all these three projects, which we are now discussing, have found unanimity in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which is very beautiful, but also very rare. In any case, our side will also agree to this. First of all, to the arbitration procedure, to which a lot has already been said. The arbitration law, which is already very old, already has a revision, but is now being put on a new basis, is being made more attractive, and there have been only positive opinions in the review, which means something, because normally always divergent views are expressed in the review. And fortunately – we have also been certified in the review procedure – this arbitration procedure is very user-friendly and a good solution for consumers. It would lead too far to a closer look at the individual provisions, but it is quite certain that the law meets modern requirements and was urgently necessary. Another government template on which we are today concerns the amendment of the Law on Court Fees, the Notarial Tariffs Act and the Law Law on Lawyers. Here too, I think, there is unanimity. Above all, it should be noted that it is positive that politics has not interfered with the law of the state, but that we have left it more or less to these professions to regulate their professional right itself. If Mr Wittmann regrets that the lawyers will not be granted the certification, I would like to say that I have always opposed that this right of public certification is extended, because the notaries are now a public original person with a special credibility, and I think that should not be watered down. If it happened to me, the lawyers would never get this right to be certified at all, but now they want to agree on anything to this profession. On the third point, I would like to say that there is this positive change in court fees, that there are now different amounts in the divorce procedure in the common divorce – depending on whether properties are present or not. The Committee called on lawyers to talk about the fees of lawyers, because they wanted to adapt the tariffs. At present, nothing is foreseen in this respect, but should not prevent us from talking about it. To accelerate the procedures: I believe that it is really urgent to speed up procedures, in particular civil proceedings. I have also said in the Committee that it is simply not that there are procedures that go on for years, not only because expert opinions are necessary, but also because things remain simple, because there is only one day's statute once a year. I mean, that's really not going to happen, you have to do something urgently. Mrs. Minister! I therefore repeat my appeal from the Committee: Do something to speed up the procedures!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11518	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11539	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! All three laws will be approved by the Greens. The motive is quite different. The opinion that Dr. Partik-Pablé has here expressed, that politics should not interfere in the interests of stand-aloneness and thus in the division of the cake – for it is not just about disciplinary or similar issues, but above all about money – I share this view in principle, but only on condition. Politics has the task of interfering here, because it is not just the question of the economic basis for these professions and professional groups, but they get their money from their customers, clients and clients, and these are right-seekers. And there is very much the obligation of policy to have an eye on the fact that there are solutions in the sense of the right-seeing population. I am sometimes surprised, I confess – I am not a lobbyist: neither for the notaries nor for lawyers, but as a member of the High House as a lobbyist of the Austrian right-looking population – with which Vehemenz is persecuted professional interests of individual professional groups. Everything gets more expensive, and everyone gets more money on the one hand, and on the other hand, Mr. Pouswald, colleague, electronic procedural facilitation, electronics as a whole are used in legal traffic. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's not true!]] My knowledge is – I say it under quotations – “power”, namely data transmission, definitely cheaper than human service, and nevertheless the fees are getting higher and higher. Nevertheless, there is no upheaval or sufficient revolution in the sense of the people seeking asylum, so to speak, that acceleration costs less for the people seeking asylum. This is something I would like to know here when it comes to a novelle of court fees and insolvency law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, I am concerned, Mrs Minister, that is what we discussed in the preliminary discussions and in the Committee, in connection with the assistance of minors. We have discussed this once, and this suggestion has been well received, namely the requirement that minors should not be taken into account in all disputed and out-of-court procedures they conduct. This is certainly a consideration for the welfare and protection of minors, which I ask you to continue to follow, Mrs Federal Minister, and perhaps you could already propose appropriate steps here in Bälden regarding legal changes in this area. Final remark on the Arbitration Act: The Green Group's attention in the preliminary discussions, especially the attention of our staff, who has been particularly concerned with it – I do not want to claim something for myself here, which is not the case – is due to the fact that we have yet another joint resolution that serves to clarify and answers the question of what the legislator's will is in the Arbitration Act. And I would like to thank all the political groups for putting in place this suggestion so that three laws can now be passed together. If one has common interests, however, if the interests are diametrically opposed as in the agenda items before, then we truly do not come to a green branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11585	Mr Doppler has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11606	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! My contribution to the debate is essentially also related to the Arbitration Act. This complete new regulation is largely based on the model law adopted by the United Nations Commission in 1985. Although this Model Act only has the character of a non-binding recommendation to the national legislators, it is intended to serve the harmonisation and harmonisation of international commercial jurisdiction. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A working group of lawyers, practitioners, officials and officials has worked closely on this matter and prepared it intensively. This law makes the position of Austria even more attractive as a place of arbitration and thus as an economic location. The new legislation should now also make it possible to regulate national or international arbitration procedures beyond the international trade arbitration procedure. The Redesigned Arbitration Law enters into force by 1. January 2006 in force. The aim of aligning the regime from 1895 and the 1983 amendment to a timely and modern arbitration law is to be welcomed. By adapting to the model law, which has already been conceived by many countries and has developed into an international standard, Austria is given a good position in the international comparison. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that all the parties have joined this legal amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11639	The next speaker was Mrs Stadlbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11663	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I will refer to the Novelle Court of Justice and Insolvency, a novel that is adopted in the House today, and that is a good thing. Some changes are hidden behind this term, including a change in the Extraordinary Act. Here a sub-area is re-regulated during maintenance. It is re-regulated that the maintenance rights of the minor child are not taken into account in procedures relating to the origin of minor children and in procedures for the assessment, enforcement and introduction of the statutory maintenance of minors in the case of procedural assistance decisions. This is very positive, but the maintenance does not represent income or wealth in the conventional sense, but it serves to maintain the livelihood, and that is something quite different. This change of law will allow unemployed minors to have rapid access to judicial enforcement of their rights. Rapid access and rapid decisions are often necessary in maintenance procedures. However, I do not want to mention that there are still further suggestions for improvement. Colleague Stoisits has also pointed out, as has the association of Austrian officials, i.e. experts who work in this field every day. In their opinion, they said, inter alia, that it should be clarified that in all procedures concerning minors, only their income, wealth and family relationships should be examined and their maintenance rights should be reviewed. The Extraordinary Act and the Civil Procedure Code should be amended accordingly. I hope that we will soon be able to implement the proposal of the Association of Principality in a further step: in the sense of those concerned, in the sense of the children. As it's just right for the theme: For several months now, a request has been made by the SPÖ Group on Maintenance Security in Parliament to deal with the Justice Committee. We call for the acceleration of procedures. This request concerns the fixing of the amount of the maintenance and, in addition, the maintenance advance, the payment of the maintenance order by standing order, so as not to lead to any delays. And it is about converting à la longue's maintenance advance into a maintenance security that benefits the children. 17 percent of all children whose parents do not live together receive no maintenance or maintenance advance. 14.6 percent of all alone Educationals live in acute poverty, and 16.8 percent are vulnerable to poverty. This is scandalous, we must change that – our request is a first step in this direction. Mrs. Minister, I'm appealing to you: Let's do it together! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11712	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 5 to 7 of the agenda, so that the required procedure for the urgent request can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:13]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on 2005 – the worst year for women on the labour market (742/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11744	We arrive at urgent treatment of the self-employed application 742/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11852	I give the floor to Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure must not exceed 20 minutes' speaking time, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e11873	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What is more urgent and important than the systematic and comprehensive discrimination of an entire population, namely the majority of the Austrian population? There is obviously much more important and urgent need for the Federal Chancellor, who has not found it worth the effort to get into the house for this discussion, who consistently ignores the alert level red on the labour market for women. Apparently, he has already flown to America – he seems to need two days to Washington. As far as I know, the appointment with Georg Bush is only on Thursday morning. [[Abg. Großruck: This is the German Chancellor's problem!]] There is therefore no reason at all to consistently ignore such an important area as the situation of women in the labour market. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gahr: This is last-class!]] You don't need to get upset now. [[Abg. Gahr: Are you his secretary?]] That's nothing new from your Federal Chancellor either. He has basically not said anything about women's policy for the last five years. And the policy of the last five years, which can be proved, was exclusively determined to put huge rocks on the path of life for women in Austria and not to clear away any of them. [[Abg. Reheis: This is the social cold of this federal government!]] The Chancellor may be famous for the fact that he is very important to him in politics, but is certainly not famous for the fact that groups of people, very large groups of people, as women are, are their living conditions, their free development possibilities are a concern that he wants to facilitate and improve their living conditions. [[Abg. Großruck: The Federal Chancellor will direct his calendar to you!]] It has not found any evidence of this in the policy of this federal government in the last five years. I don't think it would be possible otherwise to ignore one of the big gaps of justice that still exist in Austria and which over the past five years has dramatically increased, so consistently and even further increase them. Since this government has been making women's policy – if one wants to call it women's policy at all – the situation of women has deteriorated dramatically, no matter what the area of life one looks at. I would like to invite you briefly to introduce yourself to the following – I do not know if you can, but perhaps –: They belong to that group of the Austrian population, to that of a million people – now it is more – who live on or below the poverty line. You have to get 800 € per month, and 300 € of it goes for rent, for the apartment. You will then have to imagine fighting with 16 € a day your livelihood. This means you have to pay for the heating, the electricity, the laundry, the clothes, but also, for example, do such things once the washing machine is broken, and perhaps you also need to have a child. I do not think you can imagine that because if you could imagine that, you would have made a completely different policy over the past five years. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You can do that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Caritas reports today quite up-to-date: The face of poverty is mostly female. And she reports on cases where women with 2 € per day have to come out. – Now imagine that this risk of poverty is different for different groups of people by something biological, that is, it depends only on the fact that you have XX chromosomes or XY chromosomes, so whether you are a man or a woman. If you are a man, you are much more rarely affected, namely, only 7 percent, if you have an income, to 11 percent you are affected if you are a woman. 41 per cent of men benefit from social benefits, and 56 per cent of women. And with pensioners and pensioners, it's much worse. In this area, women's poverty risk is twice as high as men's, which is 22 percent for women and 13% for men. How do you explain that? What kind of discrimination is that? Only the difference whether you are a man or a woman in Austria, determined by significant risks, about significant chances of life. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, whether you live in Vienna or not!]] For the last five years, they have done absolutely nothing to address this great gap of justice, no matter what area one takes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This was an example of poverty discussion now, but it doesn't matter which area you address: The risk of poverty has increased for women. Internationally, we have last-class increases in the female employment rate. Women in top positions are scarcely represented; the number you can count on a few hands. We also have a discrepancy of income and an increasing female unemployment. And that's what we're at the most burning point. The overall situation is dramatic. I do not think I am telling you anything new despite all your beauty, despite the job packages, one by one, despite the last summit and so on, all of this is essentially beautiful coloring. The number of unemployed has now exceeded 300 000, a record limit. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Do you also calculate how many new jobs have been added?]] For women – this can already be said – 2005 has been the worst year in the labour market for decades, the worst year literally thanks to the ÖVP policy in the first place. The November data has been available since Friday. That would actually have been the time when not only the Minister of Women or the Minister of Labour, but perhaps also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany should have cried out. Other thousands of people have lost jobs, have fewer jobs, in women it is 5% more than last month, in men only by 3 percent. That's sad enough, but it's much worse for women. This trend in male and female unemployment apartheid has existed since May last year, and you refuse any serious discussion, not only the Federal Chancellor through his present absence, but also about mandates in your ranks. First of all, I would like to call colleagues stupid, who already said in summer: Proposals of the opposition to unemployment can save you, they are indispensable, we have done everything. – By the way: Your sexist and tasteless press releases can also save you yourself, Mr. Colleague stupid! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Last-class!]] The proposals of the opposition to unemployment are essential, I heard in summer. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: This is simple and simply wrong, Mrs. Colleague!]] Their failure, the numbers that come to them every day, I believe, punish these statements as what they are, namely, pure dyeing and no serious discussion of the situation. I think you need to hear the numbers once again in order to keep in mind this whole disaster, since you've been in office, since Black and Blue orange, that is, since 2000. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's all wrong!]] In 2000, there were 86,804 unemployed women in Austria. Today it is 120 308. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 26 000 women more busy!]] 120 308! That's about 33,504 more unemployed women. If you're having a little trouble with this number, I can make it easier for you: This means more than 18 unemployed women every single day in the last five years. If all these women come to the Ballhausplatz and take the responsibility of the Chancellor personally, then the Ballhausplatz is filled with people and their fates that you have to answer. It is particularly bad that women between the ages of 25 and 45, i.e. in the main working life, are mainly women. However, these actual official unemployment figures are only half the disaster. We still have thousands of people in AMS schools who get children's money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] You know exactly, six out of ten are no longer returning to the labour market. And you also know that there are more than 70 000 women who are now at home, who call themselves leaders but would very much like to work. So it's a huge group of people who consistently ignore you. You will now say that you have done everything, you have tied dozens of job packages and just pushed the millions back and forth. You can save yourself all this today, we don't want to hear it anymore. The failure of the last days and the numbers say something else. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You just want to suddle!]] We only had 2 days to think. The numbers, I think, are clear enough. [[Abg. Steibl: Smell World!]] With the smear: We've done everything!, I don't think you'll get through anymore. You can try to explain this to each one of these more than 33,000 women, but we do not want to hear it today. We would like to hear something new! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to invite you to a little fairness. React You don't use the usual automation: We have done everything, and everything the opposition proposes is bad and unnecessary, but please take a serious look at our proposals in the light of such a situation. Such sentences as that of my colleague, stupid, all of this is unnecessary, have nothing to do with a genuine parliamentary debate at all. I do not think you can remember the press release anymore, but it was rarely tasteless, Mr President. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What did he say? Please tell me!]] I would like to ask for such sentences as: We do not need all of this!, let go of it today and discuss our proposal seriously. [[Abg. Steibl: What do the Greens do with the T-shirts against Federal Minister Gehrer? That's not tasteless?]] – Read his broadcast! We can then still discuss it. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I don't know if you're dealing with where the women currently in work are working. These are mainly the low-qualified levels, the sectors with difficult, poor working conditions, burdening working hours, poorer salaries and poorer opportunities such as trade, tourism, care professions and social professions. This has, I believe, not been so close to your heart in the last five years. They have worsened working conditions in precisely these sectors. If you look at the active labour market policy of the AMS, you will be able to see differences. The money spent on women has effects other than those that are spent on men. The money for men is very often described as occupational reintegration aid, i.e. concrete training certificates, i.e. as something solid. The majority of women go to the so-called "children's allowance". And I think you have to admit now and see what impact child benefit has had, above all, on working women in recent years: It's a classic job trap, and it's a classical poverty trap. Their campaigns also speak a very clear language. I've been looking at this again: The clichés you represent here belong to the last century. I would be interested to see how much the new campaign of the Federal Government costs. She's very classic: Enterprise job. You see, for example, on this listing – it's unfortunately badly copied – a young woman – it's a woman, of course, because it's about training to be a hairdresser – between these gentlemen. [[the speaker holds a copied note to the height]] Of course, when it comes to technical professions, you have a young man. But in total – you can look at all the ads on which young women can be seen – men always explain the world to women. This is obviously the world of the ÖVP and not mine. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But this shows a little of the mental attitude and thoughtlessness behind it and is also behind such campaigns, namely that unemployed women are second-class people for you. And that can actually be proved. [[Abg. Ellmauer: This is a stupid understatement!]] Life assurance, career and so on – all these are not topics that you have accepted over the past five years. You may like to list a few measures where you have made classic women's promotion in the real, real sense. [[Abg. We're going to do that!]] However, there is an area where Austria is at the forefront, and that is – it is not necessarily gratifying – the area of minor employment, i.e. part-time for women. This is the only area that actually grows. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: They do this voluntarily, don't they?]] But you know very well, Mrs Fekter, that with such minor jobs, part-time jobs, there is no guarantee of existence. [[Abg. Steibl: But they choose this form! - Abg. Dr. Fekter. First, demand freedom of choice, and now everything is bad!]] Women's employment – adjusted by part-time – is rising in almost all EU countries, from Spain to Finland, only in Austria. And part-time is also a key to the big income difference that remains. But it is not only about part-time, but also about the fact that there is real, actual discrimination in wages, in salaries solely on the basis of gender – exclusively on the basis of gender! - there. You can look at all the incomes. You can look at the payment of female apprentices and male apprentices. You can look at the salary of the male Director-General at the Art History Museum, and you can look at that of female Director-General. This difference, due to a lack of chromosome to earn less, passes through the entire areas of life of Austria. This is classical discrimination on the grounds of sex! Imagine that people who have a different skin color would be the result of a huge uproar across Europe. I have the suspicion that you not only accept that it is the case that the income shears have gone even further apart, but I have the suspicion – and this can also be proved – that you feel that this is also the case. I would now like to give you an example of how the EIA has responded to the Green proposals on income-related pension funds. I don't think it's a question, and among us it's discussed that it's often a purely economic decision for families with children between men and women who stay at home and who continues to work. [[Abg. Steibl: You have been interested in this for some time now!]] Mrs Steibl, what are you saying? – You can also justify this. If you're playing on my personal life situation, you'll say this openly. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's a joke! Do you want to say that if a politician is pregnant, she can't make any more women's policy, or can't comment on it any more? Do you want a professional ban on pregnant women – or what do you want? [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Do you also ask colleagues Bartenstein with his five children or colleagues Khol? What do you really want to do?- Oh, my God! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Read “NEWS” once!]] But Mr Steibl's statement is a good starting point. Her reaction to the income-dependent care allowance was significant. The income-dependent pension of the Greens does not distinguish between men and women, it treats men and women exactly the same. One gets a certain amount of money, men and women completely equal for a certain period of time that one takes care of at home. Mr Steibl referred to this as a compulsory obligation for men, and the freedom of choice for women. This shows a lot about your world view. What do you mean? – Do you mean that it is simply such that women are responsible for childcare? – Obviously it is! Now I'm reading something from the men's adviser of the Social Ministry of your Federal Government, which is unfortunately very bad, but you have to read it out: By nature, the woman is emotionally and physically prepared to care for children months before birth and years afterwards as a primary and dominant relationship. [[Abg. Steibl: This is an old hat!]] This innate impulse can also be transferred to extended care and assistance beyond the childhood and its own children, which is used by all societies. But that's no longer geneticly compelling. The universal spread of warring and cooperative men's communities in all cultures also speaks of the fact that the genetic hormonal drive to domination and order, to leadership and to kumpanei men is more own than women. I'm telling you honestly: I haven't read such a nonsense all my life! And this is in the official counsellor of this federal government. You say that genetics are better suited for women to bring children into the world – I can still lose your weight – but that this is also inconceivable for the care and, subsequently, not only for child care, but also for the care as a whole, so to speak, for everything. The men are warriors, the men go out and lay down the mammoths with the dome. That's your world view – that's really inconceivable! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It may seem funny now, but it's very painful, because it's mostly the reality of life and the desires of young families, i.e. of women and men completely ignored and there is no way at all to develop and live modern life designs. I would like to ask you, first of all, to deal with our proposals on the pension fund. It is a measure that helps women, in particular, in the labour market. Secondly, I would like to ask you to take our requests seriously: Alarm level red – women on the labour market. What is against taking up a job initiative: 10,000 jobs, two thirds of the wage costs will be financed by the public authorities for the next year? Finally, there are almost 40 000 additional unemployed women. What is against the view of AMS measures in relation to actual equivalent qualification measures for men and women? And what does it say about helping a little bit in the field of economics and ending the myth that is still very strong there, namely that women are a certain risk of failure due to the baby break, which is a real myth? The average length of stay of employees in businesses, no matter which sex, is now two years. I think there are such arguments: I don't set it up now, I don't support it, or I don't offer her a career opportunity through an additional training, because it could be a failure!, the figures of reality are destroyed. It is possible to link economic promotion with the women's promotion plans in the establishments. This also works well in other countries and has only brought positive effects. [[Abg. Steibl: That's already about business agreements, if you don't know!]] Mrs Steibl, if you have anything else to say about income-related pension funds, then I invite you to do this here, but I would ask you to do it in a somewhat more qualified form than just divide people by sex: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't be so sensitive!]] The women are supposed to stay at home, that's great, that's freedom of choice, and with the men it's a forced obligation. I've never heard anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12322	Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12347	Mr President. It is nice that the Secretary of State for Art attends this debate. I think he will follow this debate for cultural reasons. Of course, we are also pleased about the presence of Mrs. B. Rauch-Kallat, but had to find out for the last time that she unfortunately has no competence in this matter. That is why we would have liked the presence of the Federal Chancellor, just as this would have been expected. Therefore, according to § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the request that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany should follow this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12374	Are there any further statements on business treatment? Please, Mr Klubobmann Molterer.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12398	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Rules of Procedure provide that the Federal Chancellor may be represented by the State Secretary. Assuming that Mr Secretary of State Morak will, of course, be competent in answering all your questions and of course lead to political discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12439	There are no further words available. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the request. If you join this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This request is rejected. We therefore come to the submission of an opinion by Mr Morak, Secretary of State, in the representation of Mr Bundeskanzler. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12475	Mr President. Mrs Colleague at the Intergovernmental Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The picture of women and society, which is outlined here in this green proposal, shows a completely false picture of Austrian reality in 2005. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: One thing you have to let him: He is just as competent as the Federal Chancellor!]] Mrs Glavischnig, in your speech I sometimes had the impression that you are living in another country and in another time. – I would like to tell you personally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Albania!]] This false social image is probably also the reason why you want to solve the problems of tomorrow with concepts of yesterday. Today, social reality looks quite different and much better for women. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Can you keep your speech without a note?]] The women's policy of this Federal Government has taken into account all areas of life and has brought solutions to the specific needs of each group at all stages of life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stadlbauer.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Social cold!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just listen – there is the Rostra! – then you can answer it. It's relatively simple. This is how – according to my perception – parliamentarianism works. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Parliament is free to speak! You don't have to read everything from the leaf! That is also parliamentarianism!]] Improvements for women have been created at all levels in recent years – from education in school and teaching on targeted measures for re-primary women, measures for reconciling work and family up to special rules in pension law to compensate for lack of contribution time through child rearing. In addition, effective improvements have been made for all women through the pre-drive of gender mainstreaming and other projects, such as women's specific health programmes. [[Call the SPÖ:What?]] I do not want to prejudge the whole area of labour market and qualification initiatives – this is what Mrs Frauenminister Maria Rauch-Kallattnährer will discuss – but I would like to address a number of important other points. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: I thought you could reply competently!]] [[Call the SPÖ: “He wants to make a jux!”]] For education: The Ministry of Education invests around €17 million annually in the promotions of girls and women in future professions. This begins with the advice of girls on technical professions – such as in the “girls in technology” initiative – and reaches out to professors at universities. Today, 55.91 percent of all maturants are female. The proportion of female students rose from 51.1 per cent in 2000 to 53.3 per cent. [[Abg. Sburny: What about the professors?]] - Wait a minute! This trend can also be seen in teaching and research: Since 2000, the number of female professors has increased by more than 25 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: From four to five!]] – And you know: Nothing is more sustainable in women's policy in the long term than education. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: How much is that in numbers?]] The compatibility of family and profession is a central concern of the women's policy of this federal government. The most important step was the introduction of childcare allowance. The group of stakeholders has increased from 78 900 in 1999 to around 168 000 today. – This is not a sign of deterioration! At the same time, we have increased the early earnings limit – from an amount below €4,000 to € 14 000. For the first time, we have introduced a right to parental leave: Each worker and employee in a holding with more than 20 employees shall have a legal right to pursue part-time employment up to the age of seven or up to the time of their entry into school. For improvement in age: The conditions for the right to an independent pension have been simplified especially in the context of the harmonisation of pensions. This is particularly beneficial for women: This will give you easier access to an independent pension. In future, a deposit into the personal pension account will be made for the previous replacement period of child rearing. Times of child rearing will be fully pensionable with 1 350 €. This means doubling the assessment of child rearing times compared to earlier. – The Federal Government invests approximately €1 billion in addition per year for these measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, let me take an example from the art promotion: We have tried to strengthen women's participation in the award of art promotions – with success, as I mean! Today, in contrast to the situation before 2000, we have a nearly balanced relationship between women and men in the advisory committees of the promotion of art. – I know this is just a small example, but it shows that this federal government is pursuing a continuous line in women’s policy. Not least, it finds its expression in the fact that the proportion of female ministers in Austria has reached the 50 percent mark since 1945. So you see: The failure of this government to deal with women's policy issues cannot be said – on the contrary! We have made not only empty words and placards – like you, ladies and gentlemen – but also politics for women! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's even more beautiful!]] [[Abg. No polemics, please!]] The result is apparent in the improvement for every single woman in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12755	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12782	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mr. State Secretary, are you sure that there is not yet a note that you have not read? – It was a bit short now! - You're safe. Okay. [[Intervocations with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] So there is more to be said about women's policy! [[Abg. Prince: It comes to the content!]] [[Further onslaughts at the ÖVP.]] – You have a lot to say for that! Just get out to the speaker's desk, and we'll make it public! What I find fascinating is that Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel, with the fact that he has sent his State Secretary, admits that he is the Federal Chancellor responsible for the present situation of women in Austria and that he bears the full responsibility for the female political failure. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What we can see is that he is trying to press ahead with this responsibility, because he is in the country and could participate in this debate, but where is he? – If the speech comes from his office and his environment, I also understand why he dares not to put himself in the parliament: because it contains very little about the real fears, concerns and realities of women in Austria, as was noted! To Mr Klubobmann Molterer, who had promised that the Secretary of State would be able to answer in a competent manner all the questions asked: That was once again – politely formulated – an empty promise. [[Abg. Steibl: Maybe the questions have not been asked wisely! It always comes up to the questions, which answers you get!]] Are your promises always marked by such long durability? – Maybe have You just forget something in the text. You should have said: Mr Morak, the State Secretary, will be able to answer all questions as competently as Federal Chancellor Schüssel. – Then it would have been a real statement again! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You're right: That's not laughing at all! It is bitter and a poverty certificate for a German chancellor that he feeds more than half of the population with a few poorly read beautiful phrases. – That’s all that You have to offer the women in Austria! [[Abg. Oils: Cheap polemics was that!]] What we have seen is – and my colleague Eva Glawischnig has already pointed out – that the development of serious concern is more than right: The “alarm level red” can only be called out very clearly. In the five years of Chancellor's bowl, more unemployed women than ever before are reported. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: More busy women than ever!]] – Mrs Fekter! If only you'd look at the numbers once! I can give you the documents. There are therefore only more employees, because as employment from one hour on, everything counts. The urgent request contains the exact numbers, as you can read it. The growth in women's employment is exclusively – and exclusively! – due to part-time employment and minor employment – to those areas of jobs from which women cannot obtain existential income. [[Abg. Ellwall: Don't do anything! Yes, yes, yes!]] That's what you're offering women! You'll find it's enough if the man has a job. It is obviously enough if the woman is a little forced to do so, because “za wus” she needs more – in good German formulated. The same is true of your policy: in tax reform and in the fields of work and family. They depend on a completely soft, outdated family and female image, which in a modern state in 2005 really has nothing to look for! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ellwall: There is no longer any superior!]] Only for the sake of completeness, because it is obvious that in the half of the hall this has still not been said as a matter of course: As well as men, women have a right to earn their own living and to pursue employment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Both men and women have the right to enjoy the joys of childcare and to see the child grow up. – You don’t make that possible for them either. Perhaps there is another comment to Mr Stumvoll, who is here again: Yesterday I read with great interest – and some puzzles about your world of thoughts – your broadcast, in which you find it only ‘bio’-logical that Eva Glawischnig is beginning to deal with ‘woman, children and family’. First of all, it is exciting that You cannot leave the word “woman ” alone in the room. “Women” must always be framed immediately by “children” and “family”. “Woman” alone does not appear in your vocabulary or in your world view. Then I thought about why you now think “bio” logically as an incredible formulation. Because of Eva Glavischnig's personal circumstances, is it now "bio"-logical for you that suddenly woman appears as a topic? If you've been listening to Eva Glawischnig in the meeting room more often, you know that she's been working for women's policy for years and time and time and again on the questions of childcare policy. My conclusion is that you obviously think it is either “bio”-logical that women are working for women’s policy. – This will be denied to you by almost every representative in your own ranks. It is not logical and therefore not “bio”-logical that every woman automatically makes women’s policy, as only the ministers of this government show. Or – and this is really my suspicion behind it – you assume that a woman will only begin to exist seriously as a woman and will be allowed to engage in politics with child care issues if she is pregnant or at least has children – not before. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't make such a fool!]] I really think that's an evil sexism that gets through all the time! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Let us now look at what your government is doing in the face of this development in the labour market for women! What are the offers you make to women who become unemployed who lose their job after a child care phase try to get back in, but don't create it? – There will be You will certainly also stress today that half of the AMS funds will be spent on women anyway. I once looked at it. – Let’s look at what they’re spending on! There is, for example, the support base, such as childcare aid. Guess: Is it more men or more women? – 98 percent of women get this, as if it were their sole “bio”-logical responsibility. On the other hand, there is, for example, the creation aid. We know that two thirds of women's business start-ups are being implemented in small businesses. However, the founding aid in the AMS benefits men to the overwhelming majority. More than twice as many men as women receive a founding aid. This goes across: When we look at the work foundations, so-called "implacement foundations", the most successful form of reintegration into the labour market, where there are up to four years of unemployment, i.e. the cost of living is at least covered, and where there are high-quality trainings, we see that there is almost only for men, because they are offered only in the relevant industries. For women, you have vocational orientation courses, where you will be told for a weekend that you can now, where you have already learned to change diapers in the baby, perhaps try a career in the care sector, even though you may be a computer technician. You'll take in extra money next year. – That’s “by chance” a year of election. We know from the labour market initiatives that there are no prepared programmes and rails that could make sense and that you are now starting to finance measures with dumping providers that are probably alibi measures. If a provider offers a re-entry package by half of what serious companies demand and then gets the supplement, then it is already expected that this will again be so courses that women will be introduced into where they will be smuggled out of statistics over a certain period of time, but where they are – and that is the big accusation! – at the end of the day, there are no improved opportunities in the labour market. They treat women as second-class unemployed, and that is unbearable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that part of the misguided women's policy is based not only on the lack of commitment you have to show women's politics, but also on the lack of ideas. We therefore propose to you today, with our proposal, four very concrete measures, which can be implemented immediately, which would substantially help to improve the lives of women in Austria and increase their chances in the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Louter old hats! He'll be overcrowded.]] First of all, this is a “action 10,000”. Some of you will remember the “Action 8 000. ” This was one of the most successful projects for the reintegration of workers that ever existed in Austria. Our aim is to help 10,000 women through such a rail as “Action 10 000” to a job that you would otherwise only help to achieve a weekend vocational orientation course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The second measure we propose to you is that you carefully explore labour market policies and ensure that women and men receive equal opportunities for advice and qualifications, and that you create operational incentives to link economic promotion and women's promotion in order to really improve the opportunities of women in Austria. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e12997	Mrs Fekter is speaking next time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13018	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house and valued guests here in the High House! The Greens' request, especially as regards the explanatory statement, shows that you do not particularly like this country because, as the Greens' programme, you are ruining everything and making it bad. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This government, not the country!]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: The government has made it bad, not us!]] My dear ladies, who have spoken in front of me! Making me ready is not a solution and signals zero competence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear Mrs Glawischnig, your unqualified, superlative remarks to my colleagues, Mr Steibl, and Mrs Steibl, I strongly reject and recall that sexist, unapproachable T-shirt that the Greens have spread as an affront against Mrs Gehrer. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Unqualified? That's honest!]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's it! But scream yourself!]] We're still waiting for an excuse! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With this t-shirt, the Greens have lost all credibility in women's policy issues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Yes!]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: On the matter!]] They've also been researching pretty badly. First, the female employment rate under this federal government has gradually increased and is 7 percent higher than the EU average. In 2004 alone, about 26,531 women's jobs were more involved – so more women were employed in this number of persons – and 20,000 women come to the qualification offensive. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Full-time...!]] – Nothing of that is in your urgent request! We have reduced the tax rate, which has also benefited women, especially those with lower incomes. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a nonsense!]] We have increased the social rate, which has benefited in particular the living conditions of women. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] By the way: The social rate has fallen among SPÖ ministers. Only we raised them again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] After you've slept all this in a way, or you've lost out on your sudel campaign, that positive things have also happened, I would also like to point out the following: For women, we have increased the limit of trust during the baby break from €4,000 to €14 000. We have created a better pension scheme for women, there are pensionable billing periods. Because you're always talking about independent life assurance: I agree with you. Only: We have introduced the pension scheme so that women are insured independently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have dramatically increased the basis of assessment. We have given women a right to part-time. By the way: They are currently making the part-time permanently mediocre, although many women choose this model voluntarily and truly willing to support their quality of life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Freedom of choice!]] For women especially positive is the new employee care, something you totally forget. In fact, women have benefited disproportionately from or have not benefited from the treatment. Women were much more rarely treated because they did not get the benefit of this scheme through the baby break. The new care for employees is the same for women. This is especially useful for women because they have claims here that they never had before. We have created a tax exemption for low incomes up to € 1,000; this also benefits women disproportionately. We have done something particularly relevant for single women, which is from €4 400 to €6 000. And: We focused on women in particular in the last employment package. You should have gone away from that, because you only demand it for 10,000 – we have created it for 20 000! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have created for women the important regulation of afternoon care. And, dearly, Ladies and gentlemen: All measures that support young self-employed people in the founding service are already being used by almost 50 percent of women. That means: To say here that the circumstances of women's lives have deteriorated so dramatically is just a sudel campaign that we do not take seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We take every constructive proposal seriously. Any constructive proposal can be discussed with us. 10,000 new jobs – yes! Only: That's what we already did on 28 October. In September, it decided in the form of €285 million for active labour market policies, in particular by creating skills for women for re-entry and long-term unemployed. Did you sleep that? [[Abg. Neudeck: Where they don't agree, they don't know!]] No, you agreed, but you still slept. What's inside now is already spicy. I remember the manger in the combi loon. What have you accused us of abuse in this regard? Now you're proposing a combi-loan variant, only with two thirds of the takeover. You thought you learned. Thank you for making our proposals your own now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, for years you have been polemizing against child money, and today this word has fallen again: Child benefit is a “job trap” for women. [[Yes-noise and detonative condolences with the greens.]] There's a limit of merit. What about the basic security you're demanding? This is not a job, but a job prevention program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13263	The next item is Mrs Bures. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13286	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter, that the ÖVP has been ideas and powerless in women's policy in recent years, we have all experienced – and above all the women – in this country. Your statements of today and, above all, your attacks and round-trips on the political competitors have also proved that your policy is becoming more and more levelless and stillless, and I very much regret that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: And your broadcasts – what is that?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you pay the € 10 for the e-card?]] Mrs Fekter, I would like to talk about the specific situation of women who do not have much to do with the Larifari of Mr Morak's Secretary of State or with your relief actions. That is why I would like to focus on the facts so that you do not say that it is a bleak step. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Once something new!]] No, it's about facts, it's about the life situation of women. If something in this country is really damn bad – and it's something damn bad in this country – then it's your policy because it has a negative impact on people. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: The weather!]] [[Uje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: It rains, it's cold!]] This is your policy of social cold, of driving and of indifference and powerlessness, and it's really bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the facts. Fact & at least: How has the unemployment of women in Austria already developed in the government responsibility of the ÖVP, the responsible minister – Mrs Collaborine Rauch-Kallat, called women's policy –? – Women’s unemployment rose by almost 40 percent. That's what you have to answer! 150,000 women in Austria find no job, 150,000 women who do not know how to celebrate Christmas this year and what to give their children for Christmas. You are responsible for this: 40 percent more women's unemployment in the last five years! The second fact: What about the poverty of women? – Unfortunately, it is not enough for women to talk about, although Austria is a rich country. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mrs. Colleague! Have you already paid the € 10 for the e-card?]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter, I would have liked to hear your harsh voice when it came to putting women's interests here in this House. But you were stupid, Mrs Fekter! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: So who is shriller, that's why I wouldn't bet!]] Poverty in Austria has increased by 13 percent in your government responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Vienna!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP:Vienna!]] 55 percent of all vulnerable people in Austria are women. Do you know how much money it takes to get out of the month? – With 785 € they have to find the outing in the month! These are 571,000 women, about half a million women who have to find their way out at €785 a month. Fact three – you always say what you have not done in the pension reform –: They've cut down the women's pensions massively. They have led women into poverty by their most maligned pension reforms, which do not deserve the name Reform at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have – in fact three – 230 000 pensioners today due to your policy, who need to get out with €663 in the month. You, Mrs Fekter, I would like to have a great deal of pleasure if you had to do this for only three months. Fact four – and I would like to tell you what your sad, murky policy has done in this beautiful country of Austria –: In Europe, we have one of the highest differences in income between men and women, and your policy strengthens this. Fact five: Let's see what equal opportunities look like in Austria! According to a study by the World Economic Forum, Austria is on the 21st. It's all right. That is, as far as equal opportunities and fairness are concerned, Austria is final. This is a development that has occurred over the last five years because of your non-existent women's policy and a policy that has actually turned against women. Behind these five facts are the fates of women. These are numbers, but behind them are fates of women, of many people, of many children. But you're not doing anything, Mrs. Federal Minister. I've been looking up today. When was the last time you said something about women's unemployment? [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Last week!]] They're silent. Not an issue for months! The Federal Chancellor is silent anyway, State Secretary Morak is the incompetent envoy, and as a competent minister you have been silent for months. You didn't say one word to that! For years there has not been a single measure which improves these five facts for women! Politics is measured by whether or not women's living situation improves, and you're to blame for thousands of today's it's much more difficult to get over the rounds, to finance their lives, to pay their rent, to find a job than it was five years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read the report!]] I can tell you what we stand for: We stand for more women's employment. We stand for fair income from women. We stand for equal opportunities. We could do a lot of things, ladies and gentlemen. It's not that difficult. There are a number of really good suggestions on how to improve women's living conditions. One should not have just removed the kindergarten billions, one could have made sure that the extension of childcare places, the expansion of all day schools is the top priority. Then it would be ensured that the profession and family are actually compatible. We would see childcare places as the top priority, because we know that 25 000 women cannot walk in the workplace only because they do not find a suitable childcare place. What did you do? – You have removed the kindergarten billions. What did you do? – They have made a pension reform on the back of women’s pensions, reduced women’s pensions, led women into poverty, instead of implementing a pension system in which women’s different lifestyles are also taken into account. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We created pension-based claims!]] I give you our pension fairness model, and I hope it will be implemented soon, because then there are fair and fair pensions for everyone in this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another thing: We from SPÖ stand for a modern and advanced women's policy. We do not stand for a women's image as you want a dusty, a backward one. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Come on!]] We want women to have equal participation in this society, and therefore we will also put policy measures in the direction that work and family are compatible, that there is fair pay for women, that women also have career and rise opportunities in this country, that women in old age are not threatened with poverty. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] I tell you, I am not alone, thousands of women wish for this: a modern, progressive women's policy. It's not done by you. Women in this country have earned a better policy than their dusty, backward turn, and therefore a change of course in Austria is at the highest level of time!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13575	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13618	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Bures, I ask you: Why do so many women have only a minimum pension? Who is to blame for the fact that care and child rearing have never experienced appreciation in the time you set up the Minister of Women and were in government? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Right then, when we list concrete facts that do not fit you, because they say positive things, you simply speak of a bad style. – This is not the right women’s policy as we understand it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] To Members of the Greens: You seem to have missed out on the package of measures that has been put into practice for women in working life. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: We already know that!]] You do not seem to know exactly, otherwise you would not have made this urgent request, which calls for similar and even smaller measures when it comes to re-entry. As of next year, there will be wage subsidies for re-privileged women in order to make it possible for those who were in child care to get better entry. There will also be a qualification offensive, where it is not a question of looking at what occupations one can take, but rather at specific training courses, especially for crafts and technology, to improve the knowledge of women who are currently difficult to mediate, or to re-training in certain occupations in the future, in order to increase the possibility of women on the labour market. This is our specific women's policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Qualification measures in particular are the key to employment, in particular for women. That's where you've got to be with the girls. They always say that information campaigns, information brochures, are of no use. We say: It is good that there are campaigns such as “mut!”, girls and technology, which encourage women and, in particular, girls to attend schools in which women’s untypical professions are taught, and that there are info brochures, especially for parents who can advise their children, especially in rural areas, and that not only the three women’s typical professions are taken, which unfortunately is still fact in rural areas. Another point is the promotion of women in science. You don't even address that at all. From 2000 to 2006, almost €9 million will be spent on funding from professors at universities to make money available for women's funding plans at universities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: In the UOG you have clearly worsened it for the women!]] Money will also be made available for the first time for the offensive of women in non-university research. At the time, they didn't care that women were very important in technology and research, so that enough researchers were available. More than €4.5 million will be made available from 2003 to 2006 to promote female researchers in order to create databases for female researchers, but also to promote and integrate networks. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A key feature of the job opportunity is the compatibility of family and work, and there is also a very specific measure: [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] I am addressing the family alliance, which is a strategic cooperation between stakeholders, business, politics and science in order to solve this very problem. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] But what do you say about these concrete measures? - No, that's nothing! They vote against. They even vote against in the Federal Council so that it will take much longer until the “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH” can be established. They are opposed when it comes to concrete measures for women to be able to reconcile work and family. This is your women's policy: When it comes to concrete measures, you are opposed, because it simply cannot be good if it comes from the government! Polemik has lost nothing in women's policy, and I really ask you: Stop worrying the women at last! Work with us on concrete measures, but not on those that have been there for a long time and which will be implemented shortly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13726	Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13747	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As Minister for Women, I am particularly concerned about the employment situation of women, and that is why I see it as my obligation to be present today and to comment on this urgent request. However, I would like this discussion to be conducted with a little more seriousness. Mrs Bures is still in the hall: I don't know if you've seen it yet – but I'd be surprised if you didn't register it as your party's secretary-general – or if you don't want to see it, but to say that I haven't made any statements about women's employment in recent months, I really lack any truth. You can understand: We have not only talked about this, but we have put in place a number of measures. I also spoke intensively about this, for example last week in the Equality Committee with you, but also on a regular basis in the public debate. I would also like to see a little more seriousity in the urgent request of the Greens, for example if you mention numbers. Thus, the increase in female unemployment in all months of 2005 was not higher than that of men. I can prove that to you at any time. In a few months, he was below it. In the case of the statement on the increase in women's unemployment since 2000, you have inadmissibly compared the annual average with a monthly result. You'd have to stay with the seriality... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Weinzinger.]] – Oh, yes, you compared the annual average with November! Compare November 2004 with November 2005, then instead of the 38.6 percent shown by you, the increase is only 24.6 percent! [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: But really not!]] This is, after all, a serious difference. Or also the data given by EUROSTAT. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to have this discussion, but I would like to lead them seriously and not insidiously, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Then do it!]] If you look at the longer-term development of women's employment, you can really say that: Never in the history of the Second Republic, never before have so many women been in employment in Austria as today. In October 2005, 1 494 117 women were employed, which is almost 1.5 million women. I always like to compare with last year under a socialist Federal Chancellor. In 1999, 1.35 million women, i.e. around 150,000 women, were less employed, ladies and gentlemen. And when I look at the unemployment figures from 1999 – Mrs Bures, please listen carefully! – then the following can be seen: In 1999, last year with German Social Democratic Chancellor and Minister of Women, Dr. Prammer, there were 100 224 unemployed women, but only 1.35 million women in employment. In 2004, there are 103,618 unemployed women, which is exactly about 3,400 more women, but there are also a lot more women in employment, namely, around 150 000 more. If you take the rate of women in the main working age, between 25 and 44 years, the employment rate is 77 percent. I can tell you why we are still below that compared to other countries: For years, the SPÖ has fought for equalising the retirement age of women, sending women out of the labour market five years earlier and should not be surprised if fewer women are in employment instead of giving women the chance to have a better starting position in retirement through extended working hours. This government has improved considerably. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to see more serious at the part-time discussion, ladies and gentlemen. I can remember that it was ÖVP politicians in the late 1970s and early 1980s – hotly fought by SPÖ politicians – who called for the introduction of part-time to better balance between family and work: Marga Hubinek, Marilies Flemming, Helga Rabl-Stadler, Ingrid Korosec. Johanna Dohnal and her colleagues fought vehemently. In the nineties you made a turnaround by the SPÖ and in a populist way with the women's people's desire suddenly demanded the right to part-time to fight them again now, 10 years later. You must know what you want, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fact that women want this part-time employment in certain phases of life results in all the surveys because they thus get the better compatibility of family and work. [[Abg. Reheis: That's just not true!]] This government has made sure that this does not have a negative impact on retirement periods: For the pension per month, we have used 1 350 €, the median income of women, and not, as under SPÖ social ministers, the compensatory allowance rate, which has been changed to 48 months, regardless of any income, and not, as with you, to 18 months with no employment income. This is eight times as much, ladies and gentlemen, as among SPÖ Chancellors and SPÖ Women's Ministers. There is really no need for this government to be blamed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The women's employment rate is thanks to God, and the labour supply has increased by 165,000 since November 1999. We have 10.6 percent more women in employment than six years ago. Even women with an upright service relationship with child care benefit are still on the rise of 83 900 and 6.5 percent respectively. This means that in the last five years, an average of 24 000 jobs have been created per year for women. A total of almost 20,000 women were also integrated into AMS employment-enhancing measures in 2004. In 2005, this figure will continue to increase, especially with the skills currently provided, which you have gratefully agreed to, and the aid from the AMS will benefit 135 000 women. Total funding for active and active labour market policies for women amounted to €623.5 million in 2004. This is an increase of 80.4 percent compared to the year 2000! This, ladies and gentlemen, is an active labour market policy for women! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The offer of re-enters in the labour market policy includes the entire instrument, in particular courses with certificate completion or promotion of integration into businesses through wage-cost grants. A further focus is now also placed on health and care professions, the professions with a future. Another concerns women in crafts and technology, which is also aimed at reducing labour market segregation and encouraging women to take up jobs that are traditionally dominated by men. Additional apprenticeships for women are also supported and, above all, in the context of new employment through integration aid and socio-economic enterprises and non-profit employment projects, 5 800 new entrants are also supported. If you say, ladies and gentlemen, in your urgent request, that you want equal rights for women in labour market policies, I would like to say: This would be a step backwards, because at present women are much preferred in labour market policies, and I think that is the right thing to do. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: It would be nice!]] The budget for women in 2006, Mrs Weinzinger, will account for around 54 percent of the labour market policy budget, with a forecast proportion of the female unemployed of 43 percent. Just a moment ago: 43 per cent of the unemployed, namely women, receive 54 per cent of the labour market funds for promotions. If that were the same, I wouldn't be very satisfied because it would harm women. What you demand would harm women. I think that re-entry advice must be our goal. And if you're still demanding, Ladies and gentlemen, that economic promotion should be linked to women's promotion, I should also like to refer to existing arrangements. Maybe you'll find out a little bit about what's going on. The granting of support in the framework of enterprise-related labour market promotion is based on labour market policy, business and economic criteria, with an essential criterion for assessing the eligibility of a project, including equal treatment for women and men in the work process and the professional integration of women. The support measure will conclude an agreement – a contractual obligation of the promoter is also the equal treatment law, and the proposals of the Equal Treatment Commission are naturally respected – and the evaluation will pursue the development of employment, with the development of the employment of women in particular. Here too, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you come a little too late, but the way is right. Let me briefly say something about the employment-dependent pension fund: This claim would also be a step backwards, because until the introduction of the child care allowance... – They may laugh, Mrs. Weinzinger, but the students, the students, the women who stayed at home with the second child and got a third did not laugh that they were excluded from the karenz money, because they did not get any! [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Weinzinger.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The farmers, the entrepreneurs have only got half a karenz money, and you laugh at that, Mrs. Weinzinger?- Oh, my God! That is what the women in this country should remember! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Weinzinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have actually made a quantum leap in this Second Republic with the child care allowance, because for the first time women receive a child care allowance, regardless of their previous work and previous income up to 30 months – parents up to 36 months – to give them time with the children. And we've increased the limit to 14 600 €, which is four times as much as it was in your time, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Therefore, we do not need to be ashamed, but we can be proud of what we have achieved. But we do not stop working because of this, but we will very well continue to work on it, especially on a relatively simple calculation of the limit of merit. I think it's important to give parents safety in their dedication and give women an even better chance to leave their feet in the doorway to the workplace. I therefore think, ladies and gentlemen, that what you are making as a urgent request today is really urgent problems. What you have overlooked, however, is that they have been approached for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13919	Mrs Weinzinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Please, Mrs Colleague, 2 minutes and: Facts!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13943	Mrs. Minister has just claimed that the green model of a working-age pension would be a step back when it allowed students, students and farmers to go out empty again. I'm correcting: In fact, it would be a step forward because, of course, all those persons who did not previously have a job dependent activity would also be equipped with a base amount of €600.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13973	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e13994	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, up and down, back and front! Mrs. Federal Minister! At the beginning of your speech, I would have taken away from you what you asked for, that is, seriosity. In any case, they have mentioned facts in contrast to the Secretary of State, who has actually only shone by spiritual absence. [[Abg. Steibl: That's a premise! Take it back! Take back the “top and bottom, back and front ”!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You have mentioned facts until you report on child care fees. Obviously, you have not read what the green model includes in this point. All right, that hurts. But it also hurts, Mrs Federal Minister, if you ask yourself here and say, in November or October, the number of women in the self-employed has amounted to almost 1.5 million. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, because you have included 100 000 women in these nearly 1.5 million – not always! – the child care benefits, and this is a significant difference. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Always!]] Mrs Bundesminister, the statistics are therefore also subdivided into women who are active in self-employed employment, and there it is not 1.5 million but only almost 1.4 million. So don't confuse apples with pears, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But this also applies to the Greens!]] But it also hurts when colleague Achleitner says that the Federal Government is doing something for the qualification of young girls. Mrs. Federal Minister, the young girls don't need the qualification, they have it! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, of course!]] This has already been mentioned in the debate. We have an overhang of women with the Maturants, we have an overhang of women with the students. Your problem is not the lack of qualification, your problem is what happens afterwards, and you are responsible for it with your policy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can still remember the year 1999, in which a Carinthian head of state announced his ideas about the children's check – so the child care allowance was called at the time – and said: This is why we want to do this so that the labour market is cleared by women. [[Abg. Scheibner: A nonsense!]] Yes, this was literally the statement of the Carinthian head of state: so that women can clear the labour market so that the labour market is open only to men. That was his reason for the model children's check. I can also recall the years 1999 and 2000, the time before the elections. There was a mockery in Carinthia from the liberals to the child - care allowance, which was called: Deutschfeistritz tagesmutterfrei – grips tagesmutterfree. – Interesting! A success of freedom policy: There are no kindergartens in these two communities, there are no even mother-in-laws. This has been celebrated by you as a success. But when you've seen it's not just for women, it's not that good at all, the mockery has been immediately disposed of. As a result, you have consistently avoided – I admit – the link between the fact that the childcare allowance in this variant, as you have done, only brings disadvantages to women on the labour market. You haven't done this consistently, as the Carinthian head of state saw at that time. You said no, that's where the compatibility of family and profession increases. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do her too!]] The opposite, ladies and gentlemen, has happened! The AMS spends – admittedly – more on active labour market policies for women, but you know just as well as I do, for what: so that the women who no longer find a job after the childcare allowance – and that will become more and more – will get a quick-moving course somewhere, where they will then learn to orient themselves in a professional way. [[Abg. Steibl: Good! But then it's also right that we stay at 24 months' notice and don't go to 36 months as you demand!]] But this is not the problem of these women. They have had some good, yes very good qualifications before. They had only one problem: a child. And that has become a problem in view of your policy. Child and child care – these are the problems. It is a shame that we cannot solve this problem differently. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Example: Scandinavia. Yes, why, ladies and gentlemen, do you think these are better off? – Because they have provided for them accordingly, through a sufficient supply of childcare facilities, but also through jobs for women with the highest qualifications, where they also receive sufficient income. But that's not exactly what you're doing! Where do you want to send the women back when they try to get back in after the babysitting phase? - In the cheap jobs! Yes, care, simple care, care, that's what you're looking for for the women! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Care!]] That's exactly where the difference is with the Scandinavian countries, because they say: Care and child care also need the highest qualifications. I agree. But you don't allow this woman with this exit model. That is exactly what leads to the consequence that women then – you can check this, Mrs. Federal Minister, the figures come from Statistics Austria, year 2003 – earn a little over €15 000 gross on average, €15 000 gross! Go back to this, ladies and gentlemen. What monthly income does that mean? We're talking about gross income. – That’s less than € 1,000 if I count 13 and 14 now, gross! We're talking about gross income, average! Yes, how can you live on it?Unknown term type: "%s".? You know as well as I do that it's not enough for an independent life. The only solution you have to offer is to say that women should marry. Or you say they're married anyway, they don't need so much money anyway. – But that is no longer the reality, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, because women are very likely to measure politics by giving them the same opportunities, the same income and the same qualifications as men. And you still refuse to do so, ladies and gentlemen, in practice. I admit that we have lost the request for the presence of the Federal Chancellor. But if we were to recapitulate what you said in the debate, then we would actually need a request for the spiritual presence of the government parties, but that is not what the Rules of Procedure have already provided for.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14152	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14180	Mr President. High house! You know what I really find unacceptable, and I'm surprised by that, too: The Greens are a party that has always stressed how important it is to make authentic policies, and how important it is to put tolerance in the foreground. But what I heard from you today is nothing but a canon full of prejudices and clichés. If you're trying to pick up a young woman's image of women, I can't help but reject it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Unemployment has risen. This is a problem that we accept, wherever we have already prepared many measures. [[Abg. Oillingers: At least you admit it now! That has been disputed before!]] Nevertheless, you have to note that the employment of women – and this is what this urgent request is about – is constantly increasing. This is a fact that you, even if you still repeat it so often, cannot change. According to the Lisbon target, the female employment rate is expected to be 60 percent, and Austria is really on average here. This success course continues, which is our goal to encourage women and to give them optimism, but not to elevate their fears and spread fear of the future here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In 2004 20 000 women were employed in the AMS, which means a total budget for active and active labour market policies of €623.5 million. [[Abg. Oils: What does that mean?]] This is an increase of 80.4 percent compared to 2000. An increase of 80.4 percent since 2000! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Childcare is a profound social measure. If you ask for a step back here, namely to re-establish a work-dependent pension fund, and then, after you have distributed your application, find out, hoppala, we have actually forgotten the farmers who now have a base amount, then I would ask you to reword it in your formula and rework the application, because he does not seem to have been poured out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, the childcare allowance has led to the increase of the population to 32,000 and also to a 3 percent increase in father's care allowance since the introduction of the child care allowance. There are also first successes, and you have to highlight them too. Apart from that, we have increased the childcare allowance for multiple births. We have increased family allowances for children over the age of three. These are all things that are true and right and wherever the Federal Government also shows that it has already taken control of the scepter of action here, including the question of day care. Mrs Gehrer provides 60 000 day care places, of course with the aim of having a comprehensive childcare in Austria. That's something you can't say badly because of much, much noise and much uncertainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to focus on what Mrs Bures said, who was sorry that women's pensions are 42% lower than men's. – Yes, but this is due to the wrong pension policy of the SPÖ Social Ministers. If women today earn a third less than men, I ask you: For example, who is responsible for the income situation in the ÖGB? Who is there doing the wage policy for women? – These are the red unionists! You really have to take your nose, and there you are required to look at the wage level of women in the individual contracts! If, in this case, committed women's politicians seem to be unsuccessful, because they cannot prevail in their own party, then I think it is necessary to have an internal discussion at once, but it is simply unfair to swing the broad cue here, if it was you who simply rejected the setting of women's and social policy measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] There was a minimum pension of € 560. We increased this by 100 €. With you, 15 years of contributions were necessary for a decent pension among women. We have made it possible for only seven years to reach a claim. And if it were the SPÖ's wish, we wouldn't have a babysitting allowance today. I remind you of the statement that you don't give every woman the karenz money, et cetera, et cetera. These are statements you no longer like to remember, but they are true. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Selective perception is this!]] It is also true that the Federal Government's employment package is a positive one, that there should be women-specific consultations in the AMS in the future, that there should be training measures for 20 000 women, and not only for 10 000 women, that a priority must be given to women in technology, and that it is also necessary, above all, to inform young women in school, in the context of training about what work offers exist. For if many young women opt for professions, often also for teachers who have a low wage level from the outset, it is not only the policy that is responsible for it, but it is a task for all of us to inform young people at best about their chances. This support package also includes assistance for re-entry women in a range of 5,800. Finally, the budget for women in 2006 is expected to account for around 54 percent of the labour market budget. This is a huge sum that we also want to use efficiently and where I invite you to cooperate constructively, to participate creatively with ideas and, above all, to implement what you have decided to do in this request, rather than trying to speak badly and impress anyone with populist stand-ups here, because I guarantee one thing: This certainly impresses no one and not young women at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14279	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14306	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! A brief follow-up in political education for my predecessor. Dear colleague Fuhrmann, collective agreements are still being negotiated in Austria between employers' representatives and employees' representatives. The trade union is, of course, involved with workers' representatives. There are red trade unionists, black trade unionists. And with employers' representatives, there is the Chamber of Commerce, which is the representatives of employers, as the name already says. And both are responsible. Please, don't always put responsibility on a part, because I can't imagine that the union says no, I don't want women to make more money. - So much for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The only positive thing about my previous speaker's words was that she was the first of the ÖVP speakers and BZÖ speakers, who at least once found out, yes, we have a problem in Austria, there are many unemployed women. All the others have negated this, all the others have spoken beautifully. But, Mrs Fuhrmann, you deserve a praise, at least you have held, yes, we have to do something. The list of measures alone, however, does not help women either, because it does not help anything as we see it. We see the situation is dramatic. The Greens describe in the urgent request that the situation is dramatic. We have the highest unemployment since 1945: 150 000 unemployed women! And Mrs. Rauch-Kallat – I've been very careful today – says she's proud of it. This must be done once on the tongue – that was a joyful promise – to let go of it. You have to think about what she said today: She's proud of it! [[Interference of Federal Minister Rauch-Kallat.]] - I'm not twisting anything at all! You said you did everything, and you're proud of the situation. In addition, in a reply to a request from May of this year, you - and I have written this - still claimed that it is unscrupulous to speak of a dramatic increase in women's unemployment. Even in the Equal Treatment Committee, you just said that everything was wonderful, everything was good. That means that sometime you have critically spoken out or seen a problem here, I have never experienced it. The employment rate is only growing on the basis of very dubious statistics, by counting the number of children in employment, the increase in part-time work, the small number of jobs. We've heard all of this. The big difference in income between women and men is to be mentioned, only a third of the women who were in the baby break create the return. – And all of this calls State Secretary Morak, the competent representative of the Federal Chancellor, an improvement. He said literally today: There are improvements for every single woman in Austria. – Are these improvements, Mr. State Secretary? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] You, Mrs Fekter, who you have been calling so much again, said today that all these are problems that you do not take seriously. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No!]] That's what we should tell the women outside. This is what we should say to women who are unemployed, who do not create the career that is being pushed into poverty by...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14365	Mrs Fekter, calls from her own place only – and not persevering!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14383	These are problems you don't take seriously. But it describes not only the Greens in their request these problems, but all the studies and rankings published recently, Austria, in the promotion of women, in the differences in income, in the compatibility of work and family and, far behind, the OECD, the Chamber of Labour in Austria, the EU, the World Economic Forum and, and, and, far back, and. And how do you react? How does Mrs Rauch-Kallat react? - She's hiding. She just has a cover-up strategy. She is mute, and her message is: Everything's fine. And today she's still putting a little on it, saying she's proud of it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Take this back, the "hidden"!]] I consider this to be grossly negligent to the women concerned in Austria, to be grossly negligent to the women who find no work, to the women who are forced to accept part-time employment, with incomes of which they and their children can hardly live, to be grossly negligent to the women who cannot live by their pension, and to be grossly negligent to women who, despite equal or even better performance, earn at least 30 to 40 percent less than their male colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The “conceal” take you back!]] The Greens propose four measures. I think it's basically good. However, I think we need to make a large overall concept for women in Austria, and this must be put into a large overall concept. The SPÖ women have these concepts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] For example, let us just look at the income shears closer or what needs to be done! Already at the start of work – you learn something now when you listen a little bit – women earn 15 percent less than men, and then it goes on rapidly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] And in the final effect, women have a 40 percent lower income than men. We all know the numbers. As Mrs. Rauch-Kallat signaled again, everything is good, the income sheath closes anyway. Mrs Rauch-Kallat, if you do not think anything about what you can do about it, then I suggest to you, take further assistance with the SPÖ women, take further assistance in the matter of women's policy to Barbara Prammer, who presented a package last week and explained that this package will allow us to close the income shears by 3 percent over the next five years, with measures such as the Federal Women's Fund, the reorientation and qualification of women in employment, the reorientation and qualification in re-entry, which will finance all the measures that the AMS cannot finance. This is the further development of an idea of a work foundation, wherever you have already meant, someone has to prove to me that it makes sense for women to make their own foundations. – So much about the topic of women's minister. We need comprehensive childcare facilities, day-to-day schools, more full-time jobs for women in order to be able to close the income shears. I admit that many women may want part-time work in their current situation, but by your policies, your actions are pushing more and more women into a regular working time that is called part-time. Half of all women in work are no longer full-time. That's where all the alarm bells have to ring. But with you, Mrs. Minister, everything remains silent, including yourself. We need mandatory women's promotion plans and, and, We need public procurement, not just as you have done today. There's something in there somewhere that needs to be taken into consideration for women. No, that must be a priority! Companies engaged in business with the State must be able to provide mandatory women's promotion plans. Mrs Minister, you should always ask yourself which side you are on, because you have proved today that it is simply and simply not true that you are a woman's minister. Unlike you, we want to work hard and propose measures. Your announcement is that you can continue to be inactive, you are proud that there are 150,000 unemployed women. And our announcement is, we're on the side of women. We close the income shears by 3 percent over the next five years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14454	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14476	Mr President. Minister! High house! The colleague in front of me said that the SPÖ women have concepts. – Unfortunately, the SPÖ men have not listened to them for many years, otherwise they would have been able to implement the concepts, and then perhaps the situation of women would be a lot better than it is today. But, unfortunately, they did not seem to be able to get through there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Only one thing – and I give you the right – must we not do it: close your eyes to the situation before which the women stand. There are, of course, differences in pay for equal qualifications and for equal training for men and women. And of course, women also have disadvantages on the labour market because they can have children or because they have children. And, of course, there are many problems for women in child care. And there is no need to hide, but very well to show these things, to take them seriously and to approach them. That's why the government is trying. It may also have tried the last government. But you can't demand that within so short a time, within six years, we improve all that has been missed in many years. Nor do I think it is good to accuse someone of spiritual absence in such a discussion, in order to respond to Mr Öllinger's comments, because I cannot oblige anyone to be involved and present in any form, just as we cannot oblige men to claim their father's care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Weinzinger.]] - Yeah, you can't. But this way, too, my colleague, Mr Oellinger, cannot put anyone's spiritual absence here. I mean, that doesn't mean much in this discussion if you really want to do something. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That was immense!]] The measures taken by the government, which we have just decided in recent meetings, will only be able to take place next year. But precisely because the government also sees the situation of women and has recognised the problems, we are now trying to take action with this large labour market package, which has been made, of which, of course, women also benefit. And of course, labour market service promotions mainly benefit older workers and women. In most of the measures, these groups are preferred. In particular, these groups may take the measures. So, in so far as the measures adopted by the Government are concerned, they will certainly not be taken until next year, and then we will see whether they are useful or not. I assume that they will very well help improve the situation. For child care. – It is interesting how you dealt with this idea, which was born years ago by a country chief, – at that time it was called child care check; at last it was also recognized that it was an idea by the head of state Haider who implemented it in the final effect throughout Austria – when it was said that the check is not covered, it is not feasible, it is not feasible. Then you did a pilot project where you showed, it's possible, it's feasible. Then it was implemented all over Austria. That means: The check is and was covered! – And it’s nice to hear from your side, from the opposition, that you’re also saying that you don’t want to abolish child care money anymore, because you too have realized that it was a good introduction that it’s a sensible story, you just want to change it. It's okay. We would also like to see some changes, because, for me, there is still a great drops of advertising because there is a limit of merit, because much would be changed in the direction as you would imagine from the Greens. Unfortunately, we did not enforce the coalition partner. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: We're going to be!]] But perhaps you can take further steps in the future to ensure that the limit of merit is first raised and eventually completely abolished. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs. Fekter also complained about that! She was, however, the only one of the ÖVP!]] That's where you have to clap, because that's your demand too! But you just can't do it, gal? They can't do it. That's a bit the problem: that even with good ideas of the others, you can't clap or that if you have good ideas, you mean, just because someone else says, they're not good. – It’s sad! You know, and that – so much to the conclusion – is in the final effect the whole problem in the women's discussion and when you talk about women's solidarity. I assume that all the women sitting here in this House today are women who have been happy to have children or who will still have children, but who also want to agree on child, family and profession. That is why we are sitting here, because there are certainly some ideas about this, which it wants to implement in this area. But if the discussion in the final effect goes beyond how I experience it in many women's discussions, who is now the better mother: those who stay at home, or those who go to work and also care for the family, and this discussion is limited to this question – especially because of this because among women such discussions arise – then, I say, we unfortunately have no solidarity with women. And so long we will not be taken seriously with all the ideas in the final effect as long as we have this discussion, who is now the better mother. We can only improve the framework conditions for women by giving them freedom of choice, and this has also succeeded in us with a first step, with the childcare allowance. I am not saying that this should be the last step, but it is a first step to follow. I would be pleased if women could perhaps be able here in the House to make a common request outside all party ideologies, to show where we have common women's policy concerns, and not to say: One of these parties does not fit us because they are supposed to make a soft policy, and the other do not fit us because they hold on to a different policy of women than we do or have a different understanding of women!, but if we manage to start a common initiative here, then perhaps the men here in the house would all take us seriously once.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14568	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14589	Mr President. High house! Mrs Fekter, you submitted to us that we do not like this country. [[Abg. Donabauer: She spoke well! Well spoken!]] One can now be even more divided opinion, only: What I reject with determination, and what I think is absolutely not right, is that you submit to us that we are going to “put this land in the dirt”! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure! Sure!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! So, please, Mrs Fekter, don't talk in here, and talk like that. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: After what has the Lord Ollinger just said?]] You're not here with us! Really not! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you blame us, Mrs Fekter, for the fact that we currently have 120 308 women who are unemployed in Austria – and for women who are in AMS courses, who receive child care benefits and who are not even unemployed – that we want to get this into the dirt, then this is the last thing and is actually discrediting you yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mainly in Vienna!]] That's why I'm just leaving it that way now, really! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bleckmann, I give you the right to: Sometimes it would be really good to pull on a strand. And I also think you see some things differently from some colleagues or even colleagues of your party or parties. Just look at this. On the other hand, you talk about the natural disadvantage of women, and you say, of course, there are shortcomings in childcare. You know, and that's the difference: We do not believe that this is “natural”. [[Call the ÖVP:Supernatural!]] This is not natural, but it is political decisions that have led to it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No! That's not true!]] And it is at all times that we take back these political decisions, turn them into a different direction, so that there is no more discrimination and that we have enough childcare places. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You only want to exercise political pressure!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are happy to be there, and we will be happy to go together if we achieve something in this direction. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Whoever gets the children is really not a political decision! That's just not true!]] Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, you have... – No, I would like to put a few more numbers in the room first, because it may also make the orientation easier: Mr Fuhrmann submitted to us prejudices and clichés when we represent our women's policy approaches and also our family policy viewpoint. Dear colleague Fuhrmann! I would like to mention a number that reads as follows: 85 percent of women between the ages of 18 and 60 believe that family and work must be compatible. 85 percent – a very, very high percentage! If we start from this need for women, we need to do something, then we cannot leave everything as it is now. - Good. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For the reasons for women's unemployment, 71 percent of the same age group indicate that the children or the family are the reason why they cannot be employed. – So 85 percent want to be active, and 71 percent cannot because they have family and work. Now there's the worm inside: They like to, but they can't. And there ends your constantly quoted freedom of the woman to decide. It is de facto no freedom as long as the numbers look that way! It is absolutely not a freedom! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] In the context of the entire debate on working time, we have now often discussed part-time work, and you, Mrs Minister, have also called for seriousness in the debate on this subject. I really want to try to bring them in. You sometimes assume that we want part-time opportunities on the one hand and, on the other hand, you say – then again when so many women are part-time. – Yes, we want part-time, if this means, above all, that employment and family work is distributed equally and fairly between men and women. Then that's a great thing. And part-time is a good thing if it can take place to a sufficient extent on good conditions. But we don't have that right now. At present, it looks that women are largely those who have to do family work and work, and this part-time work is often involuntary. Mr Binder has provided a very good example of a supermarket that has been opened nearby in the Committee. 15 employees: 14 men and women. You can guess who the head is: the man, and he works full time. A representative also works full-time, all other workers part-time. These women do not voluntarily work part-time, but the companies employ them for 25 hours per week, because they have an irregular buffer amount of work without having to pay overtime. If you really want to improve something essential in the field of part-time, we agree that overtime must be paid from the hourly scale on which the employment contract is: If a woman has 25 hours of weekly work, the 26. Hour of overtime and to pay accordingly. – Now it's 39. or 41. Hour paid as overtime. If we do this, we have achieved a great deal for women, and then there are no company structures on the back of women who carry out their personnel policy and their juggling with workers. That would be a good step we could take together. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Part-time work is also disadvantaged in so far as: We have a cut of the labour cost of 8 € at part-time; in full-time: 11 €. That is, in part-time women simply deserve much less. It must be clear to you if you stand behind it and say that they should only work part-time. It must be clear to you too! A further step – in addition to measures such as this overtime payment – is clearly an income-dependent pension fund, which really allows men and women to do family work and work. And I would like to stress here once again: In any case, it should continue to be such that a fixed base exists, as it is now, but the above-mentioned karenz money would be income-dependent. That means, you don't have to fear that those who get childcare money now. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14770	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e14791	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It's the same thing as before: The women in this country have not deserved to hold for party-political small money of a party just because you just have a survey depth! Ladies and gentlemen! Every unemployed woman and every unemployed man is one or one too much. [[Abg. Silhavy:... joke of the day!]] But the picture that the Greens draw in their statement on the urgent request is simply wrong. Freedom of choice is stated! Every woman has to be able to choose which working time model is right and good for her. [[Call to the Greens: That would be nice!]] But one thing has to be held: Women's employment increased by 1.9 percent in the previous year, and unemployment fell by 9.7 percent for older women over 50 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Say something to young women too!]] It is also unfair that nothing is done for re-primary women. [[Abg. Oillinger: Please also say something about the unemployment of young women!]] In 2004, 15 800 new entrants were included in various support programmes of the AMS. 15.5 million € will be used for this. I'd like to count you a few: Qualification measures for low-qualified women, career coaching, childcare support, promotion of private childcare facilities, but also an example that is very dear to me, entitled "Women in IT", a project in which mothers in Karenz are further trained online from home in cooperation with the company, an important measure especially for our women in rural areas. However, re-entry will succeed especially if the contact between women and the company does not break out. This is something that is lived every day in small and medium-sized enterprises. With the initiative “Taten instead of words” companies are given tips for implementation and also brought best practice examples in front of the curtain. Actions instead of words – a motto that you should also take to heart! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This federal government is promoting women who want to break out of the classic role models. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The joke of the day – the second!]] In recent years, many projects have already been implemented, such as the "Girls' Day". And the statistics give us the right to: The proportion of those girls who go into the five typical professions is already falling. If it was 80 percent earlier, we are already talking about 65 percent of all the projects that are being lived. And what does your request mean, “Women jobs ”? – Jobs do not have gender-specific allocation, nor do collective contract agreements which the social partners negotiate with each other. [[Abg. The third joke!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: This is the third joke of the day!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you criticize the low limit of trust in the karenz money. It was this federal government that made it possible for all women – as entrepreneurs are women – to receive karenz money and to earn something for it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] 30 years of Social Democratic Social and Women's Ministers have not achieved this! One word to the companies: Austria is not a land of housewives and mothers! In 2004, with the support of the AMS, 7,502 persons took up the business creation programme. The proportion of women is 35 percent. 5 million € were made available for this purpose. This shows us: Austria is a successful female country, because about a third of the companies in that country are run by women. The founding rate for the new foundings is about 30 percent throughout Germany, and even 40 percent in Lower Austria. In one, ladies and gentlemen, I give you the right to: It would be desirable if more men were to declare themselves willing to go to Karenz, because only those who have experienced it themselves know what he is talking about. Ladies and gentlemen! We're putting action – you're just talking about it. Finally, Mrs Bures: There may be no level and no style. Your contributions to debate, but not our policies, because we are driving a successful course. Do you know what it means to change the course on the highway? – You become a ghost driver! – They want to become political spirit drivers, we keep the course!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15000	The next speaker is Mr Christ. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15022	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! "Company whose existence depends solely on paying their employees less than a wage sufficient for life should no longer have the right to continue their business in that country. With a wage sufficient for life I mean more than the mere minimum of existence – I mean my wages, which make a decent life possible.” This statement, ladies and gentlemen, by US President Roosevelt of the end of the 1930s, is, I think, still ardent and very interesting. If I hear – and that has already been mentioned – Mr Fekter, who does not really want to take women's situation seriously, then this is of great importance. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I don't take the... campaign seriously! – Solutions! Solutions!]] Work, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to be rich, and the woman is not quite. On average, full-time women earn only 69 percent of male income, in Upper Austria only 64.4 percent; only Vorarlberg is still below. The causes are diverse: They range from discriminatory evaluation of women's work to open and hidden wage discrimination. The causes must once again be combated with a reasonable, targeted and consistent policy of equality and equal treatment. It's just about justice, ladies and gentlemen. The much praised increase in employment is almost entirely to be recorded in the women's account, and more precisely, it is not a full-time but part-time employment relationship, as we have often heard, and above all other forms of precarious service. Part-time is often difficult to link with independent life assurance, and in reality it refers to women's role as earners, leaving only the choice of finding and keeping a main earner – or a life in relative or absolute poverty. Part-time, ladies and gentlemen, does not just mean working shorter, but is usually lower qualified, much more insecure and, above all, worse paid than women's already poorly paid full-time jobs. Each third part-time woman works as an auxiliary worker, as an educated employee or in simplest activities. Only every tenth woman has a higher function or leadership. With regard to these perspectives and the actual offers on the labour market, there really is no reason to rejoice or to reject, as “woman” unfortunately must find it among the governmental parties of God. Part-time work is also paid less than full-time work. In the manufacturing and service sectors, the average hourly wage for full-time is about €11, with part-time about €8. One third of the growth in part-time is in the lower-average economic classes such as trade, hospitality, private households and personal services. And where part-time work is well paid, it often replaces full-time jobs, especially in public administration or in education. And in addition, in the well-paid production of property only full-time jobs are lost. Ladies and gentlemen! In this environment, the re-enters, women who want to get back into work due to a longer career break, for example after a baby break. And at this moment they have to acknowledge that, whether they want or not, they are becoming strategic toys for labour cost reductions in the farms, because often – and we have heard it properly today – companies use part-time to the detriment of women as a working time buffer, because they do not pay any extra benefits for the necessary and then provided. And what woman dares to say no if she urgently needs the income of work? The fear of the loss of the necessary job makes women very suffering workers. There's a statement from one of my many accompanying top-experienced managers from the time I've been working at Carrera Optyl, who has always said he's much preferable to work with women, because these are more sufferingable. – So this is a picture of women’s work you need to have once like these international managers! In addition to the financial disadvantages, however, after a longer break in babies or families there are no longer usable qualifications – child care offers are missing anyway – which are a major reason for the difficulty of re-entry into the profession, even making them impossible. Dramatic is therefore also the number of re-primary women, who are then unemployed: Within a year – from 2004 to 2005 – she has risen to 20 700, including the training participants, thus Austria by 47 percent within one year! It is quite a joke if, in the constantly false claims of colleague Bleckmann – today supported by colleague Fuhrmann – the ÖGB is also blamed here. [[Abg. Steibl: What does “false ” mean? You didn't understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, finally start making useful and helpful policies for women and continue the successful path of a 30-year-old SPÖ women's policy! We will be happy to advise you free of charge.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15087	Mrs Tamandl is now speaking. 5 minutes of welcome; Your group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15108	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We heard it again today: The opposition once again operates polemics on the back of the women, which is very bad. The present proposal and the demands contained in it clearly document that the theme range of criticism is very broad, but the strategic problem solutions are very thin. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With your demands, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, you document a superficiality that can only be described with “effect hashery”. As far as measures against unemployment are concerned, too, ladies and gentlemen, holistic thinking is needed. [[Abg. Oellinger: “populism” you must say!]] Punctual activism will not bring success, even long-term success. The Federal Government's economic policies have been and are of the highest priority for sustainable growth and employment-enhancing measures, while safeguarding social security and taking environmental concerns into account. On the one hand, there has been a steady growth in employment in recent years – we have heard it today, I do not need to stress it all again – an increase of 3.3 percent since 2000. The total employment rate in Austria in 2004 was 67.8 percent, with women rising to 60.7% in 2003 and men falling to 74.9%. On the other hand, unemployment has risen since 2001. But that is, please, not an Austrian phenomenon, but it is the same in the whole European comparison! 4.8% in 2004 – this means that we are the country with the fourth lowest unemployment rate within the European Union! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] However, economic growth is an important prerequisite for employment growth, because in view of the rationalisations that contribute significantly to our progress, economic growth of more than 2.5 percent is currently needed in order to permanently reduce unemployment. What are the measures, ladies and gentlemen, which mean more than pure and punctual activism? – I can introduce some of the Federal Government’s activities that document innovation, strategy and holistic thinking that are promising success across economic weaknesses. Unfortunately, they can only be presented here in an exclusive way. On the subject of budget. Almost half of the active labour market policy budget is used for measures specifically geared to women, particularly those involving 67 percent of those who participated in training. In the field of labour market promotion, the share of women in 2004 was about 50 percent on average of the total expenditure on support, which can be allocated to gender. On the issue of compatibility of family and profession. I don't know – the childcare allowance is your favorite child, although you weren't for it! I think that it is much better now than before when de facto has ruled a ban on employment than there was only the amount of earnable employment. Now the earnable limit is 14 600 €. And please, this pity that the men don't go to Karenz! – This is a bit of a self-responsibility. It can't be that it's just about maintaining the level of income, but you also have to raise the men a little more up and say, from your side, too: Please take care of your children! Stay home! I sometimes feel that it's a bad status if a man stays at home, because you're just doing this bad. And I think that men, if they want to, will stay at home even if we improve the image of fathers living at home and caring for children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to return to two things that have already fallen into the debate. This is, on the one hand, the poverty trap and, on the other, the question of pensions. We increase by 1. January 2006 minimum pensions at € 690. Only 154 000 older women receive more pension, which is €27 per month than it is now. Since 2000, this is already 100 € more, which is at least 1 372 S. I don't think you can talk about Peanuts there. Mr Christ, you mentioned that only one out of ten women were in a higher position, all of them auxiliary workers. – We are now making a better policy so that the girls are better trained so that they have better chances! We're living in another generation now. There are more maturants, more students. They will also have better chances! But of course they also want to go in part-time – so that they can reconcile work and family. Please don't always do this so bad! We are on the right track with this policy. You can join all the measures we have taken on the subject of women and the labour market, but do not always make them bad, but go the right way!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15163	Mrs Stadlbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes. You know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15189	Mr President. Mrs Tamandel claimed that there was an employment ban on the former karenz money scheme. I'm actually correcting once again: That's not true! At the time, there was the possibility for women to earn for this, even for men, which was called partial care. Women were also insured under labour law. You have taken away this legal protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15216	Mrs Binder-Maier is now the last speaker to speak. 5 minutes of welcome; this is also the remaining speaking time of your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15238	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The Minister of Women has already approved of us. Mrs Tamandl, Mrs Fekter! If you say what is a fact, it really has nothing to do with making something bad or mediocre, but it is about worrying about the situation of women in Austria and about those who are disadvantaged. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second. Ladies and gentlemen! What I would like to say is: It is clear that the role of women – women in and for themselves – cannot and must not be defined solely by child war. But only the fact that women are giving birth to children brings disadvantages to women. Something else. Mrs Bleckmann, you said: The check is covered. – I am personally worried about the financial viability of FLAF and the further financing of child money, because the gap is getting bigger and bigger. Ladies and gentlemen! The longer women are removed from the labour market, the longer they are away from the labour market, the more difficult it is for them to return. The current data and facts are available. They were called, they are not spoken away, they are not beautiful, they may possibly interpret. The overall objective must be to raise women's employment so that women's poverty can be combated, thus making a clear balance between women's and men's income differences. Ladies and gentlemen have requested concrete measures, I call you three: First of all, the creation of enough many and manageable childcare facilities. In our view, the expansion of comprehensive childcare facilities also has positive effects, namely that we create federal uniform quality criteria, that the legal claim for children and parents can be demanded, and that cross-communal projects are forced mainly in rural areas. It also has a side effect on job creation, on the one hand, through the necessary construction measures, on the other due to the increased need for qualified care staff. And we need school forms all day. Of course, implementation requires that the countries and, above all, the communities be included financially in the arms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second measure, ladies and gentlemen, must be the restructuring of the existing child allowance. The current child allowance is not satisfactory and includes many, often insurmountable obstacles for women. Our concrete proposals would be: Previous entry should pay off. The formula shall be: The shorter the karenz, the higher the karenz money. Right to be half a year more with the child when both parents share the care period. Those who reduce normal working time by at least two-fifths have no confidence limit. – So much just to mention a few points. The benefit, ladies and gentlemen, the allowance for children, is not a social benefit, it is an income replacement. This immediate programme is only a first step. The second step – the forward step – must be the income dependent child money. We support the Greens on this issue. The third concrete requirement is the implementation of the father month. Fathers should be able to share in the education of their children. They are wanted as active fathers. This means a relief of women, a deepening of the relationship between children and fathers, a strengthening of the social acceptance of child rearing, and that partnership and equal responsibility for family work is not a keyword or lip commitment. These are three concrete measures, ladies and gentlemen, which detract and improve the situation of women, because the economic and financial security of women means higher incomes, decent jobs and independent and thus also protection from violence. The women want and are allowed to agree on both work and family. Therefore our full support for the request of the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15317	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the self-employed Amendment No 742/A (E) by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on 2005 – the worst year for women on the labour market. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[17:13:34]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15353	We now come to the request of the honourable Members. Stoisits, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 732/A (E) by Mr Mag. Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, a period of 20 years to 20 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15390	Mr President. Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to welcome the listeners on the balcony and on the gallery today, especially the Sammy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have tabled a deadline for a motion for a resolution which we have tabled at the last plenary session of the National Council. I would like to remind you, figuratively reminding you of what was the reason for this. A few weeks ago, curious scenes were truly happening in Carinthia. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A madness!]] There has been a local tower of the new quality. Head of State Haider has arranged to storm local panels – “storming” is now meant symbolically – by ordering him to remove existing bilingual town boards, namely a panel standing there, whose placement was completely undisputed. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Here you go! Stay honest!]] It has been set up in a part of the municipality of Eisenkappel, Slovenian Železna Kapla, with the name Vellach, Slovenian Bela, because Eisenkappel has seen a positive development, which is not so easy in southern Carinthia, in terms of tourism and, now again, economic development. It must be said that iron cape has had a very, very difficult past in recent years. In recent years, businesses have locked up there, an incredibly high level of unemployment has developed there – at least in the period of the last 15 years that I have observed. But still, iron cape, Železna Kapla grows. It was then added that a bilingual village panel was set up in a part of this community. The basis for this is the Topography Regulation of 1977; so far you have to go back. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Where are the town boards in Burgenland?]] This map has been set up there, because it is now built territory, and the citizens who live there have the right to have a 50 km/h restriction in built areas in the form of town panels. This is the real purpose of a village panel – not that you know where you live, that you find home. Some suspect that this is the case, so that when you go home by car, you know where you are at home. No, it's not! The town board has the main purpose of identifying where the area begins, because it automatically enters a 50 km/h rule according to the road traffic regulations. Therefore, it is also so important – in addition to the purpose of finding a home. And it was ordered by Mr. Landeshuptmann that this panel be kind of stormed, it was arranged to remove it. Thankfully, however, this has not been as easy as possible, because on one of the two boards the local council of the Carinthian Unity List, Koroška Enotna Lista, Franz Josef Smrtnik, who is already very, very long municipal council and is also represented in the municipal board, has chained. He was physically opposed to this panel being removed, namely using not only his body strength, but also his health. He has chained himself to this town panel to prevent the right to be broken in Carinthia, but not by anyone, for example not by someone who travels through a village too quickly by car. This is also a breach of justice, it is not allowed, ladies and gentlemen. Remember that when you see local panels! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is what the Federal Chancellor does!]] To drive faster than 50 km/h is not allowed, except on this curious piece of highway in Carinthia, which the Vice-Cancellor somehow believes to be able to live out his bubbling dreams or perhaps puberty fantasies or similar. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Tell the Rudi Vouk! He's done that purposely! He was deliberately driving too fast! That's incredible!]] In principle, 50 km/h. And all that sounds so funny is not only a breach of law, ordered by the head of state of Carinthia, but is a permanent breach since 1955, since the State Treaty of Vienna was concluded. This is that state treaty, ladies and gentlemen, whose fifty-year anniversary we celebrated this year – and in very many matters, points and articles of the State Treaty as well – because this State Treaty has brought Austria full sovereignty and independence. However, this State Treaty, and in particular Article 7, also provides Austria with a fifty-year history of the permanent daily breach of justice, where those provisions are in place to protect the indigenous minorities – in the case of the Carinthian Slovenians, the Slovenians in the Styria and the Croats in the Burgenland – so as to ensure the survival of these minorities, their language, their culture and their peculiarity. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] For minorities there are – that sounds anachronistic now, but it still applies – protective powers. Nowadays, it sounds really strange when you say that in Austria someone needs foreign protective powers. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we minority members need foreign protection powers, because the state of Austria cannot rely on minority members for their rights. That's the sad truth! So much for me, as a national representative, to have to say this, as a minority member, I would like you to hear every day that you also experience physically that right in Austria is broken every day, from the Federal Chancellor down to the head of the state in Carinthia. This action with the disassembly of a bilingual town panel in Carinthia is truly the bottom of the barrel. That is why the Greens have resorted to a parliamentary means, which is truly not everyday. I really can't remember that in recent years applications have been submitted here, in which the Federal Government has been asked to consider whether a so-called ministerial loan – this is now the synonym for the charge against a national captain who has to execute federal law. Parliament cannot do more than ask or ask the Federal Government to do so, because only the Federal Government has been granted this right from the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that an examination of this question on 6. December 2005 can be seen in a different light than in usual years, for December 2005 is marked not only by the fact that it practically interprets the year of commemorative and commemorative memory, but also by the fact that in a few days, i.e. on 13 December 2005. December, the fourth anniversary – the term “birth day” is good in this case, better is “memorial day”, for there is truly this term appropriate – the knowledge of the Constitutional Court is. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This is a recognition that goes far beyond that of Vellach/Bela, because the bilingual term “Vellach – Bela” has a lukewarm legal basis beyond the state treaty of Vienna and its immediate validity, namely a law that has been adopted here in the House, namely the People's Group Act. With all its shortcomings, which I have been criticising here for a very long time – but not only me, but also many others – it is law and law that applies in Austria and that all have to be observed. We live – thank God, I can only say there – in a republic where the laws apply to national leaders, so also to a country captain who belongs to the former Freeman, now oranged party or the Free-Oranged Party of Carinthia. But it is not at all clear which party it is, whether it is the Freedom Carinthias, who are actually no longer liberals, but orange. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's quite clear!]] This wordplay shows that all that is being done is camouflage. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's not that easy with the greens either!]] The spirit behind the politics that is being made there has a history that continues to be like a blue thread, namely the history of disregard for minority rights, the exaggeration of minority rights. This is a story, where we repeatedly point to those points where legitimate members of minorities do nothing but help their right to break through, where they also serve the Supreme Courts, where those members of minorities who are at risk of a great deal, including the damage to their public reputation, by putting themselves in the service of the case, are also subject to animosities where those members of minorities are constantly thrown into the dirt, where they are constantly tried by the special party of the Carinthian head of state – that is probably the best definition, for it is the party of the Carinthian head of state – to bring their rights. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The head of state Haider is doing more for minorities than anyone else!]] We don't just want this sad and for Austria like that – what should I call it? – put an end to disgraceful action by proposing that the Federal Government – which is not present now; [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Mr President, with these words I conclude my remarks – which I really ask to meet our demands in the sense of the worthy commemoration of the State Treaty and the year 1945. Give the Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity at last to do what he has long promised to do: solve the question of the placeboard!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15565	Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer has now come to speak. Your speaking time is like that of all other speakers 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15586	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The ÖVP will not accept this request, which I am going to justify subsequently. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] [[Oh-noise with the greens]] With great surprise – although it was less a surprise, because I now know Mrs. Stoisits, rather than a certain amazement – I am aware that Mrs. Stoisits on a subject which we believe is a very sensitive, important issue, also a subject on which one is so far that one is talking and dealing well with one another, obviously has found a very different language, a very martial language. She claimed there were storms again, and so on. Mrs Colleague, I was actually of the opinion that we have overcome this kind of language on this very sensitive issue. In any case, I would like to continue to do so. I would like to remind you that this Federal Government has held six consensual conferences on this issue. This year of commemoration has gone a lot further on the question of the town boards. It was a declared goal of the government to find a way, together with the population living there – by the way, it is mentioned that the Carinthian Social Democrats have always been here – in a climate of mutual tolerance and understanding. It is precisely this procedure that is appropriate in a year of thought. And we will certainly not proceed with this procedure this year and with this request. This is the right way. There were concrete ideas. If you don't know, Mr. Ollinger: Other bilingual town boards have been set up. [[Abg. Oils: Three or four!]] You don't seem to know that. [[Abg. Oils: There were probably two!]] A lot has already been done, and more will be done. We will continue to talk to each other in the future. We will not join this oil-in-fire casting because we want a permanent solution, and a permanent solution is only possible with all those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15648	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15669	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Gabitzer, you are right to say that this is a sensitive and important issue. [[Abg. Neudeck: Then why do you talk about it?]] However, I have to say with regret – and this shows the empty government bank – how little important this federal government is for Carinthia and, ultimately, for Austria, this very important question that has been coming for 50 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you already know the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Colleague? Read the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Read the Rules of Procedure!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In all the seriousness it is for me to note, Mrs. Gabitzer, that it is simply unbearable that Landesführer Haider was in front of the camera just a few years ago – I emphasize: Motorway signs – near Fürnitz with direction sign Laibach/Ljubljana has disassembled. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You are in a coalition with us! It's unbearable!]] It is unbearable in what political unculture Haider has accused the Constitutional Court of Justice and has overcome its findings, not just one. It is unbearable that in the presence of the Federal Chancellor, Haider reveals bilingual town panels, travels to Vienna and explains the next day: As long as I am head of state, there will be no other bilingual town boards! – Then, when this happened in Carinthia, I was standing here and I said: This revelation is an unworthy game!, and the mayor there has asked not to do away with it because there is nothing to celebrate in the revelation of a town panel. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you know what your Ambrozy said at this conference? I hope you know!]] It is unbearable – and above all the people in Carinthia and Austria have not deserved it – as with the question of the town boards emotions and hostilities are still being awakened in 2005 instead of putting themselves together of responsibility and creating awareness in Carinthia and also throughout Austria that the task of fulfilling Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty is to be fulfilled in 2005. [[Abg. Scheibner: You blocked this in this consensus conference! Your representative!]] This would not be difficult, ladies and gentlemen from the BZÖ and the EIA, especially because the framework conditions have changed: Slovenia is a member of the European Union, and economic and cultural cooperation with Slovenia is working well. What we need is a rework of our own history in Carinthia. What we need is the will to create awareness that multilingualism, that bilinguality is a privilege that cultural diversity is a privilege. What we need is the will to create awareness of the fact that bilingualism, that is, two native and mother and father tongues, is an opportunity for the present and for the future. What Carinthia and what Austria also needs are politicians who are willing to solve this issue with sensitivity and consequence for 50 years. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Do you speak against yourself?]] This is the commitment of SPÖ at the national level and at the federal level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, because the implementation of local knowledge is within the scope of the road traffic regulations, this means that there is no competence of the Federal Government in this question and in this resolution concerning the state of play from our point of view and from the point of view of our constitutional experts. That – and only that! – is the only reason why the SPÖ cannot join this resolution of the Green Group. But the SPÖ reminds Mr Bundeskanzler to adopt, in his responsibility, the corresponding regulation, which has been pending for years. It should also be allowed to dissuade the willingness of Mr. Federal Chancellor or to demand from him that he conduct an informed coalition discussion with his Federal Coalition Partner, the BZÖ and the current Carinthian head of state Jörg Haider on this issue of political culture, the implementation of the provision of Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty, and not exclude this question from the joint government partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15803	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15825	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Trunk, I think the only one of which you understand even less than the local boards is the Rules of Procedure, because I do not know what we need a member of the government for that. We are now in a debate on time-limits – and the Members of the House and no members of the government still decide on this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This topic sensitizes Carinthia for years, it's not 50 years, but it's 30 years, and there's, like I mean, a strong polarization on both sides. There is a strong polarization on the part of the Home Associations, and there is a strong polarization on the part of the Slovenian representatives, and I am neither the one nor the other view: neither the idea of tearing down local boards nor the idea of setting up any or all. That's the wrong way! We're going to Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen, there's another way. We are going the way of consensus in Carinthia on this issue, and I am convinced that this consensus is a good one, for otherwise not all political parties in the Carinthian Landtag would seek consensus. Mrs Trunk can only vote out of here because she is not anchored in a Carinthian party, because the Carinthian Social Democrats are going a completely different way. The Social Democrats in Carinthia are there for a consensus, they meet at the round table. Mr. Dr. It was Ambrozy who for many years demanded that there be no bilingual town boards without the consent of SPÖ mayors in the district of Volksmarkt. In other words, there is a very strong demand for the participation of local politicians. I would remind you that a successful conclusion at the Consens Conference failed because Mr. Dr. Ambrozy said he would agree only if everyone agreed. That means he didn't have the nerves to be there himself. That is why I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate is set up from the outside, because we are doing a lot for the Slovenian minority. [[Call the Greens.]] Set up from the outside! I'm still talking about it. – I am not allowed to say that nothing for the minorities is happening in Carinthia. That's just not true! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's not what anyone says! Only: You shall set up these tablets!]] We have more bilingual schools than we should or should have. We have more bilingual kindergartens than we should have. We have used voting donations for Slovenian minorities. We introduced a round table. Dr. Haider has already established a People's Group Bureau in 1990, in his first term of office as head of state. We have adopted our own television and radio programme for the Slovenian minority with this Federal Government. So there is a radio station of its own for the Slovenian minority. We have gone away from the half hour program that there has been among the red majority, and have made our own transmitter for the Slovenians in Carinthia. So there is a radio station of its own that broadcasts Slovenian programme. We don't need to let anything go off the outside. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you quite honestly: I am actually disappointed that there is a permanent attempt to carry this conflict to Carinthia. In Carinthia there is no such conflict! Mr Oellinger, you can laugh quietly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I repeat: In Carinthia, there is no such conflict! Do you know what your own colleague Holub said in the Carinthian Landtag? – He would be satisfied with seven more town boards. That was the demand of Mr. Landesprecher of the Greens in Carinthia. [[Abg. Oillinger: You don't even bring that together!]] He said he wanted to set up seven town boards. This is the demand package of the Greens! The SPÖ says: Not without the consent of the SPÖ mayors! We say: Not over the head of the population! We will not be forced into this debate from the outside. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In conclusion, I would like to say to this discussion, which is trying to force us from outside in Carinthia, that: My brother, his sign Klubobmann in the Carinthian Landtag, got 14 days ago – watch out now! – a letter from the European Commission. [[Abg. Brosz: He broke that up right now!]] – Mr Brosz, your calls belong to where you sit, in the third row. So my brother received a letter from the European Commission, where he was questioned in the context of a study dealing with European conflicts. This study also examined the conflict of the Slovenian minority in Carinthia – and in the same breath other areas of conflict are also referred to, with which it is equated: That's called the Northern Ireland conflict. That's what the Cyprus problem is called. This is called the Kosovo problem and the Basque Country problem area. Ladies and gentlemen, now I really ask you: Is there any terrorist attacks on us? Is there anything similar to the Northern Ireland conflict? Do we have conditions in Austria as in Kosovo? Or is there a discussion being held from the outside in Carinthia, which we do not deserve? – The Carinthians do not deserve this discussion, and we will not let it! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Who are the Carinthians?]] All Carinthia! - You're a Viennese, I'm a Carinthian! Finally, I would like to say the following: As part of the EU sanctions against Austria, the “three Weisen” Martti Ahtisaari, Jochen Frowein and Marcelino Oreja came to Carinthia. Do you know what these “three wise ones ” have said? Mr Posch, you know exactly! – The “three wise ones” have literally said: Minority policy Carinthia is exemplary, and its level is far above that of the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15930	This debate is closed by Mr Oellinger. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e15952	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, you have said that the question of the placeboard is a sensitive issue. I dispute this and confirm it. I therefore challenge this, ladies and gentlemen, because this question concerns the implementation of a State Treaty, which was decided and sealed 50 years ago with the vote of Austria and which has not been fulfilled for 50 years. It's so simple and simple! I therefore dispute this because the Constitutional Court has not only made clear and has also made statements on this matter. No matter which Constitutional Court Presidents They all say the same thing: Here's the right thing to do! You're breaking right here! It's been 50 years. So you're wrong: This is not a sensitive issue. On the other hand, I also confirm this, because of course it is sensitive if law is still not implemented after 50 years. It is so simple and touching! For 50 years, the authorities in the Republic are moving each other to the ball: Who is actually responsible for the enforcement of the State Treaty? - No one wants to be responsible! The Federal Chancellor says that is the head of state in Carinthia, the head of state in Carinthia, says that this is actually the Federal Chancellor. There is nothing to help, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, if you come with a rather sophistical interpretation and say: The Federal Chancellor is not responsible for the road transport regulations, so we cannot agree to a deadline. – I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Socialist Group, but also of the government parties: The Federal Chancellor is responsible for the State Treaty, and for compliance with the State Treaty, even if it concerns road traffic regulations! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To be so simple and to say that no one is responsible for neither the Carinthian head of state nor the Federal Chancellor, the Constitutional Court may take decisions, but no one is responsible for the implementation, it is not so easy! I'll tell you one thing: Of course, it is not only about the implementation of Article 7 of the State Treaty, but also about a sourced one, one could say, pitiful, but in all cases also law-breaking policy, which has been in operation here for decades. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great!]] Is the State Treaty to be implemented? Yes or no? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No! That's not true!]] No, it's not, it's not gonna be implemented?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: They say the untruth!]] You'd have to, and you know, set up a lot more placeboards than you actually do. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would expect, ladies and gentlemen, also from the President of the National Council of this Republic, who is currently presiding and who was a very committed lawyer for a minority, namely for the German-speaking minority in Tyrol, to declare, in addition to the President of the Constitutional Court, that: Once we've got to end! You can organise consensus conferences, as many as you want, it cannot be waited for until the last, and in this case the last of the armed forces, is still agreed that these local panels should be set up. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Whom you want to abolish!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is the one you want to abolish!]] It really can't be, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, that a right-wing extreme organization such as the Defense League, which does not want to comply with the State Treaty, simply influences or prevents the development in a federal country! Nor can it be that Mr. Landeshuptmann in Carinthia can make it possible to replace the bilingual directions on the motorways with one-lingual ones. That is absurd, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What you're saying is absurd!]] This certainly has nothing to do with breaking the law, but it shows the spirit of the children of the Lord's captain and obviously some others in this republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is absurd, ladies and gentlemen, in a Europe that has committed itself to multilingualism to abolish bilingual directions! If you were to drive to Slovenia, Mr Scheuch, you would notice that the radio is multilingual, including German. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Ask the three wise men!]] I would also have liked you to work for this, Mr Scheuch – as for the town boards.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16101	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Members. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 732/A (E) by Mr Mag. Teresija Stoisitsa Term of office until 20. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a deadline to be approved. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mrs Trunk does not even agree!]] – This is the minority and therefore rejected. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16143	As has already been announced, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members have the power to do so. Ulrike Lunacek, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the establishment of an investigative committee on illegal trade in Austrian sightings and years of control failure by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Interior and called for a debate on this request. Members of Parliament Dr. Josef Cap, Dr. Hlavac, colleagues and colleagues have also been appointed in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the establishment of a committee of inquiry on illegal trade with regard to sight marks, and there is also the request made by five Members to hold a debate on this request. Since the subject-matter of both applications for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is similar, I will act in agreement with the applicants in the sense of a practice practiced in these cases, namely that both applications are first justified – each for 10 minutes – and the debate on this will be carried out under one. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and both votes shall take place after completion of the agenda. On the other hand, are objections raised? – That is not the case, so we can proceed in this way. [[17:45:48]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16183	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 5 to 7 of the agenda. Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Your welcome time is 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16207	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In this Act, a further step is being taken for lawyers, notaries and civil technicians to force information and communication technology through the e-trafficking of electronic communications. There will be an electronic professional signature in the future. In addition, civil engineers will also be able to use an electronic certification signature for the notaries, which they can use, in particular, for the works they carry out within their powers, for the production of public documents. Furthermore, there will also be electronic Urkundsarchivs for these high-quality activities. In this respect, there is a special feature for civil engineers, because a document they produce electronically becomes public only when it receives an archival signature. Example: When sharing plans are drawn up, which represents a sovereign task of civil engineers, they must be stored in this archive together with the supplements, for example with the certificate of a survey office. Only with the archive signature can they be forwarded to the base book. In addition, these archives have the great advantage that the technical requirements for this system are also guaranteed, i.e. that these electronic digital data will continue to be legible in the future. This means that in the future, security and transparency will be ensured for electronic traffic, which will also meet the high requirements for the activities of lawyers, notaries and civil engineers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16247	Mr Praßl is now speaking for 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16268	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too may deal with the Professional Law Amendment Act for civil technicians, notaries and lawyers. Since the introduction of the Signature Act, there has been a significant boost to the sustainable promotion of confidence in electronic communications. This draft legal amendment law for notaries, lawyers and civil technicians, which has been introduced into the Council of Ministers, aims at providing broad support for electronic commerce. This will be made possible, inter alia, by the introduction of an electronic professional signature for the above professions. In future, they will also be able to submit, in the course of their professional activity, documents with the legal effects of a separate signature electronically. In addition, notaries and civil engineers should be able to have a special electronic certification signature, which will open up to them the possibility of electronic signatures for the production of public documents in the high-level field of their activity. In the case of electronic documents, the question of their permanent and safe storage and availability is inevitably also raised. Ladies and gentlemen! In future, it will be possible – in particular in the field of book and book of companies – under certain conditions to transmit electronically to the Court of First Instance in the original supplementation. The purpose of this proposal is to achieve significant improvements and reliefs in this area. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This will further increase paperless communication with the courts and serve the professions concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16313	Mr Puswald is now speaking for three minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16345	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Arbitration Act 2006 introduces a genuine arbitration for the first time and thus temporarily excludes the proper jurisdiction, as it were, of course; however, with the possibility of calling the ordinary courts then if this is necessary in the interest of the acceleration of proceedings, i.e. if a rapid settlement of the arbitration procedure is not expected and the inadmissibility of the legal course has been applied in time. Other advantages, such as the protection of consumers and workers, which is not affected by this law, have already been highlighted. Overall, I can say that we can accept this bill, even if we, Mrs. Federal Minister Gastinger, have already discussed in the committee that it is essential in the interest of the process acceleration that... – Mr. Großruck, I thank you very much! [[Abg. Großruck: That was your best speech so far!]] Your praise is particularly flattering to me – and this without four-liners. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Neudeck.]] However, in the interests of the speeding-up of proceedings, Mrs Federal Minister, we have already mentioned this in the Committee on Justice, it is absolutely necessary to resolve the cost issue, because it is precisely the unexplained question of costs relating to arbitration that often leads to the initiation of such proceedings being rejected or, after long in vain, to recall the proper jurisdiction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Mrs Partik-Pablé, as you have referred to the accelerated court proceedings: It is up to your group and the other government party to take proper precautions. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who?]] Your in-death-saving attempts, as far as justice is concerned, are no longer tolerable! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Unfortunately!]] To the extent that justice and its proper rapid settlement are to the fullest extent restricted, the judiciary will be limited! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: At your time it has already...!]] So I can only appeal to you once again: Release more budget resources, in your opinion, to take the “premise” that it is under-dated and therefore not able to work quickly enough! [[New call of the abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Mrs Partik-Pablé, as you are still throwing this up, I would like to tell you one thing: As a former judge, it is not good for you to question the “competence” – in order to use a jargon common to you – of the attorney’s office as regards the certifications! Anyone who makes a lawyer's examination and is registered as a lawyer is able to recognize a photo identification as such, to reconcile the photo with the one before it, and then to certify the signature! You can be assured, Mrs Partik-Pablé: Your objection is completely empty and clearly purely political and highly personal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Houselords have already died...!]] – Mr President, this is another issue. The last thing I wanted to put Mrs Stoisits on the way: Your objection, too, that the lawyers would always earn more than that, is unjust! Apart from the fact that the lawyer's rate has not been adjusted to the inflation rate for years, I can tell you: You only need to look at the Fees Act in order to be able to see that, for example, complaints or written sentences are filed in electronic commerce, so that your claim that the lawyers “cash more” despite reliefs is simply incorrect and therefore completely empty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16465	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. 2 minutes you wish to talk to us. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16486	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puswald, lawyers do not need to raise the rate in the course of this inflation; they speak more slowly, then there is more fees. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Colleague Neudeck is placed on unqualified jokes!]] You already have a way to get to your honor. “Light in the dark”, as colleague Grossruck said, we do not need to understand. Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting of the Committee on Justice, there has been a unanimous vote on the agenda items 5, 6 and 7 which are currently under discussion – and I believe that there will be consensus here in plenary. It was also agreed that we have taken home-law issues from the Committee's agenda, because it is unfortunately not possible to get a majority in this House, as SPÖ and ÖVP unfortunately do not wish to agree to an audit of non-profit housing cooperatives by the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's not true!]] – That is very true, Mr Commissioner. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's not how it is! ...!]] Yes, yes, there is no honor for this teaching now! Why don't you take a look at it in your group – and then we'll talk about it! Let us take a look at your group, at least in the part that is talking to you, and then we will talk about the whole subject again. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's completely absurd!]] After Christmas, we will provide weekly reasons why such an audit by the Court of Auditors is absolutely necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The FPÖ government party is fighting, and we have to do it!]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16577	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Gastinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16598	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank all of you, because, as I have been able to learn from the previous speeches, all three legislative projects now under discussion will be passed by the National Council unanimously. I would like to thank the National Council for the fact that these arbitration procedures will be in place in Austria in the future and that we will certainly be able to position ourselves very well worldwide. The cost question was raised by Mr Puswald. I would like to point out that the question of the cost of arbitration is always a matter of the agreement between the parties, but we can certainly consider at least whether there are opportunities to intervene there. Mrs Partik-Pablé has mentioned several times, including in the Committee, the need for procedural accelerations, in particular in the field of civil law. This is also very important to me personally, but at this point I would like to point out that the situation in Austria is really excellent in the area of justice. In the case of a global In comparison, we can see that we are still very good at relation with those in many other countries as regards the duration of the procedure. The average duration of the procedure in the first instance is about eight months, and we certainly do not need to hide an international comparison. I am therefore rightly proud of Austrian justice and its achievements. [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] There will also be substantial innovations to what the 2006 Professional Law Amendment Act is about, things that have already been addressed by previous speakers. I see the Professional Law Amendment Act as a very important aspect with regard to more services for our citizens, because it will bring about timely procedures and will increasingly facilitate electronic commerce in Austria. – So this bill is also a very important reform in the right direction. In addition to the 2006 Rules of Procedure and Insolvency, these include some very significant improvements, measures which are of particular importance to the Austrian economy in particular. An example of this is the fact that, when a forced equalisation is adopted by streamlining the various procedural steps, the legal basis for bringing the bankruptcy proceedings to an end as quickly as possible is established, where many problems have been encountered in practice so far. This bill has enabled us to create a reasonable regulation for this area as well. – Thank you for your approval and also thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16649	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. She wishes to speak for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16671	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to refer you to the Court Fee Act. As early as the beginning of 2002, the Court of First Instance has already experienced a fundamental reorganisation through the entry into force of the Euro-judgment fees novelle. As a result of the ongoing modernisation in the judicial system, revisions in court fees were needed again. The possibility of transmitting documents to the courts electronically, as well as the electronic consultation of the collection of documents of the basic book, naturally accelerated this process. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] A judicial administrative fee will now be introduced which corresponds to the one used to query the company's collection of documents. The entry fee for landbook and company book entries has been reduced. 7 € are required in the case of electronic document transfer. This gives an important impetus to the electronicisation of traffic between the parties and the Court of First Instance in order to promote the creation of an electronic document collection as quickly as possible. Another essential point of this legislative amendment concerns the change in the rate of fees for a common divorce. This was considered for a long time, and it was concluded that the comparative fee differs whether the divorce agreement provides for the basis or transfer of book-based rights. If so, a higher fee is justified than according to the previous; if no, the agreement fee is reduced in relation to the current legal situation. In the case of an application filed during an ongoing divorce dispute, the current double burden is avoided by attacking the flat rate fee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16706	Next item is the report by Mr Sieber. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16727	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! My remarks also refer to the Novelle 2006 Court of Justice and Insolvency Law. In the field of the Law on Court Fees, this amendment is intended in particular to create adjustments for the electronic transmission of documents to courts or for the electronic consultation of documents from the collection of documents of the ground book. In addition, this section establishes a fairer tariff system for common divorces. A reduction in the input fee is intended to provide an incentive to submit electronic documents. [[Abg. Mandak: This is the same thing that Anna Hellerer said!]] A new judicial administration fee will be created for the electronic consultation of documents from the collection of documents of the basic book. [[Abg. Mandak: This is the same text!]] In the area of mutual divorce, the comparative fee shall be increased in the event that the divorce agreement establishes or transfers the rights of the persons in the book. If this is not the case, the comparison fees will be reduced. Insolvency legislation is intended to establish arrangements allowing the basis for the rapid withdrawal of bankruptcy. In this sense, the separation between the confirmation of compensation and the abolition of bankruptcy is eliminated. In order to allow for this concentration, a number of procedural measures are provided to ensure that creditor interests are not adversely affected. High house! A good template – we gladly agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16778	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote. I will vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the arbitration procedure in the civil procedural order and the rule of law, the Introductory Act on Civil Procedure, the Labour and Social Court Law, the Court Organisation Act and the Richterdienstsgesetz, together with the title and receipt in 1236 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft Act on the Amendment of Vocational Law for Notaries, Lawyers and Civil Technicians in 2006 together with the title and receipt in 1169 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law on the Novelle Courts and Insolvency Law 2006 together with the title and receipt in 1168 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:05:16]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (1069 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a collecting company law in 2005 and amending the Copyright Act and the KommeAustria Act (Recovery Company Change Act 2005 – VerwGeschräg 2005) (1239 d.B.) 9. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on the draft federal law amending the Copyright Law (Novelle 2005 - UrhG-Nov 2005) (1240 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16886	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. First of all, Mr. Dr. Jarolim. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16916	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neudeck, just so that there is no myth formation here – tell him, please – why this rental rights package is not being negotiated here today: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He's not here! I'll tell him!]] In particular, we have been surprised that before the last debate in the Justice Committee, Mr Fekter and Mr Neudeck have reported in a rather very emotional state that there is no agreement in the government groups – admittedly, it is rather rare for us to communicate in such a fierce way in the estimated committee – and that we should therefore agree that the agenda will be corrected on these two points. We would have liked to have done so, because we would have voted in part for what has been discussed there, but we would also like to make a great deal of criticism. You shouldn't be here now, colleague Neudeck – he's back among us – as if the opposition were due to the fact that this matter is not being treated. [[Abg. Neudeck: I was there all the time!]] You already have to deal with your government partner. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the laws now in place are God's in such a way that we cannot agree, although we would have liked to do so because this would have provided the opportunity to ensure a really efficient step towards the creation of the artists in Austria. It is perfectly clear to us that both materials are at the interface and thus also in the conflict of interests of the artists, the users, the industry, consumers and that it is not easy to find a compromise here. Mrs Fekter! The numerous protests of the actors have shown that even the audience has not been concealed, which is the real goal of this novel. The fact that one has defined the artists as the only real losers next to the consumers is a bit unfortunate. I mean, in Austria – and that on the eve of the presidency – we deserved another law, including the artists; a law that would have promoted the art scene, and not such a harsh approach. In this sense, we have tabled an amendment, Mrs Colleague – just so that you can read it there – which first deals with social and cultural institutions. What do I mean by that? – There is a provision in the § 13 Exploitation Company Change Act which provides for a social cultural institution – that has been so until now – where, however, there is a massive deterioration due to the novelties you have proposed. What's this about? – It is about the fact that artists, young artists and those in need of society receive a better job by means of a fund covered by revenue from empty-case payments. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Take this away from the actors!]] On the one hand, you have made a deterioration here, so that the majority is now less than 50 percent or 50 percent, on the other hand, you have not included the usual cable remuneration in the matter throughout Europe, which – for example, a quarter of the cable remuneration – would have been an efficient improvement. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Take this away from the actors, say that loud!]] I don't know why you didn't do that, the fact is that the artists are suffering and that a possibility was not used here. The transparency provisions that we have required, namely that there should be a publication of those invoices or models of calculation, which are relevant to the artists who receive their flat-rate remuneration, have not been created either. The subcontracting position for the film-makers has been solved in a rather embarrassing way, namely that there must be consents here that create more or less dependence. That is the opposite of what they wanted. We will therefore not vote with regret, but not with regret, because we do not agree, but because the materials are not regulated as they would correspond to the Austrian culture country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e16996	The amendment has just been tabled in writing by Mr Jarolim, colleagues, is sufficiently supported, has been explained in his key points and will be submitted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure have been distributed to Members and are therefore also consulted. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's distributed!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17120	Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17142	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I'm talking about copyright law novelle. In 1996, the legislator for “medium-old” films established a provision granting film owners a right to participate. Consciously, the legislator did not expand this to “new ” films at the time, but only to the“ middle ages. ” At that time, this was a transitional provision between the old legal situation and the new legislation, which was designed in the course of a directive transposition. The Supreme Court, however, has estimated a gap in the law in a sharp misevaluation of the will of the legislator and, in analogy, has extended this provision to “new” films. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is an understatement...! Absolutely absurd!]] This judgment was classified by the film producers as a serious misjudgment, and on the other hand, film owners wanted to extend their claims and film actors, who are not undisputed authors, to have their own right of participation. Therefore, as legislators, we have now decided to include the OGH judgment on cable forwarding pro futuro in the law and to grant the film owners a right to participate, but not the work participants; a claim for cable fees, for new films that will be filmed from 2006. For example, a retroactive regime for films from 1996 to 2005 was deliberately not created in order not to disturb the calculations of productions, as this would mean an intervention in existing rights. These films, i.e. those before 2006, are subject to § 38 Copyright Law in conjunction with the Novelle 1996. We also do not consciously change the legislation of the Novelle 1996 for “mid-old” films. We make it clear that the cessio legis applies to “old”, “mid-old” and “new” films. That is, the film manufacturer acquires his rights by law and not by contract with the authors. For the actors as workers, we have granted a new remuneration claim to the empty-case remuneration. – Mr Jarolim, your amendment would immediately shorten these claims to the actors, so we are not for that. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is not at all true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's not true! You just don't understand!]] Based on the cessio legis, the recycling rights shall be granted to the manufacturer and in the future he shall share his remuneration claims from the emptiness allowance with the workers. It is legally undisputed that film actors are not authors but work participants. The allegations in various media, that actors had received payments from the cable fee for many years, I consider extremely worrying, because only film owners are entitled to participate in this fee, but not the actors and work participants. Should the collecting company VDFS have actually paid cable fees to individual actors unlawfully, this would be a case for the prosecutor, because the collecting society should not distribute this money according to the opinion, but must adhere strictly to the law. We want to create more clarity, greater legal certainty, especially for the artists against the arbitrariness of collecting societies, with the two new laws, namely the collecting company change law and the copyright law Novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17205	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Zinggl. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17226	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. One of the two amendments to the debate, namely the bill amending the collecting society law, was urgently necessary. I believe that it actually brings some improvements, in particular with regard to the control of collecting societies, but also with regard to the copyright system, which is now also intended to simplify disputes between collecting societies. This is a step forward, because with this special matter, the ordinary courts that have been able to operate there would certainly have been overwhelmed. We will therefore be happy to agree to this law, although there would of course have been further possibilities for improvement, as Mr Jarolim has already indicated or said. Thus, in the sense of the empty-case levy, it has been failed to tax the revenues from the cable remuneration by a few percent. There would have been some million euros to obtain additional revenues, for example, I say now that artists' social security could have been used. Overall, however, innovation is clearly a step forward, so we agree. It is quite different, however, when it comes to amending the copyright law. The Copyright Act should actually strengthen and protect the rights of authors, but this, ladies and gentlemen, is not happening with this innovation. I think it is just an implementation of the law of succession, as the EU has prescribed – a kind of law. minimum service according to requirements. This is clearly the value of the works of art from which the law enters into force at all. The minimum value of €3 000 is rarely achieved by a work of art produced by a young artist or a young artist today. And only when such a work can be sold again via gallerists does this right of consequence come into force, with one word: very rarely, and if, then, only with the establishments, which have little need anyway. Even with the photographs, €3 000 cannot be reached. So with one word: Here, the EU directives were minimally in line with this maximum value-added law, i.e. with this maximum value threshold. In Europe, such a threshold of €3,000 is even unique. We have a pioneering role to play in this. There are also two other points that we are not right in this copyright law. Originally, in the ministerial draft, for example, participations of film owners were planned to be 50 percent in cable remuneration, which has now been reduced to 33 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] Our request in the Committee has not been justified. The participation of the authors in earnings for extension of the protection period, which has now been eliminated in Austrian law since 1933, has remained completely unfounded. So with one word: The entire copyright rules, which should actually serve the authors and bring improvements to them, have not been implemented. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you will be able to recover and agree to these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17336	The amendment that Mr Zinggl has just tabled is sufficiently supported, has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17445	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17466	Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ obviously did not recognise the value of collecting company rights because it would not agree. Mr Zinggl has already said that there will be significant improvements. That is right, because we have achieved a major change. Within the past 70 years, since the law was in force, a number of attempts have been made to make a necessary innovation, but these attempts have always failed. Now, after one and a half years of work, it has been possible to make substantial improvements. First of all, there is a new state supervision: Instead of the 24 state commissioners, there is now a supervisory authority with two lawyers. Instead of the arbitration board and the arbitration commission, which was otherwise unconstitutional, there is now a new Copyright Senate with two judges. The SPÖ probably does not agree because the Chamber of Workers is no longer present in this body. The Chamber of Commerce is also no longer represented. And that's good, too, because now these associations of interest will not take anyone to the band, but independent judges will decide. In addition, there is a friendly dispute resolution committee in advance, so that it is possible to compensate for irregularities or resolve disputes before. Furthermore, the market is streamlined because the merger of collecting societies is forced. At present, there are twelve collecting societies in such a small country as Austria, which are partly in the hair of each other, and there will be a cleansing. In addition, we have made legal amendments: Instead of four laws, there is now only one, namely collecting company law 2006, so that there is better legal clarity in this respect too. As a result, I would just like to take a brief look at the objections of Mr Zinggl: They complain that the value must be €3 000 in order for the right to follow. Deputies! First of all, we didn't want the right of successor at all. We were not enthusiastic about the right of succession and therefore made a minimal implementation. There were also concerns that if the value is set too high, the galleries will no longer buy the works of art, but only take them into the Commission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] And if the galleries take the works of art into commission, then the artists have nothing at all. That was why we accepted the amount of €3,000. A few more words about the Copyright Act: Our concern was to put the film actors better. Mr Jarolim! Today, they reject the Copyright Act because it is alleged that too little is done for the film actors: As early as 1993, MEPs Mothers and in 1997 Members Krüger and Ofner made a request – we were in opposition at the time – to achieve a better creation of the film actors. At that time, these applications were rejected, but today we finally insist that the film actors are better thought about financially. So you would actually have all the reason that you agreed to today, you were already confronted with it at the time! However, this involvement of the film actors is not so easy to fasten, because only the cable fee can be divided, and when the cable fee is paid, the film actors are not included because they are not authors. This is really a very complicated matter. I have repeatedly said during the consultation with the law that the ASVG is nothing against the Copyright Law. You don't know what groups are behind it, which you don't realize at all at first, but only because of the many inputs you get, and everyone wants to participate in the cake. – So this is really a very complicated matter. Finally, we have succeeded in creating an alternative so that the film actors are also involved, namely with the empty cassette remuneration, and thus the long-awaited desire of the film actors is quite satisfied. Mr Jarolim, once again you say something wrong if you say that the fund for the needy artists is reduced by this. That's just not true! In the case of empty-case remuneration, the financial resources go into a pot. 50 percent still receive the needy artists, and the other part is divided, and there are the film actors with it now. So in this matter, where there are so many divergent interests, do not continue to be dissatisfied! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] We hope that we have now found some compromises with this law, so that the floods now have an end and have some satisfaction. I believe that a very good compromise has been reached.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17544	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17566	Ladies and gentlemen! If this afternoon some Members mentioned that they are proud of your course, I would say: Let us take a look at this course from our point of view! It is also a course in the bill that we are now discussing, which reduces the influence of the social partners and, as I would like to say, also sets foot on consumer rights. So far, all the discussionees have only talked about the advantages of the authors and artists. Mrs. Partik-Pablé! We are well aware of the value of this law, but this collecting society law not only affects the interests of the authors and the interests of those entrepreneurs who act as users, but also, to a small extent, the interests of consumers. But in your policy, you are always just putting business interests in the foreground, but consumers in particular need protection! I explain this by a simple example: Throughout Europe and also in Austria, the digital rights of users have not been clarified. We all have been legally downloading a song on the PC many times, but we still get into the situation, even with purchased CDs, that it is not possible to play music through the copy protection. The industry invests a lot of money and explains to us every day what we cannot do. But there is no indication as to how we can use what we pay for accordingly. There are also enough tests from the Chamber of Workers: In 25 percent of cases it didn't work when you tried to play music with the test devices. Mrs. Federal Minister! With this in mind, we are called upon to adopt a law on this subject at national level. It would be high time to establish rules for the music industry at national and European level. But what are you doing? Instead of really strengthening consumer rights at last, this bill creates a copyright network that will be made up of three judges in the future. And the former conciliation body, which was also made up of representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers who have worked for the interests of consumers, is now gone. To that end, I say: I can give up on such a step that now restricts or excludes consumer participation rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17603	The next item is Mrs Felzmann's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17626	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it is very gratifying that the SPÖ has now apparently discovered its heart for the creative, for the artists and for the creative economy. [[Abg. Gaál: She's had it for decades!]] Wonderful! But it would be even more wonderful if you would go along and also help to implement a very, very sensible law matter here. You have already mentioned it: Quite clear recycling and authoring systems are of the utmost importance for the creatives, but of course not only for the creatives. The process is such that intellectual property, the idea is brought into products and services. These are marketed, sold and consumed. In this regard, we are talking about an entire value chain in our country, which is to be observed here. It is all the more important to examine the framework conditions for all those involved in this value-added process and to take a step in this direction with this law. The fact is that this law came into existence in 1936. It had to be modernised, as the entire economic structure has now changed, and all market participants are required to take a new path. In advance, a very constructive Committee meeting took place. They have also agreed to the Committee's position, so I am all the more surprised now that one or the other here is being questioned three more times. The Senate was addressed: We all know that the system, as it was before, did not work in such a way that everyone was really happy. The Senate is now becoming slimmer and more efficient, and I think that is also an important point. The law has pursued three basic objectives: Legal fragmentation should be eliminated, State supervision should be reorganised, and dispute resolution mechanisms should also be re-structured. And I think it has succeeded in achieving the formulated goal, namely to implement the OGH judgment on the one hand and to give something to the filmmakers on the other. On the other hand, what you have formulated here does not correspond to the facts. The fact is that now there was also a new access for actors who had not previously been available to this extent. I am convinced that today's legislative decision is a contribution to legal certainty and brings significant improvements to collecting societies. But it also brings improvements to the creatives that cannot be played out against each other, because the creatives do not always want to promote, but they want to succeed, and they are part of the economic process.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17661	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17682	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For our rejection of the novels on the copyright and collecting company law, there are very good reasons, because the submissions are insufficient, inadequate and inappropriate. They are therefore insufficient and inadequate in relation to the copyright law Novelle because they are the so-called follow-up law directive of the EU, which comes with 1. In January 2006, the author's need for protection will not be met in any way. You admit that openly, too. Mrs. Partik-Pablé said it here. And the explanations also state clearly that the negative attitude of the Austrian Federal Government must lead the draft to propose the implementation of the Directive at the lowest possible level of protection. The artist's community of interests criticizes that the draft reflects the inadequacy of the legislator. But I would think that's an artist's hostility. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Go!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Please go!]] This is particularly good to note that you are fully aware of the minimum selling price for which the EU Directive provides a maximum limit of €3 000. The new § 16b states that a visual artist will receive a share remuneration on sale only if the sale price is at least € 3 000 if his work continues to be sold after the first sale. And that is clearly too high! It has already been mentioned that the selling price of contemporary art is largely below this price, which means that most artists are then excluded from the right of succession. I do not understand why this value is so high! The amendment to a reduction of € 2 000, tabled here by Mr Zinggl, is a step that represents an improvement. This also distorts competition, because you believe that if you have the highest threshold, you can guarantee equal conditions of competition for artists across the EU? I don't think so. Finally, a comment on the procedure: ==References====External links== In October, the Commission issued an opinion on the matter. ==References== November was the end of the assessment period. All of a sudden, however, it is no longer possible for a government template to be presented here, because the law must be made with 1. In January 2006 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of However, they have known since 1. In January 2001 the Directive must be transposed. In these four years, however, nothing has happened, and now you are satisfied with a Husch-Fuch-Action, which the visual artists pass. The artist association, the largest interest group, has not even been invited to an opinion, but I think that probably has not been important to you either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17732	The next item is the speech by Mr Ledolter. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17754	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this innovation, a matter is being prepared that has not in itself been processed for decades and which leaves nothing to be desired of complexity. Now, in principle, the Schüssel Government has embarked on the process of developing reform and the need to adapt to the present situation, as well as on the issue of collecting societies and copyright, this government has remained true to this successful principle. The previous regulation of collecting societies was not very flexible and transparent and this law from 1936 was not really suitable to give all art and culture makers the necessary framework conditions. The amendment corrects this deficit, and I do not really understand why the Members of the Socialist Party do not make an attempt to speak so badly a matter that is in itself quite neat and modernly structured. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is: With the collecting societies, the composition of the commissions and the construction as a GesmbH instead as an association, the claim of the present is made sufficient. The copyright rules in the field of film ensure that all groups, actors, producers and authors come to their right. And it is against Mr Jarolim's ideas that the artists too are being won. Ladies and gentlemen, overall it is a good arrangement, an important step towards reorganising this difficult matter and a renewed success for this government in order to help all to their right.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17790	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which lays down a collecting company law 2005 and amends the copyright law and the KommAustria law in 1239 of the supplements. Mr Jarolim, Members of Parliament, tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment tabled and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall be voting separately on Rule I, § 13, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Jarolim, colleagues. I ask for an appropriate sign upon consent. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I, § 13, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of this to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article I, § 18 para. 1 Z 6 as amended by the additional amendment of Mr Jarolim, colleagues. I would ask those members of the House who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Article I, § 21 para. 5 as amended by Mr Jarolim, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who speak in favour of a similar sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the draft law on copyright law Novelle 2005 in 1240 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I(16)(b) and (38) and Article IV. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, it is rejected by it. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:44:47]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 583/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a federal law on an amnesty on the occasion of the 60th return of the day on which the independence of Austria was restored, the fiftieth return of the day on which the Austrian State Treaty was signed, and the tenth return of the day on which Austria joined the European Union (Amnesty 2005) (1241 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17929	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We therefore come to the debate. First of all, Mr Pendl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17960	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the history of the Second Republic, there have been twelve amnesty laws, the last in 1995, which were based on five similar requests from the parliamentary groups here in the House. I believe that it would be a good thing for all of us in the year of the Jubilees, in which we together celebrated 60 years of peace, 50 years of freedom and many more jubilees, especially in such a year to adopt an amnesty law. I mean, that would have been a gesture of humanity. It would certainly have been quite pragmatic for us next to this human gesture, Mrs. Federal Minister. Since we currently have over 9 000 inmates in our judicial institutions and are likely to be affected by the WB by the 170, we will be going to the new year with a resident who will again be around a few hundred more than a year ago. What this means for our judicial institutions and for the staff in these institutions, I think all insiders. I therefore think that if one looked at this point from humanity, it would have been time, even this year, to decide on this amnesty. It would certainly have done us well in our judicial institutions. Perhaps – but I don't think so, but maybe – there's another chance that you'll get rid of your opinion in the next few minutes. I think the discussion in the Committee has shown it: I do not think it is an approach to reject this for general prevention reasons. Let us try together to complete the year of the Jubilees with an amnesty law!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e17990	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Fekter. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18011	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! From today's point of view, the application for an amnesty of SPÖ and Greens is highly alarmed by the experience with the Amnesty 1995 rule of law. The 1995 Amnesty, which was unanimously adopted by Parliament at the time, has shown very negative effects. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's absurd!]] It is therefore not justified to introduce a similar amnesty in this commemorative year. Mr Jarolim, the Minister of Justice has made it clear in the Committee on Justice. Through the 1995 Amnesty, the offenders have received a legal claim, and the individual examination was no longer carried out: A claim for a fine, a decommissioning of the procedure and early dismissal. The offenders have made extensive use of it since 1995. Many proceedings have not been initiated at all or the prosecution has stopped, over 10,000 judgments have not been executed! Here, the legislator has suspended the decisions of the independent judicial system by a decision. With regard to the separation of power, this is most worrying by the rule of law! However, we have made the most negative experiences with § 3, the conditional forbearance, i.e. premature dismissal. According to the right of grace, according to which the individual case is examined, arrears are not eligible. However, with the Amnesty 1995 a large number of retreaters have been released in advance, because they have opted for their legal claim, and have already become criminal again, at a time when, without amnesty, they should have been in prison. That means that it is not justified to open the prison gates so generously! This does not correspond to the will of the population, it does not correspond to our will, and it is extremely problematic in terms of the sharing of power.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18058	Mrs Federal Minister Mag has spoken. Gastinger. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18079	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Fekter has already stated that I have made a very detailed statement in the Committee on Justice, which is the difference between the grace and the Amnesty Act, as it is now present here and we are discussing it. I should like to point out once again that, in the field of grace, the Federal President's act of sovereignty is a matter for the Minister of Justice on a proposal from the Minister of Justice. There is no right to grace here. Especially important in the field of grace is the fact that there is a strict case-by-case assessment and that the individual case is examined; in addition, there must also be a special basis for grace in the individual case. On the other hand, in the field of being of grace, we also have the opportunity to make a discharge of grace. This is the Christmas gift we make every year; this decree is outside this year too. In the field of grace there is therefore an annual Christmas grace, but it is in no way as extensive as the amnesty that has now been proposed. In contrast, in the area of amnesty, it is envisaged that certain benefits should be granted by a decision of the National Council, i.e. by a law, in general abstractly defined groups of rightbreakers. It is important – and this has been quite rightly explained by the honourable Member – that in the field of amnesty the beneficiaries have practically a enforceable legal claim and that the execution of the amnesty is due to the courts, whereas in the field of grace, it is carried out in agreement with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who takes the last decision on the individual case of grace. But here it is different, here it is the criminal courts. Our experiences with the amnesty benefits in the last 30 years were different. In 1975, the Amnesty provided for the benefits only in the lower criminal field and in the case of relatively low pre-punities. The Amnesty 1985 was even more stringent. But the 1995 Amnesty, which is the presentation of the proposal for a law which has now been debated here, was very generously interpreted. The model here provided for three aspects – which is also the subject of this today's proceedings – according to which an termination of criminal proceedings was planned on the one hand in § 1. In general, it is a problem here that we should: Statistical data, particularly what has affected parts of this amnesty in 1995, have not been collected by the courts until now. It would only be possible in individual cases to raise this later, which, of course, entails some difficulties on the basis of statistical data. For example, as regards § 1 of my employees who worked with it, I was told that very few procedures were involved, so that this provision did not really take effect. It looked completely different with regard to § 2. This section 2 provides for a criminal forbearance to take place. It has been possible for us to make an assessment on the basis of estimates by the criminal register office. You must imagine that all convictions are registered in the Criminal Register Office and are then “not executed” there, so that it is possible for us to understand them. Here we know that we had around 10,000 cases that fell under the Amnesty in 1995, with very many fines on the one hand. On the other hand, it has often been foreign criminals. It was partly German citizens or people from ex-Yugoslavia, as far as we were aware, so that with this amnesty law we favoured a population that was not even Austrian citizens. We have made particularly bad experiences – and the honourable Member has already pointed out – in the area of the conditional forbearance of a part of a punishment. In spite of the usual practice in Austria, this criminality was granted without regard to the person of the prisoner. Here, too, we have practically released arrears into punishment. I, too, see it as very difficult for the National Council, through a legislative project, to remove 10,000 legal judgments, which are secured by 10,000 cases, with one stroke. This is a serious development for me, too, especially with regard to the principle of separation of power. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] That is why, from my point of view, as Minister of Justice, this is not the right way. Mr Pendl referred to the situation in the overcrowded judicial institutions. We know this problem, we all know that this is a problem. We are working in different areas to solve this problem. But my path is certainly not that of emptying the Austrian prisons through an amnesty. This is not the way I am going to go, but my way is that in the field of electronic monitoring and in the field of non-profit work, instead of replacement sentences, we will do something to make sure that, on the other hand, we really want to implement essential aspects in the streamlining of the sentence in order to improve the work in judicial institutions in a targeted and efficient manner. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18147	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18168	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I am glad that you have spoken in front of me, because it now gives me the opportunity to clarify or remind me of a few things, so to speak, that I - please forgive me or allow me to say that - would have expected a little more precise information from a Federal Minister who has presented the opposition here and which in the text corresponds to what was decided unanimously in the National Council ten years ago, almost rejects it in Bausch and Arch and then speaks of estimates. Mrs. Federal Minister, if you say there is the criminal record estimate that it would have affected some 10,000 cases, then what does “estimation” mean? That it was 9 999? Or that it may have been estimated to be only 2,000? . We have already discussed this in the Committee, and I am quite surprised and surprised that you now have the chuzpe to come back with estimates in the discussion in the plenary session of the National Council, Mrs Federal Minister. It is a bit cheap – now in the truest sense of the word – things that the High National Council unanimously decided ten years ago, so to speak, to judge from the administrative or executive side behind us almost as misjudgments of the National Council and then not to be able to prove this. [[Abg. Amon: And what do you appreciate?]] What is it about the backsliding culprits? Do you know her? How many are they? What did they do afterwards? What happened to the Austrian population? – If you put such a thing in the room, I expect the Minister to prove it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I would like to tell colleagues here in the National Council why this draft has been presented. This draft says – and here it is explicitly in it – that it is based on the Amnesty 1995. This draft has been something like an intermediate for the lack of a draft by the Ministry of Government of the Government. It is not the task of the opposition to introduce draft laws here. We have a right of initiative, but I would never have come to the idea in life that under a law on “50 years Second Republic” and “40 years of State Treaty” – where the State Treaty was not mentioned at that time, but above all about Austria’s accession to the European Union – and this unanimously decided amnesty must present the opposition so that a discussion at all arises. I have actually assumed that you will bring a draft, a draft that corresponds to today's situation. Here in the oppositional draft, which was prepared by the Greens, this also stands inside. I'll read it to you: “At this point we want to expressly point out the willingness of the contributors to and the need for further party talks. In particular, there is still a need for special discussion on some issues:...’ You have never given us the opportunity to discuss it, but at the beginning of the commemorative year the FPÖ – at that time there was no BZÖ; so the times are changing – announced: no amnesty in the commemorative year. What do we care about 60 years of republic, what makes us a tradition that the High House has built?- Oh, my God! Now right-wing populism is in place, and now we are showing who is in the house in the truest sense of the word of the Lord. [[Abg. Scheibner: Rule of law, Mrs Colleague, Rule of law!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are no serious criminals going out of prison when there's Amnesty. Since Austria should have sunk in 1995 in chaos, all heavy criminals would have suddenly spewed out of stone, from barley and from Karlau. I have never heard of this, Mrs Federal Minister, you obviously have not, otherwise you would have done it today. The Freedom Party would be the first to come with newspaper reports saying: High house amnestys, and now this serious criminal is going to do something again. This is what I wanted to have written to you, in the truest sense of the word, in the main book, so that you can remember that we also allow ourselves to ask you to appreciate the work that the opposition is doing here, and that is a little too poor for me. So and now there are two facts on this question. I would like to have a discussion about the right of grace or amnesty here. Who's that? For ten years, I have not heard anything about the fact that it is actually something anachronistic to do amnesty, and that it is somehow called into question, as is the chairman of the Justice Committee today. Ten years of silence. I know many lawyers and lawyers who represent their clients and – that is not illegal – trust in the tradition of the legislator as regards Amnesty, just as it happens many times in connection with Christmas grace. You know very well, Mrs. Federal Minister, that when you go into the ports, I say, completely banal, you are affected by the Christmas amnesty. That's nothing bad, please, that's nothing bad. And that is not what you are going to do, nor are you criticizing it, but you are doing the same in your greetings, in the proposals made to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. I do not want two tongues to be spoken here, that the practice you propose to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is in reality different from what you now give of yourself to verbal legal populism here in the House, almost for the public. A Minister of Justice who represents and represents the third state power here, so to speak, I expect you, Mrs Federal Minister, Mr Lauterheit, to do so. As has already been said in connection with the victims of National Socialism, where you do not want to close the gaps in the recovery of citizenship, I can only say in this case: In the field of justice, there may be some who are concerned. Acts are not set in the year of thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18232	The next item is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18253	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits, I have already accused you of being absurd or non-worldly in a different context today. I would like to say, on the requests you are making today, or on the current request, that you have accused Mr Lopatka of: This request is dangerous, and dangerous to the Austrian people, because you do not want anything other than to release criminals from prison for judicial convictions. They want to terminate criminal proceedings and shorten fines imposed by judges. And these are not just small criminals, Mrs. Stoisits... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: With your voice the law was passed ten years ago!]] – You have been talking with a shrill voice for so long, now let me speak, honourable Member. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] – They not only want to amnesty small criminals, but also drug dealers, child abusers, burglar thieves, all of them. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why did you vote in favour of this law ten years ago?]] It's already been cut: Ten thousand cases would be affected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you do not hesitate to destroy judicial judgments with a dash. No, Mrs Stoisits, we're not with that! You can't win my group to do this. If you say that an amnesty was also decided ten years ago, I have to resist it: At that time, crime was much lower than today. On every occasion, you complain that crime is high, and then you want to release the criminals from prisons or stop criminal proceedings. You can't make that clear to the population at all or bring it closer to such an idea. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also absurd that you want to take the event 50 years of state contract for such an amnesty. A year of commemoration, in which something is thought about what has happened for the good of Austria, you want to recoup to a benefit for people who have only damaged Austria and the Austrians. [[Abg. Oillinger: How was Pretterebner?]] This is really absurd, Mrs Deputies. Nobody understands. [[Abg. Oillinger: But what about Pretterebner?]] – What does Pretterebner have to do with this, Mr Ollinger? That has nothing to do with the Amnesty! Anyway, that's a completely false sign. At a time when crime has increased enormously in which the perpetrators are extremely brutal, you want to place such a sign, Mrs Stoisits. I cannot understand your thinking at all, nor can my group. On every occasion you emphasize: We have to do something for the population, and I am a politician to work for the population. – But you don’t think about the population at all, because you don’t care about the population! Find a culprit, a criminal who's running down an old muatterl who's getting his money from the bank, who's slipping into people's apartment, worth protecting, Mrs. Deputies? Do you think it's right that people should be released from prison earlier than the judge fixed it? - Not me! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Neither do we!]] I would advise you that you also think of the population in criminal law, and that you do not easily go beyond the needs of the population. [[Abg. Oillingers: You were for it once too!]] It was spoken of here by the full prisons. So that really can't be a reason for us to amnesty, legalize, open the doors and say: Well, it's actually all that the judge has put on punishments, we're going to get over it, we're abusing everything! – No, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to! [[Abg. Oils: Who wants that?]] Right of grace yes, with individual examination by an act of the Federal President, but we reject an amnesty law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18385	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18406	Madam President. Minister of Justice! Mr State Secretary! I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18467	Mr Dipl.-Ing. The motion for a resolution which has been tabled has been duly submitted, duly supported and is being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18568	There has been no mention of this, and the rapporteur also does not wish to conclude. That is why the debate is closed, and we are coming to the vote. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1241 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Partik-Pablé, Dr. Fekter, colleagues, on the amendment to the organisation of the criminal service. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 157.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1190, e.g._Other Organiser [[Abg. Oillinger: This is a so-called self-contained attack application!]] [[19:10:34]] Bundesgesetz, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contractual Service Law 1948, the Law on Services, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the Law on the Service law Novelle 2005 (1243d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18616	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. That is what we are getting to the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18646	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary, greet God! [[Abg. Großruck: Why don't you give all the speeches at once?]] Mr. State Secretary Morak, the law of the service - apologise, it has nothing to do with you, but it gives rise to a certain degree of cheerfulness because I imagine a castle actor and the right to serve together. [[the speaker laughs]] Actually, I expected Mr Finz to come. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the principle of subsidiarity!]] At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to point out that the Greens have tabled a request for a separate vote – now I look at my top trade unionist – because the salary for officials gets our approval. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we have tabled a request for a separate vote on this truly comprehensive package, because this is not just about the right to serve, but about numerous laws that are being amended here. The request for separate vote indicates that the package as a whole does not receive our approval. Indeed, the overall package is the result of law decisions of the National Council – so thick are the laws; I have it above – and the cause of numerous organisational and content changes in different areas. We are consistent here in the decision-making of service-law novels and say that, in the case of provisions submitted by the legislator to the House and which do not agree with the Green Group, the organisational and service-law implementation is not our consent either. This consequence is perfectly logical in my eyes. That is why, in second reading, we will be symbolically grateful for the salary conclusion, leaving it to the imagination of each and every one of us to find out the motive for why this one has been so successful this year. [[Abg. Großruck: Because you have an excellent chairman – a fighter!]] I only call 2006 as a keyword. This, by the way, also benefits politicians. [[Abg. Großruck: This has nothing to do with it!]] - Yes, they're calculated, that's a median. [[Abg. Grossruck: They're bound to the pensions!]] - No, that doesn't have anything to do with pensions, that's the payroll. [[Abg. Großruck: The increase is bound to the pension!]] - Aha, okay. Thank you for the education. I also thought, skeptically as I am, of self-interests, which might also be a motive. Thank you for the education. [[Abg. Brosz: The Nikolo is coming today and next year the cramp is coming!]] Despite the positive salary conclusion for officials and contract staff, we cannot give this extensive service law novelle our consent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18774	The next item is the speech by Mr Neugebauer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18796	My dear colleagues! Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear colleagues! ==References== Service law novelle of this calendar year – this is the result of the social partners' negotiations with the Federal Government with my trade union – can be divided into five areas. It focuses on essential measures for families, such as improved use of care-free and family hospice. We are responding to the decisions we have taken in connection with the conservation of educational sites. On the agenda of tomorrow's plenary session, we have the question of the establishment of educational universities, the pooling of educational academies and institutes, i.e. places of the fort and Training in concentration. This has consequences of service law on various functions. Here we proceed very consistently. We are orienting ourselves in a third point to improving our executive officers. In fact, we are extending the provisions of the Guard-Personance Act in connection with judicial enforcement of pain money and earnings. A fourth point, which has led to a different point of view in the Committee, is the following: Just as one can equip e-card or bank card with a citizen card service function in the private area, there will also be the offer to provide service cards with personal data accordingly. We are aware that in such a case, at least theoretically every step of the public servant can be understood. To this end, a bar is proposed when we have agreed on a binding basis – and the talks with the Federal Government have already begun – that this citizen card function is not only made available to the staff without any additional costs, but also that it does not have to be used. So it is in the voluntary discretion of the staff to use this citizen's card function. We are in the process of negotiating mandatory standards in the handling of personal data in the public service in a framework agreement with the Federal Government for all departments. I would like to add a fifth and last amendment, Madam President, together with Mr Fauland, which contains a total of 30 pages and a few hundred figures. There is nothing but the conclusion for the Federal Services, National Services and Municipal Services, whose earnings are to be valorised by 2.7 percent. I beg you that I may distance myself from the reading of this convolut. As always, we have to prevent all rumours, Mrs Stoisits, based on the parameters of inflation and economic growth. We decide today for the federal staff and state teachers. The President of the Municipal Government has given his consent to his local authorities. I assume that the countries – and here I am particularly addressing the state of Styria – will understand this salary of 2.7 percent accordingly. This conclusion has been received very positively by the co-operative. At this point, I would like to thank you very much for what public services are all about. I refer to a large conference, ministerial conference, which has been held recently, namely on 24 and 25. November, in Manchester. Austria's professionalism in the eGovernment, in the electronic act – I refer in particular to this house – is an excellent and excellent one. Thank you very much for the excellent work done by public servants in the Federal Government, in the countries and communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e18854	I declare that the request of the Members of Parliament, Neugebauer, Fauland and colleagues, which has just been tabled by Mr Neugebauer, is sufficiently supported, is also available in writing and, on the basis of its scope, in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG. He is also involved in the negotiations. Furthermore, this request will be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e35639	Next, Mr Pendl. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e35661	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Such a social union union union is simple, isn't it? Good outcome of the negotiations, you say. But it's a long tradition here in the house, too, that you discuss it. I am very grateful to the public for their services at the outset, on behalf of my group, but also personally. Fritz Neugebauer just did it. I would, however, particularly like to thank the employees of the Parliamentary Directorate very much, because it is so common to always do so at the BDG-Novelle. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We already know what we often ask you about the year, and I think you're providing an excellent service for us. I have already said in the Committee that there is a single point where we have a problem, and that is why Mr Marizzi will make a request for a separate vote. We do not see this with the citizens' card function of the service card. In the course of the negotiations, it will really be possible to find out what the final outcome on this question is. Everything else, starting from the salary conclusion to the individual points in the BDG-Novelle, can be supported, which we are very happy to see today. However, I would like to ask – I will do so on every occasion and I have already said so: Let us not always see everything as a matter of course in terms of public service. If we try to convey to our fellow Members the feeling of being together, we will not give them the feeling that they are exclusively a cost factor. Those who have followed the reports in the media in the last few days know what alone has triggered the recognition of the Constitutional Court. That is why I really want to invite and ask to see that the public service as a whole is doing great things. These are people, these are colleagues, and we should do everything we can to calm them down and not to be unsure, because I think we all have an interest in providing high quality in public service – and it will be delivered, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I should therefore like to make the following request from Mr Wittmann and Mr Pendl: Resolution The Federal Government is asked to propose to the National Council, on the basis of the equal treatment of all workers, a solution to the uneven pension provisions between the civil servants' pension area on the one hand and the ASVG area on the other, without intervening in constitutionally guaranteed rights. I also said clearly in the Committee that we must have negotiations and regulations at all times, but for one thing we are not: The SPÖ is not in favour of a constitutional majority, so that it is now almost possible to pass through the constitutional barrage about the officials. The officials didn't deserve it either.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e35730	Deputies! I have not now noticed that you have read the motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Pendl: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: He just read it out!]] Okay. There are currently a lot of applications up here. We need to be careful that we have everything in line. The motion for a resolution is therefore tabled, is present in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e35795	The next item is the speech by Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e35816	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The first is the salary of officials, the public service of 2.7 percent. I believe that this is the way in which the importance of the public service is highlighted in a positive way. The achievements shown here in many areas have deserved also the necessary recognition. Nevertheless, in the public service there is still, unfortunately, an imbalance between contract staff and civil servants, with a different remuneration for the same activity, for the same performance. For this reason, it was and is our demand to create a uniform system within the framework of a Federal Workers' Act in order to lead this injustice into the past. We were very pleased, therefore, when Mr. State Secretary on Monday, 5th. In December, in the ‘Kurier’, we have also called for all that we have called for in terms of content. We were extremely surprised. We hope and are fully convinced that you will now also follow the words and we will decide on a common right of service for all areas in the foreseeable future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, the specific requirement must be taken into account in the different areas. To shave everything about a comb, as we now know from painful experience, has not proved to be the case. We need a separate regime for the military service, in which the mandatory foreign dispatch is included, we need our own rules for the executive service and for the general administration sector. If we implement this, it will be possible to pay everyone the same and just. For this reason – and in agreement with our coalition partner – I can make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e35882	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Fauland is in writing, is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e35941	The next item is Mr Morak. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e35962	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. No one in this House, I think, can better go into this novel than Mr Neugebauer. Nevertheless, I would like to add something to him, just because it seems important to me. One is that there will be a better regime for re-entry, i.e. a false-screen scheme, for employees who can be selected in the interest of the federal government – that is to say, those who work in international organisations, bring in their know-how and represent Austria. The second point seems to me to be essential in this context, that it is possible to use an hourly allowance for care. This was possible only half a day or all day. I believe that it is a good way of responding more flexibly to the demands of everyday life for mothers who are in work in the future. I also welcome the improved regulation of family hospice by extending the possible use, because I think it is an improvement to provide for nine months now instead of the six months so far. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been pointed out that the administration is increasingly reorganising. Austria has a groundbreaking function here. I was not only at conferences in Manchester, but also in Tunis, and if you have seen the Austrian stand with the know-how solutions there, then you will have come to know how much know-how is represented here on the one hand and how much you know abroad about it. Our authorities or the people who represent this abroad are flooded with questions about how to get the solutions, how we came to the solutions and how we did them. We therefore have new approaches in the administration of this Republic, which are very important for attention abroad. I'd like to wish that the people who have worked this out also get this attention domestically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, these solutions are exceptional, have an extraordinary effect also on the future of this country and are also forward-looking solutions in the administration and in dealing with voters, with the people who are being administered by officials in this Republic! That is, the permeability of the devices will increase, and I think that will also bring the state closer to the people. In this context, we can also see all the measures we put in place with the new ID card. In principle, ladies and gentlemen, believe in me to make work easier for people, to make work easier for people, to make work possible for people, for example, mothers, by seeing from home an act that they could no longer work in the office. Ladies and gentlemen! We should not block out in principle and say that this is the glass man and this would only have negative effects, but we should also think about it – and that is what it means – that we want to support the people in their work, we want to bring the state closer to the citizens, but we also want to give officials the opportunity to communicate directly with the people who want anything from you. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I also thank you. It is not only the late hour, but it is also true here that there has been a lot of consensus. The controversy here concerns essential issues, I think one should talk about it, but believe me, just as this law came about, as this law has been drawn up, it has happened in a good consensus in this Republic. And I would like that more often. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36026	The next item is Mrs Grander. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36048	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! In Tyrol, in particular, there is always the discussion about small schools, and this law also deals with the preservation of small and medium-sized schools. This is a particular concern for us in Tyrol, which is a great need in the population, especially from the geographical situation. This draft law now provides the prerequisite for school directors to be able to run two compulsory schools. It is particularly the small schools in the individual case, for which this is appropriate. I have also taken out the point that the heads of the Federal Schools can participate in the resumption of teachers or have the opportunity to give an opinion on the knowledge and skills of these candidates. An important step for me is the school-specific personnel needs and personnel development plans, because I also know from my field as a care director how important this is. The improvement of family housing benefits by extending from six months to nine months has already been taken up, with the care of care and caregivers in need of care being greatly helped and the care of these people also improved. In order to provide for the care of severely ill children for a maximum period of five months, a measure should be granted under the Family Hospice Exemption, the extension of the measure should be allowed as before, with the total duration per occasion now extended to nine months. In this context, it must be seen that for children with cancer, therapies can go over half a year or a year, which is why this regulation is very important to me. It could be achieved that the possibility of death accompaniment will be extended to children of choice and care, or to parents-in-law and children-in-law. Last: The use of the care exemption for fathers and mothers is intended to be adapted in the sense of flexibility to the actual needs of the staff so that hourly use is possible in the future, while it is currently only possible for half-days and days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36093	The next item is the speech by Mr Marizzi. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36114	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! You know, and I'm sending ahead that we agree to this novel, but with an exception, as has already been said. The salary performance has been good and successful. This is a success of the staff representation and of the social partners, but I would like to make a request concerning these Service Law Novelles, namely: Request ==References====External links== Decisions to be taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the proposal from the Commission to The application for a law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: In Art. 1 Z 2 falls within the scope of § 60 para. 2a BDG; the following digits are adjusted accordingly. This does not allow for the provision on the Installation of the chip in the identity cards, we have a different opinion from you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I shall make a second request. In order to ensure and maintain the data protection of staff in the future, I shall submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's our opinion on this. We are admittedly more cautious because we are very sensitive when it comes to data protection. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In total, this novelle regarding family hospice exemption, care treatment, care exemptions and other improvements is a very good novelle. We have long discussed this in the Constitutional Committee. They have not been convinced, this is the case in democracy, we have not been successful. [[Abg. Grander: You have not been convinced!]] You're gonna do that, we're gonna have to live with it. Some things have also been improved in the executive – pain money and earnings. Because Mr Scheibner says to me: Today we have already talked about the police, but although we all say here, we thank the officials and it's all so wonderful, the pressure on the officials is increasing, the work of the police officers is increasing. The Court of Auditors has indicated, ladies and gentlemen, that between 2000 and 2004 in the Republic of Austria, the number of police officers has fallen by 2 580, and 700 retire in the year. According to today's opinions, you have reduced the establishment plan by 950 again, and unfortunately this is the wrong policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36168	I declare that Mr Marizzi has just tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Pendl and Mr Marizzi. This is sufficiently supported, is also available in writing and is under negotiation. Mr Marizzi also has a motion for a resolution by the honourable Member Mag. Johann Maier, Pendl, Spindelberger, Riepl and Marizzi. This application is also sufficiently supported, properly submitted, also available in writing and is under negotiation. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36281	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36303	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marizzi, you have presented service plans here, although you know very well that there are, of course, staff savings throughout the public service, therefore also in the field of the Ministry of the Interior – but of course – and we assume that this will be implemented exclusively in administrative areas in the field of executives. [[Abg. Marizzi: Not everywhere!]] The merger of police and gendarmerie has also served to reduce administrative posts in order to obtain more capacity for the executive on the street, in operation. That is, I think, the right approach. This should not be criticized, but rather supported. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My colleague, Mr Fauland, has already commented on the BDG-Novelle and on the salary conclusion accordingly. I would like to refer to a point that honourable Member Pendl has already mentioned in committee and here, namely the VfGH knowledge of the rules on retirement. Mr Pendl, it is so easy not to make any criticism of such, as I believe, injustices are then immediately declared flat-rate as annihilation and discreditation of the entire official state or civil service. Because that's not how it is. Of course, we want active, motivated officials as a service provider in the state and also as a service provider to the customer, namely to the citizens, that is no question at all, and in far-reaching areas also excellent work is done here, sometimes under difficult conditions. But precisely because we want to uphold this reputation and reputation, we also have to admit openly and honestly where injustices exist. It is quite simply an ASVG-pensionist who has a pension of – since he must already have had a very good career course – perhaps € 2,000 or just over that per month, not to explain that if he deserves a minimum pension, this pension, if he is in the early pension, is not only shortened, but removed, ladies and gentlemen, while at the same time a high official with perhaps €6,000 or €7 000 pension is working as an advisor or in any undertaking and can earn another €3,000, €4,000 without even being reduced 1 € of his peak pension. This is unfair, people feel quite conscious and justified as unfair, and this is repaired – in the sense and also for the benefit of the officials, ladies and gentlemen. And that's what we're calling for. I know that it is not optimal for the optical and the rule of law to become “righteous” to become a VfGH knowledge – under quotation marks – that one simply lifts the abandoned provision into the constitutional rank and thus disables control, not a question, but we want and demand a repair of this, as we believe, unjust solution. An approach would be – and we have agreed to this, and Mr Finz, after initial hesitation, has turned to this line – that the Federal Workers' Act, which is enshrined in the government programme, is now being developed and implemented more quickly and accordingly. Then one could not only solve this issue of retirement provisions, but also create a truly modern, forward-looking civil service law and salary law, which could also solve several other problems, such as the different salary procedures of contract staff and officials. There are calculations that there is a difference of up to €150 000 in the sum of life between contract staff and officials: in the same function! Or, for example, the problem of high school graduates with their evaluation in the public service. Or, as mentioned above, the special service rights of the executive and the federal army. All of this we expect from this federal employee's right, and we assume that this can still be presented in spring. There is also a motion for a resolution in this direction. But you shouldn't do it that simple and say that these are well-acquired rights. I think we should have overcome this argument. Everyone should be paid justly for his work, but unjustly justified privileges, just as these now repealed provisions of rest, should definitely belong to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36345	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on the draft law 1243 of the supplements. Mr Neugebauer, Mr Fauland, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill, which have not yet been voted on by the supplementary or amending amendments mentioned and by the request for separate vote. Mr Pendl, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to the deletion of Z 2 in Article 1. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the amendment or amendment tabled by Members Neugebauer, Fauland, colleagues, who are referring to Rule 2, 3, 4 and 14. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Wittmann, ladies and gentlemen, on equal treatment for all employees. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's not the majority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Neugebauer, Fauland, and colleagues on further development of service law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. (E 158.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Maier, colleagues and colleagues on a legal obligation to appoint an independent and non-profit-making data protection officer. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. [[19:45:53]] 12. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1084, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Information Security Act (1244, e.g.) 13. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1171, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the award of contracts (Bundesvergabegesetz 2006 – BVergG 2006) (1245 d.b.) 14. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1193, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Implementation of Volks-, Arbeitstätten-, Gebäude- und Wohnungstellungen und Bundesgesetz, which amends the Postal Act 1997, the Notification Act 1991 and the Education Documentation Act (1246 d.b.) 15. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Constitutional and Residence Law (1247, e.g.) 16. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on amendment No 180/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1950 census law (1248 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36523	We shall now proceed to items 12 to 16 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Wittmann was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36553	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In these points, several non-insignificant laws are summarized, including the Federal Procurement Act. In this respect, it should be noted that this is an extremely difficult matter because a balance of interests between countries and the federal government, between providers and tenderers, is necessary between all parties applying for public procurement. This balance of interests is therefore so difficult, as it is, of course, seen differently from each side. However, the excellent work of the civil service provided a very good basis, and finally a consensus could be reached in the decisive negotiations. After all, €37 billion will be handled in Austria through this law. It is therefore a core law concerning all public contracts. There have been significant improvements in the field of environmental justice, in the sector as a result of our suggestions. There is now a demonstrative list for the criteria of the best bidder principle. There is a strengthening of the reliability tests, a transfer of the reliability check to the subcontractors employed. Most of the concerns expressed by the architects were also given place, and there will be another motion for a resolution on the anonymity of the procedure. I think that there has also been a genuinely consensusable round of negotiations in this respect, which has finally come to a law, as I believe, that implements the directive and as far as possible binds the interests of all parties involved. Another matter to be debated here is the registration law, and I think that this is really where the child is being poured out with the bath. In my opinion, it is completely wrong to carry out the link between registration registers, social security registers, educational institutions, tax registers, labour market service, business registers, building and housing registers in such a way as to give the key to the field-specific identification numbers exclusively to the Ministry of the Interior, so that the Ministry of the Interior can link all these data and then make them personal. This is actually nothing but a grid search on stock if all the data of each Austrian come together in the Ministry of the Interior and are ultimately collected in the Ministry of the Interior, which is not necessary for a register counting. It would have been possible to leave the field-specific identification numbers in the ministries, not to merge these data sets, and above all not to give the Ministry of the Interior as the only ministry, as a service provider to the Data Protection Commission the keys to be able to merge all these data. This is a comparison of data that is not necessary for a register counting law. The more serious it is that the Register Counting Act even requires the comparison of these data if different data sets are obtained from the Registers. It is easy to do all of this through a register counting law. We were also for a register counting law, but anonymized. It is not necessary to give the Ministry of the Interior the personal key, but it is possible to collect this data anonymously from the registers and then process it anonymously. And the uncertainty caused by the fact that there are perhaps different data sets in individual cases is scientific and completely irrelevant for statistics. It is therefore a terrible result of giving the Ministry of the Interior the technical possibilities to link these data. If things like this happen, as we have already experienced at EKIS, that data is illegally retrieved, then we will all wonder why this is technically possible and why it was done this way. In addition, it is completely incomprehensible that this delicate law in the area of data protection has been passed by the Data Protection Council and has not been treated there at all. This also testifies to a certain attitude. I think that the glass man is created here, and the Orwell surveillance state was actually a harmless example of what really happens here. This law is for reasons of data protection, in fact, because of the violation of human rights and the individual rights of each individual.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36601	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36625	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, This item on the agenda is a summary of several points, as my previous speaker has said. I would like to limit myself to the right of award, to the Registering Act or to the Information Security Act, my colleagues will still comment. I am very confident in the right to award that we will make a four-party decision – at least when I consider the discussions in the Committee and also in the preliminary discussions – and I am very happy about that. I would like to stress this explicitly here. I think it was well done, and I believe that all the negotiating parties have announced their willingness to compromise in the negotiations and have been ready for a good and right law. On the one hand, I would like to thank my colleagues for the joint constructive negotiations. But I would also like to thank the officials – and this is really my heart. In particular, I would like to mention Dr Fruhmann, who has created the basis for this success through a very profound and excellent support from all of us. The same applies, of course, to his colleagues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Most importantly, there was a really good cooperation between the federal officials and the countries. In 2002, as you know, we created the federal award law. At the time, we were lucky that a relatively large consensus and harmony existed between the federal government and countries, bearing in mind the desire to create a common, uniform contract law, instead of, as before, splitting this matter into nine different state laws, or partly even the same state laws and a federal law. And that was the foundation for a very interesting development at the time. However, we have, Mr Wittmann has already pointed out, quite narrow boundaries in procurement law and this sometimes makes a compromise difficult. We must involve countries in what is in itself doing well, and there must also be the consent of the countries before the rallying. That's the one barrier. That is to say, the countries which are first and foremost contracting entities must and should also be involved. On the other hand, we also have a very close corset through EU law and also through the case law of the Constitutional Court. I still believe that it has succeeded in creating a suitable legal basis for forgiveness, which, as you all know, are not always easy. This federal law is intended to enable concessions in the small area with which mayors or officials have to deal, i.e. relatively simple forgivenesss, up to very complex and very difficult allocations. And this legal framework has been created with this federal procurement law. We have not been able to fulfill all the wishes that I have addressed here in a short time. There were some demands of the regional construction directors, for example the requirement for exemption of the sub-suspension area from the formal protection of procurement rights. It's not possible. Here we would act against the Judicature, against the constant case law of the Constitutional Court, and we cannot do that with a view to seeing. Or the problem of subcontractors: In this respect, we have tried to find a solution. I refer to § 83, which also considers the transfer of the entire contract inadmissible. The construction industry was not satisfied with everything. I would like to stress that during the negotiations we have endeavoured to address and take into account the objections of the construction industry. In concrete terms these are §§ 97 and 99: the binding of the Ö standards or the standardised performance descriptions. This link exists in principle. According to the explanatory remarks, deviations are possible, but the deviations must be justified and disclosed. We were also unable to respond to all the wishes of the architects. However, because of lack of time, I do not want to address it more precisely now, my colleague Helga Machnenoch will do so. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36717	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, tabled by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Wittmann, Mr Hofmann, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, has been properly submitted, is sufficiently supported, is available in writing and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36768	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36790	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on a chapter of this whole package, which is the right to award, which has already been mentioned, for certain reasons, which are also in the past of this House. This new law, which, I must say, has been fairly negotiated by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer in conversation with us – which I would like to see in many of the drafts in the Constitutional Committee – has great consequences. 16 percent of the gross domestic product is distributed by public authorities in the construction sector. That's a huge sum. This has not only economic and social consequences, but also, above all, cultural effects. In this House a survey on building culture and architecture has taken place in which all the political groups of this House have put forward their proposals. I think we are also in the tradition of this survey, that we are introducing proposals for raising the quality of construction culture in Austria in such large legislative projects as contract law. It could have been more from our point of view, but it is a lot of that law that is important. Overall, it is still to be said that both the directive and the jurisdiction of both the European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court have been properly incorporated into the law and that the law also provides for separate procedures, rules for the public sector and the so-called sector. This is the area of services in the public interest, which are still very important in many sectors and in which there must still be strict rules. The regulatory density is very high, that is to say, what is required of the European Union is relatively dense. This was a reason for many of those who have joined the legislative process in the opinion process, rather than pleading for higher thresholds, in order to allow for more, for example, direct awarding. – That was just said in the history. What we are pleased with is that certain principles in order to guarantee quality in the construction process have now been incorporated into the law and also negotiated jointly. First of all, it is the strict separation of planning and implementation in order to guarantee the quality of mental services. What has been negative from our point of view is that such projects as the EM stadium in Klagenfurt have been completely outsourced to a general contractor, for example. Such developments are not desirable in the medium term for the quality of such large construction projects. We have not agreed on competition and anonymity, as there are still legally interesting opinions on this. Maybe some of you know the procedures at the Vienna Philharmonics. There's being played behind a black curtain. You don't know who the candidates are. And it's only selected... – I'm just trying to explain that because it's relatively complicated. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: This is also anonymous!]] The fact that anonymity can be important in such procedures is, I think, undisputed. There has been a pass on which we have been told that it is not possible, on the basis of EU law, to guarantee the anonymity of competitions until the decision. There is now a legal opinion of university professor Dr. Josef Aicher, who has also advised the Federal Chancellor's Office on the law enforcement, which states that this is not mandatory. However, we have heard from the ÖVP that the time is too short to reach a consensus on this point with the countries. We will, of course, nevertheless vote in favour of the proposal, and we will also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which announced an evaluation of anonymity after a year. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I would nevertheless like to make an amendment to the documentation of this important concern, which is relatively comprehensive. I read it now, it's almost 20 lines, I hope for your patience. [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to understand that the application is relatively extensive. However, all those involved in the Constitutional Committee with the right to award are informed of this request and know the background. Perhaps next year we can also force anonymity to be embedded in the law on this point. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36853	Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek's request for amendment is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36915	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36936	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I will also only refer to the Federal Procurement Act. Klubobmann Scheibner will then certainly still refer to the registration law. I should like to thank Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, who has already been expressed by his colleague Baumgartner-Gabitzer, for his thanks to the officials, especially Dr Fruhmann, who, with his competence, has contributed to the fact that this law has come into being in this form of consensus. Thank you very much. It has already been mentioned that, on the one hand, VfGH knowledge and on the other hand, requirements have been incorporated into the law on the basis of the existing EU Directive. We have tried to make a good law on the basis of these conditions. I think I can say that it has actually been successful. It is a special pleasure for me to take due account of SMEs and their demands in particular. In other words, we have been thinking about how we manage to get away from general contractors and general planners and to individual awards where, of course, there are always interfaces and interface losses. And we have found a good way, as I mean, with the planning coordinator and the implementation coordinator. It is also clear that assignments of planning and execution are to be carried out separately. Furthermore, it is ensured that the award of intellectual services is not only subject to a peuniary assessment, but also to give talks, award negotiations. I would also like to mention that I am very pleased that what has taken place in recent years and, as I believe, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, an artificial barrier has now been removed by this law on the basis of a committee statement. It's about the quality associations. I believe that in a modern federal award law, it is not possible to continue the way for membership of quality associations and other associations which claim to be for quality assurance to be decisive to participate in the tendering procedures or, where appropriate, to receive the award, because huge costs are associated with which, of course, large companies do not have the same effect as small businesses, which are often prevented from taking part in a tender. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief comment on the Green amendment. In terms of content, I don't think it's a real issue. However, I think we should take the time to carry out an evaluation in one year and, if necessary, to bring in other thoughts. The time has actually been too short to reach agreement with countries. I think, however, that there are still starting points that can be brought into the discussion. We will also find a reasonable solution. However, I would also like to note that there are very complex competitions, in particular in architectural competitions, where discussion is often needed. That is to say, I clearly state that the anonymity where it is possible to maintain, is often necessary, however, to have a discussion, namely, an actual discussion. But there are, as I said, also thoughts. I think we have achieved something very good with this law matter, and I am pleased that we can reach a consensus. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e36990	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37012	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the Registering Act and the Accompanying Criteria. These are classic data protection laws. And I would like to insist, I regret that these laws, these documents were not dealt with in the Data Protection Council. I also regret that the opinion of the Federal Chamber of Labour, for example, which is very detailed and refers to data protection issues, was in no way taken into account. And all here in this House were already of the opinion that this elaborate, classical popular survey should be replaced by a modern register. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! This law, however, does not live up to it. The purpose is not the census, but a grid comparison of personal data, supposedly to increase the quality of data in the individual administrative registers. The proposed rules to examine the accuracy of each entry are incompatible with the census – and I would like to maintain that. The census appears to be the cover for general registration. And now it comes: Mr Wittmann has already pointed out that the use of the already specific personal identification or the social security number makes it possible to focus and monitor classically. This can, and I would like to expressly retain this on behalf of my group, disproportionately intervene in the fundamental right to data protection in individual cases. But let me also point out other inconsistencies, for example in the Federal Statistical Act. So far, these data has only been passed on anonymously, not now. This gives up statistical secrecy. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is not acceptable to us. I would like to ask you once again and refer to the 2002 document of Statistics Austria, which states: clear and strict rules on data protection: Where are these clear and strict data protection rules? – I do not find them, so we reject this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37046	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37068	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today we also adopt a novel on the Information Security Act. Austria's companies, which are seeking contracts abroad in sensitive areas such as security technology, often need proof of their company's security that secret information is not passed on. Therefore, some states of Austria demand the conclusion of government agreements granting mutual security of classified information. Such government agreements are thus often the prerequisite for Austrian companies to apply for relevant contracts abroad, as appropriate state safety certificates are necessary to fix the tender documents. On the basis of a resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany from 1920, the Federal Government may conclude so-called Government Conventions, unless they are State Treaties to be ratified by Parliament. However, such government agreements may only be concluded in matters covered by law such as a regulation. It is therefore a kind of regulatory authority. However, the current Information Security Act does not include the planned arrangements for government agreements on the mutual protection of classified information. The novelle under consideration today therefore provides for the arrangement for the issue and revocation of so-called safety safety certificates and then allows the Federal Government authorised by the Federal Government to conclude the relevant government agreement. It is currently planned to conclude such agreements with Germany and the Czech Republic. This is a very important matter for the high technology of our country, is an essential factor in securing the economic location of Austria, and I therefore hope that this law will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37100	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37121	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Regler, I am unfortunately unable or unable to take account of this hope. [[Abg. May. Regulator: Your attitude was still open!]] It honors you, however, that you hope for us. However, I have great problems with the registration law. I do not want to repeat what Mr Maier said. [[Abg. May. Controller: The Information Security Act!]] - No! So you have only referred to the Information Security Act. I am dealing with the Information Security Act. I have already tried to explain it in committee: Consequenced as we are, we expressed our concerns at the time when this law was passed by the tribal law. Nor did these concerns become – no –, they have not been scattered since then. [[Abg. May. Controllers: They have not proved true.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You're scattered enough!]] - No, they haven't been scattered. Since these concerns are still justified, we cannot give this law our approval even today. [[Abg. Scheibner: What concerns?]] But now I want to devote myself to the registration law. [[Abg. Neudeck: This does not destroy the quality of the law!]] The registration law is on and on itself something that sounds good. There are no incredibly complex, incredibly expensive and incredibly stressful censuses. And these censuses, Mr State Secretary, if you have ever been the head of the household in your life, you know, are taxing, have been just too scurry absurd. Actually, we could say: Let us all be glad that there is no longer any longer that these times have been overcome. However, what is now coming is unfortunately due to errors or not fault-resistant enough as it seems to us. And what Jacky Maier said, I totally share. I would like to give you an example of the absurd consequences of the situation that we are now creating. Everyone needs to fill out a registration note when you log in. So far, there has been no heading for the so-called family status on the notification paper. From now on, there will be the heading Family status on the registration paper. And I think this is an absolute intervention into the most personal intimate atmosphere of each individual. Imagine the following situation – I'm from the country, so I can imagine it very well there –: Someone moves to the country, has to register immediately, registers there, and gives truth – another possibility on the registration note is not “married” – in order not to violate the administration, does not say to commit a breach of law, as a family status – that is now to be done in the future. At their own address – assumed, the first person was a man – registers a woman and is true to the family status. Now the first person who is married cannot be married to the second person who is idle – otherwise the second person would not be idle. That means, maybe there's a man living with a woman, and they're not married to each other. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have a problem with this?]] – I ask you: What is this about the rest of the local population? [[Abg. Donabauer: They don't care about that either! The population is not interested!]] Now it is the case that you have to hand over the registration note to the community. From this moment on, everyone knows. That's reason enough for me to reject this law. - That was the first point. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] The second point: There are sometimes also successes in Parliament, even for my part. I made a request about three years ago, dead right that exists in the Austrian legal system – and that for decades! – finally to abolish, namely the secret collection of the mother tongue. This is an incredibly perfide determination, which can only be explained from the time it was decided. – Explainable; even then she was very wrong. – This is a constitutional provision in Austrian law. The Constitutional Committee – sometimes signs and wonders – has now reached a unanimous decision to eliminate this constitutional provision from the Austrian legal system. I am pleased that the members of the Constitutional Committee have followed my own proposal on this subject and that the conviction – it has taken a long time to mature! – then it was so mature to eliminate this anti-minority and at the time only for the damage – even to the intellectual damage – of the Austrian ethnic groups. I thank you sincerely and hope – and this hope does not now apply to my colleague, Mr Regler, but above all to the Secretary of State, who represents the executive here – that what is now possible in the collection of the language of the trade – this is also a sensitive matter in the new legal provisions on the counting of registers – is handled with that sensitivity that is necessary in order not to transfer the spirit of the old minority determination into a new law. Mr. State Secretary Morak, I now know you long enough. I would trust you in this, but I fear you have too little to talk about.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37260	Mr Morak, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37281	Ladies and gentlemen! I know that's a complex subject. However, I would like to say a few things about this because it seems important to me and because the topic – and I do not mean the registration, but how we do it – seems to me to be an essential topic of the future. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That you represent such a thing!]] Let's start with the beginning, so you know a little bit better what it's all about: The results of the census are particularly important for financial compensation, for the national elections, for the Federal Council and for its composition and, of course, for the preparation and knowledge of pension systems. How does the current scheme count? – By surveying the population. These were 20 million questionnaires – so that it is clear once! I still remember the work in the neighborhood today, when this convoluted convolut of arches reached the households. – Even when using the most modern computer technologies, the counting of these arches took three years and caused €72 million in costs! [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: This is beyond dispute!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you remember these bows again today – we will hopefully never see them again! – then we will ask ourselves questions about which we have now all discussed and about which one may be rightly discussed. But I just want to say: These have been filled out and are of course all stored in computer systems. – Only so that it is clear: This is not stored in files, but, of course, stored on electronic media. We would like to know the birth dates, gender, family status, country of birth, citizenship, language of contact, position in the household, religion and so on. I can tell you all this if you want. - That's the one point. The other point is that we have basically broken our heads about how we can achieve the same effect on the one hand, but on the other hand, we make it easier for citizens and make this system so that it is cheaper. – It is now to be expected with a tenth of the costs that have so far been incurred for a census, in addition, we no longer have the trouble and the plague as before. But at the same time – and I have already said that in committee – the objections to this are serious. Why do I say this so free from the liver? – Because I believe we should not look to the future through this dispute, which is really about a cryptography, which is extremely complex and complicated and is one of the best in the world at all at the moment. That is why it is essential to me that we continue to discuss precisely these points in the next few days, because I think we are a state – and I said that at the outset – where the e-government works to a degree, as hardly elsewhere. We should raise these questions! We should talk about it and ask again: What is wrong with this argument and what is true of this argument, which has already been put into committee? I don't want to start talking to you about the tribal number and how it comes about and about all these stories. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior cannot link the numbers because it does not work, because it does not work at all! And if it were true, it would be a crime against the eGovernment law. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Of course you can link them!]] That is, if we consider all of this, I would say: Let us talk about this in detail and look at it together with the relevant experts so that we can get this discussion on earth and calm it down so that we can say: Yes, we want to build on it, we want to continue there! - That's the part. The other part, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the debate on the quality of the construction culture. – This word has often fallen. Faith You're telling me: The law does not regulate the quality of a building culture, but rather the procedure of a tendering process. As one or the other – I say now – knows from a painful experience, of course we have established the quality standard in the ORF law, but the quality is not really to be established in the law! What is quality architecture? – Perhaps this is something different for me than for you or for you, Madame Stoisits. That means that we may have different access to quality, and that one makes this in a law is impossible. If we are talking about anonymity in this area, I will also tell you: In some form we need to talk about what the construction and how the project should look like. – This should not be done by moderators, not by lawyers, lawyers or notaries, but, of course, by the object. You should talk to him about the object that has to answer this! I know the resolution of the Greens and believe that this is a good way to keep the subject awake and to continue talking about it. But we will also be able to discuss this topic on a very broad basis with a view to this report on construction culture, which we are currently preparing on a very broad basis and which we hope will be done in June. Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37353	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37374	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! A few comments on the two agenda items Register counting law and Information Security Act. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, of course, one could reject virtually any regulation and also any law with the argument that it could also be broken or misused. – Then we would not have to decide any more laws here, because this suspicion or this possibility is likely to exist in almost all the laws – and of course here too, we have discussed this in the Committee. If these fears – and the Secretary of State has now made this clear – this is a breach of law, which must also be prosecuted accordingly. I assume that he is also being suspected, and I also assume that the possibility of abuse has been made as difficult as possible. If this turns out to be different in execution, then you can adapt a lot more. The fact that one says one rejects this law because there is a risk that it might be misused, I do not quite understand, because the benefits are obvious. It is indeed, I believe, undisputed by all of us that we need the data that has been collected there and will be collected in the future – for financial compensation, but also for many other, including statistical purposes. It would not be so important to me, but it seems also interesting to know how many people in Austria are married, single, widowed and divorced, and that is why this is also raised here. [[Abg. May. Posch: For whom is this interesting? For you as a representative of the state? Who could that be interesting for?]] – I said, not for myself, but apparently for others, just as for some the religious confession is not interesting, especially for religious communities it will be interesting, and that must be raised together. [[Abg. May. Posch: Not even Mr. Prinzhorn is interested!]] Mr Posch, if we do not want to have this administrative burden, and also the harassment of the population, to be confronted with 70, 80 questions every ten years, then this networking and registration is the only way. Mrs Stoisits, on the subject of information protection, I do not quite understand you: You say you have looked at this, the concerns have come true, so you reject it, but you have not said what concerns. I remember, in previous discussions, they said: Such confidentiality agreements are quite suspicious, what do we actually have to do with them, because they may also be about things that are ‘NATO-restricted’, also about things in high technology or in the equipment field? Mrs Stoisits, this is not a problem at all!" You simply know that the Austrian economy is interested – a fundamental interest! – Austria has the possibility to conclude such protection agreements because only such Austrian companies will be allowed to enter into such competitions at all. – And God be Thank you there are companies, especially in the high-tech sector, who also want to participate internationally in the competitions! If one rejects this now for some reason, then one prevents these small Austrian high-tech industries and the high-tech companies from working internationally. I hope I don't need to tell you what that would mean for these companies in practice. That is why it would be useful for you to reconsider this negative attitude and decide on this important law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37430	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37451	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the speeches made by my previous speakers to the Federal Procurement Act, it is relatively easy to hear the characteristics of a compromise: that not all concerns about the whole will be enforced, but the overarching whole will be in the foreground. I think there has also been a very sensible and balanced compromise. It is also positive in this Federal Procurement Act that, as has already been noted in the Committee, the government is being stopped by a resolution, in particular by developing environmental guidelines for procurement in the Federal Republic of Germany and also by examining the consideration of social policy concerns in the implementation of the award procedure. The Federal Procurement Act is of particular importance for the countries – and these are the clients in particular. For example, in the last ten years almost one third of Vienna's apartments have flown the country's averages – half of which Rehabilitation. After all, 1 000 small and medium-sized enterprises and 10,000 employees benefited from these investments by Vienna-based housing alone in this year alone. Now different plants are always in use in the case of renovations, and there are particularly significant procedural significance in § 97(2) and § 99(2). There are, of course, also fears that 80 positions will be provided using the standardized performance description – for example, by rehabilitating a bathroom where gas, water and heating are to be put out. Only a quarter of these positions were necessary for the standard description, which has been used so far. But now it will be possible to list and write down certain points on a flat-rate basis. This is an example of a meaningful compromise, because it is possible to derogate – that has already been mentioned – when it is justified and clients and contractors agree. However, I do not want to say that, especially for the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, mandatory application of the ÖNORM is very desirable. There you will have to see in practice whether, if necessary, a revision of this law will be necessary. We will agree, and we believe that this is very useful. We have not made this agreement easy, but I think that is a compromise with which we can all live. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37502	The next item is Mrs Machne's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37524	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. With the new Federal Procurement Act, which is now in place for the vote, we will implement important political concerns, such as improved legal certainty and the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. It was certainly not quite easy to negotiate such an extensive matter, which, of course, concerns a number of sectors and professional groups. As a result, many amendments were made in advance – probably not only to me, but also to many of you. As a result, I am all the more pleased that proposals from the relevant stakeholders could now be submitted and that this amendment has finally received broad approval from the Committee. For example, it was the professional group of architects with whom I have had many conversations and whose wishes I have made. It was particularly important for the architects to define the separation of awarding and execution by law. This concern could also be taken into account by the omission of two words in § 22. The downturn in the threshold of 154 000 to 118 000 is based on an ECJ judgment intended for planning. It also agrees in principle. I am particularly pleased with the motion for a resolution tabled today by all the political groups, which states that after a year it is to be heard how the partial abolition of anonymity affects the implementation of competitions. Then you'll see what you're doing. I would not like to mention that this new law also needs the consent of the federal states before it can then be announced. I see in this paper a good balance between the interests of contractors and clients. I congratulate the chief negotiator, especially my colleague Dr. Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, with whom I have had many conversations, is now already a good result. -Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37575	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37596	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I too would like to lose a few words about this new Federal Procurement Act 2006. The old federal award law has held exactly four years. – In 2002, a new award law was passed here in the House. All parties are satisfied with the compromise reached. We will also agree to this compromise. How good this award law is, the future will be wise, for that is, as I mean, a very living matter. There will always be supply and demand together, and new mechanisms will be created again and again, which will require a new legal regime. Procedureal reliefs such as in the so-called sub-suspension area – such as the raising of thresholds – are, of course, also to be welcomed by the communities, although I would like to stress that the communities have always adhered to and adhered to the awarding law. However, if we look at some of the Court's reports concerning the ministries, we can see that there is almost no report that does not complain that the various ministries do not comply with the procurement laws. I am already excited about what this new Federal Procurement Act will be like in the future. In the future, I do not think the communities have too many problems at all if the awarding continues as in recent years, because the communities have in principle very little to forgive. I think the direct award with the € 40 000 will be enough for us to be able to afford the little money we have available. This is not a pity for me, but the city government has, with figures, clearly stated that public investment has fallen by 40 percent in recent years. Mrs Machne, I am not entirely of your opinion that the new procurement law will now help small and medium-sized enterprises. Do you know what would help small and medium-sized enterprises? – It would help them if the municipalities had more money available for cities in the regions outside to revive the economy in the regions and cities. This would be a real promotion of SMEs, a creation of jobs and, finally, a recovery of the communities and rural regions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today I met a very large provider on the topic of local care – this provider has a turnover of € 150 million and 600 employees – and he has made the following point in this conversation: Today you decide the Federal Procurement Act! What will this look like in the future with the awards of the federal procurement company? In fact, for small and medium-sized enterprises in our communities and regions, these awards are partly very, very harmful, not to say fatal. If that's a big one, then there's a lot behind it. I have found an interview with the Managing Director of the Federal Procurement Society, Mr. Nemec, and he has meant that the new contract law, which will be available at the beginning of 2006, will have instruments that will enable us to become more effective regionally. – I wonder: What instruments are contained in this law to better serve small and medium-sized enterprises in our regions and communities? I didn't find anything in that! I do not think we should always talk about SMEs and say how important they are to us, how important they are to us as an employer. The small and medium-sized enterprises cannot live of this beautiful speech. We should do something to revive this industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37667	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37688	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to say to my esteemed predecessor: The communities in my widths are investing properly. Communities that are well managed certainly have fewer problems with the finances than communities that may be run a little salopp. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Never have the municipalities received as much money as after the last financial compensation negotiated by this Federal Government last year. You must take note of this, even if it is still so difficult for you to finally accept the good work of the government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Ask your mayor!]] You need to see the reality and get rid of your political complex! Point two: registration law. I don't quite understand when dramaturgies take place here, which have not lost anything here. Anyone who once worked in a community knows what enormous burden the census was every ten years, how difficult it was to carry out the post-work, how difficult it was to fill more than 20 counts. It was said that about three to three and a half hours each citizen, every citizen needed to do so. Now we have finally found a new way, and that you do not think anything better than criticism, which clearly shows that you have not tabled any amendments or resolutions to this effect until the minute. You do not think anything better, because this regulation is certainly useful anyway. Mr Maier, I very much appreciate you, but you have said here several times that the Data Protection Council should have been involved. May I kindly point out that the Data Protection Council has done several times in recent months, but the SPÖ has never required these issues to be on the agenda. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's wrong!]] That's your right, but then you confess to it today! I suspect that you have already taken all of this with you in the consultation of the Employment and Housing Statistics Regulation in 2003 and that this is all right anyway. The review has certainly received valuable opinions, and they have also been incorporated, not a question. That not everything could be incorporated, I think you will understand, because that is, I think, quite in the sense of the matter. If you do not agree to this law, then nothing happens – we will decide it because it is good – but then you refuse to make any progress, and your criticism thus goes empty. And you also refuse that we in Europe are going on a path that is tangible and can be exemplary here in terms of eGovernment. I should now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what you might decide if you want to do something good to this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37805	The amendment tabled just now by Mr Donabauer, Mr Scheibner, Mr De Keersmaeker and others is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Grander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37826	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law of the Federal Procurement Act 2006 takes into account the current EU requirements and recent decisions of the European Court of Justice and the Austrian Constitutional Court. At the same time, an evaluation of the applicable procurement legislation has shown the need for various adaptations. It is new, among other things, that award procedures, which have so far been allowed only in the so-called sub-swelling area, will be extended to the upper threshold. And here I come to Mr Gaßner: As far as the municipalities are concerned, there is a great deal of the possibility that small and medium-sized enterprises can be better involved. The new possibilities are certainly positive for small and medium-sized enterprises. They have said this as if every municipality had financial difficulties. We know that we have financially weak communities; I think we have that in every federal country. Last year, however, the financial compensation has done something for these communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An amendment made it clear to the Committee that OENORMEN and standardised performance lists are to be used for the description or breakdown of certain services. This was a far-reaching wish of the construction industry, both the construction industry and the construction industry. If ÖNORMEN should not apply in a tender, this should be justified. It must not be misused. Furthermore, it would be wrong if existing standards, guidelines and standard performance tables were not diverted on the basis of facts. Furthermore, the desire for better legibility and better structure of the law is taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37868	Mr Maier spoke in favour of an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37893	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In his statement, Mr Donabauer pointed out that the SPÖ had not put the Registration Act on the agenda in the Data Protection Council. – This representation is wrong! Rather, it is true that legislative projects under the Rules of Procedure of the Data Protection Council, in this case by the Executive Chairman of the Data Protection Council, should have been put on the agenda. We are not at present aware of such legislative procedures.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37920	The next speaker was Mr Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37941	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! High house! I am now able to speak briefly about the registrar law and I would like to note that it is probably undisputed that the previous form of census is no longer contemporary. In the future, data for the population, workplace, building and housing censuses from several administrative authorities for the census are to be used under the present new register law. The data merge from the Central Reporting Register, the Education Register and the Building and Housing Register – and, at any rate, only in cases of ambiguity, a survey of the persons concerned by the Bundesanstalt Statistics Austria is planned. I may also briefly mention the disadvantages of the current national census, some of which were really serious: starting with the great organisational and financial effort, the great time spent on the citizens, who have not least led to their annoyance, also: Long times for processing and evaluation – and last but not least, I can mention the high costs, namely € 72 million. This contrasts with the benefits of the new registration law: a huge administrative simplification, a discharge of citizens, a large cost reduction of around €22.4 million, rapid availability of data, increase in the quality of management and increase in the accuracy of the data stored. For the purpose of data protection, the stored data from the various registers are merged without using the name or the social security number of the data subject with the help of sector-specific personal labels, while at the same time complying with the highest security standards concerning data protection. The fact is that Austria is taking on a global pioneering role with the present registrar law. We thus create the legal framework for the rapid, best possible and administratively simple, cheap and the highest possible data protection to carry out censuses of people, workplaces, buildings and housing. I therefore ask everyone to agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e37996	Mr Maier spoke in favour of a further actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38035	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has said that the registration law would not use social security numbers and the personal data. – This representation is wrong according to the law! It can, of course, be used in the individual case – as a result of the law – the social security number, as well as in the individual case name and address of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38072	Mr Praßl is speaking as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38093	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To the Federal Procurement Act 2006 I may say the following: Community procurement law was introduced with the package of the European Union of 30. ==References====External links==* Official website Among other things, new procurement procedures will be introduced and new forms of procurement in the Member States as well as in the central procurement bodies will be taken into account. The implementation period runs until the 31st century. January 2006. The current government proposal is intended to implement these directives, with a very close response to the EC directives. A simplified procurement system is provided for the lower threshold. The regulatory technique of the right of procurement is also being improved. The award procedure for the classical sector is re-regulated in a separate area of the contract law and is completely and clearly separated from the sector. According to the Explanatory Notes to the Federal Procurement Act 2006, public contracts of a total value of €35 billion were awarded in 1999. By using these new procedures, the Federal Government expects very positive impulses for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as a reduction in transaction costs for both customers and entrepreneurs. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In summary and in keeping with clarity, a completely new Federal Procurement Act 2006 will be given due to the variety of changes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38132	The next speaker was Mrs Felzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38154	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The series are filled, so I can now summarize the essential points of the 2006 Federal Procurement Act. The Federal Procurement Act implements two directives to modernise and adapt the legal framework for the award of public contracts. Discussions before or during the Committee meeting were very intense. Everyone has come in with a real verve, and I think we have come very close to a good compromise. It was important for many participants in these discussions to be able to separate planning and execution. That's a success. Especially in the field of spiritual services, it is important to have this necessary condition now created by the legislator. I mean, although a law cannot regulate quality, it can very well create the necessary framework conditions and the possibility of quality performance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In his contribution to the debate, Mr Gaßner mentioned the small structure of the economy in Austria. – You are perfectly right: In this context, it has succeeded in establishing the sub-suspension area in the Federal Awarding Act, which is especially beneficial for those who bring spiritual benefits – whether in architecture, in planning or in design. This means that we have created essentials for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also essential that we stimulate the economic location of Austria, so to speak, with all the means and measures available to us. And we have done this very well, as I think, with this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38197	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the reporting. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Information Security Act, together with the title and receipt in 1084 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – It is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law on Federal Procurement Act 2006 in 1245 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment to Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and others. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an amendment to §§ 155 para. 6 and 287 para. 6,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who speak for it to be a positive sign. - That's accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously the case. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1245. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. (E 159.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr Wittmann, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Dr. Glawisch- nig-Piesczek, colleagues on anonymity of competition. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously adopted. (E 160.) Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law on the implementation of Volks-, Arbeitstätten-, Gebäudes- und Wohnstellungen und Bundesgesetz, which amends the Post Act, the Reporting Act and the Education Documentation Act, together with the title and receipt in 1246 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by the majority at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Constitution and Residence Act in 1247 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an additional amendment or amendment by Mr Donabauer, Mr Scheibner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Donabauer, Mr Scheibner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This has also been accepted by the majority in the third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Volkstählungsgesetz 1950, will be accompanied by title and receipt in 1248 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask the Ladies and gentlemen, agreeing to this draft law to a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[21:03:42]] 17. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 723/A by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Law on Austrian Broadcasting (ORF-Law, ORF-G) (1249 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38396	In this way we reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38424	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This novelle is an ORF law novel to allow the ORF to set up a sports sector transmitter in the future. It is primarily about TW1, i.e. the tourism and weather channel, which is already operating, and about facilitating advertising restrictions, including sports broadcasts. There are certainly judgments worthy of discussion, findings from the Federal Communications Senate, about which you can really discuss. Furthermore, sponsors need to be mentioned not only once, but twice, at the beginning and at the end. From my point of view, the trickle on this novelle is the fee financing for this sports-spart channel. The reason you cite for this novel is essentially aimed at achieving television time for so-called peripheral sports, i.e. sports that are too short in the broad television coverage. This was certainly possible, imaginable and under certain circumstances guaranteed with your originally intentioned application in its original version. As it now looks, as it has been watered down in the Committee with an amendment proposal, it is in no way guaranteed that in the future these so-called peripheral sports can actually be found more strongly in TW1. They have completed the contract for this division channel, supplemented by very imprecise terms. One of them is particularly a thorn in our eyes, namely reporting, which highlights the interest of the people in sporting activity. – This means that you can only argue what is already on TW1, namely tourism information, weather information, information about ski areas, and perhaps other things, movies with sporting activity, but perhaps even bets. So everything that raises the people's interest in sports activity. You have lost sight of the original goal. There is also no fixum of hours or fixed time to report. So no fixed four- or five-hour agreement, as already announced, which will also have the so-called margin sports available. We fear that this novelle will not change anything in reality, that it is also a question of EU law – they are located at the very delicate border where fee financing is still allowed and where not – and that nothing has actually been done with this novelle for the sports that it is actually about. I also have to say that it is very unfortunate that, although it is on other agenda items and materials in the Constitutional Committee, it is very unfortunate that it should be discussed in advance, However, the ORF-Law-Novelle did not offer any talks at all, although this is a very delicate matter, with a wealth of detailed problems and with major questions of principle, such as how to intervene in this very sensitive area between public and private law, where one wants to have a dual system in Austria. And there is no willingness to discuss. We're sorry. Not only for this reason, but also in terms of content, will we not agree to the amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38475	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38496	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Glawischnig said that she feared that through this novel, nothing would change in the conduct of the ORF, show off any sports or sports that are not typically common now and do not raise the quotas, and that the whole law would be watered down. Mrs Glavischnig, if you only have these fears, I can take these fears by simply reading to you – and that is why we have tabled this amendment – a line of amendment. This clearly states that “a differentiated range of sports and competitions is to be shown, which usually does not have a broad scope in Austrian media coverage”. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That can be a minute! That could be two minutes!]] If this is your problem, that you refuse an irrigation, I can expressly tell you here: There should be no watering. In fact, it has also been the sense of these novels that it is precisely those sports of wider space that are not sent by ORF. Therefore, you may be able to give your consent. I believe that with the creation of the sports division channel for the ORF, we today decide to complete the ORF law very meaningfully. I know that the SPÖ agrees, at least in committee, the SPÖ has agreed. I assume that she agrees today in plenary. They are therefore also aware of the importance of sport reporting in particular for these sports. The scandalization by you, Mr. Col. Cap, that reports of the Federal Government in the ORF are alleged to be unlawfully reported in the § 6 ORF Act is completely wrong. You know that all that is presented as reports or as information of the Federal Government or is sent in the ORF is subject to control by the Federal Commission Senate. Of course, it is extremely embarrassing that you face such a mistake. The fact that you attach this to § 6 of the ORF Act, which only serves for calls in the event of a disaster, actually shows how little you have dealt with matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38534	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38557	Mr President. Dear Pre-Revelationary! I would like to say the following: If you want to sell me as a democratic political in order to abolish advertising broadcasts in the ORF for the political parties and to allow only the two government parties to play your advertisements there under the title of information for the citizen, I can only shake my head. [[Abg. Neudeck: The SPÖ has tried 20 years!]] Of course it's not. What you have achieved – if you already want to discuss it, we discuss it – is that you influence a reorganisation in the information programmes. There is a central editor-in-chief, and this editor-in-chief influences theme design, invitations to the “ZiB 1”, “ZiB 2”, “ZiB 3”, there are no more own identities there, “open said”, “press hour”. And if you want to know more precisely, look to Mr Mück with confidence, he will tell you exactly how this is going to happen there. This is still coupled with the so-called mosquito filter, so that you can still be registered at all. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's right! He's right!]] Mr Scheuch also gives me the right. And then there are no commercials for the competing political parties. Only for the government there is then free – the fee payer then has to burn it – the government information. That's where I have to tell you: That's a strong piece. I don't think it's all right and I think this has also hurt the ORF, and there I am now on the commercial side. The falling quotas are the result of exactly this policy in the ORF that you are responsible for. So you're actually questioning the material existence of the public-law ORF: Lowering quotas have an impact on advertising revenue. The ORF may thus also come into a situation which is extremely problematic for its existence. This law seeks to counter it, namely a law that you then passed as a criminal law against the unwarranted former CVer Gerhard Weis. We fought a year over the new ORF law. You have, of course, brought in a lot of regulations that have cost the ORF hundreds of millions, because you were not sure at that time whether you would then prevail in the debate about the new management. You got stuck, there came a new management, Gerhard Weis was gone, you finally got rid of him. In the final effect, however, the law has remained. That's where the newspapers can't advertise, the print media can't advertise. You know very well that the windows of the German stations take away the advertising funds that are sitting in Cologne and everywhere and rub their hands firmly when I look at SAT 1 and PRO 7, they even make a “bissi” small Austrian window program, the rest just cashier. That's really the problem. This law here seeks to counter this to an extremely modest extent. You know the competitive situation, the fight for the expensive rights in the sports sector, you know that digitization is at hand, the competition with the various division channels, that all these are future developments. If one wants public-law broadcasting to exist, as a relevant institution, as an institution of cultural Austrian identity, it needs revenue as a fee and advertising revenue. That's where he needs some quotas, otherwise he doesn't have a fee legitimation. - That's the truth. By the way, the ORF – that is what we want – is to cooperate closely with Austrian private television. There's a remarkable terrestrial, that's ATVplus, there's also PULS TV, but ATVplus is worth mentioning. This should be a reasonable cooperation, this private television should be possible, it should not, of course, be excavated the water, but the real wasters are the large German television companies with their advertising windows. They're cleaning up. It is unfortunate because it would actually be very good if this offered the possibility that this would be possible here too. Because it is reasonable and helps to secure the existence of the ORF in the long term, we will agree, but it remains the criticism of the way you are responsible for how objectivity is violated daily in order to create negative quota development and negative advertising revenue. That's to be criticized. I hope the audience has given a corresponding answer to this at the public council election.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38620	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38642	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! At the same time, Mrs Glawischnig repeated her criticism from the Committee that this change would not guarantee the time limit, the definition of the divisional channel and the assurance that it is sporting broadcasts. My predecessor, Mrs Mag. But Baumgartner-Gabitzer made this clear, I think. How should we do it differently? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How original! Like the old design!]] – I don’t think it would be worth writing in: at least four hours of sport or six hours of sport. I think that would be the wrong approach, because that will vary. It is important that it is clearly defined that such consignments should be such as sports and must also be those that reflect exactly what the expectation is. In fact, one has taken over the formulation from the ORF law, that is, what a sports programme is and what is not, is quite clear, and that is quite clearly sports reporting, a report, a magazine, but clearly no feature film or anything else, as was discussed in the Committee. And I think you shouldn't always see the negative. Here an attempt is made to set up a divisional channel. With regard to fee financing: This channel sharing will also clearly define this, ensuring that the fee payer is in no way transferred to any tourist or other consignment. However, I would like to say the following because the key to the objectiveness of the ORF has fallen, Mr Cap has spoken about the public council election. With regard to objectiveness of the ORF: I agree, at least in part, with the view that, from my point of view, a certain influence is noticeable and that it would be desirable for more objectivity to be provided in the future. Where we differ: I do not think that the public council is the right body and the right instrument for it, because if we have heard today that there has been a vote of 6 percent, then this should give us quite a thought. That's actually a horror. If one has seen in the media in advance in the reporting, that it is de facto a decision whether a certain number of public councils are black or red, and so that any majority should be prevented, then I think: That's a pretty political one. I think we should also think about changing the law in the near future, changing it, repairing it, or otherwise doing anything to define the public council in such a way that it is also set up by the public, and not in advance organizations that are Party-politically motivated, black or red, stand firm and the voters have, so to speak, the choice between Pest and Cholera. I think here would be a little more imagination required. The audience council should be so composed that it is guaranteed that the audience, who is watching and sitting outside the TV screens, will also see whether things are good or bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38681	Mr Morak, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38703	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is an initiative proposal, I would just like to say a few words about it. If I have read it correctly, I think that is a legal guide to the ORF, which in my opinion gives the ORF a new depth, simply because I believe that we are more and more going to have sports there, which should also be a concern for a public-law channel. If I think that we have 12 300 sports associations in Austria, I think the approach that this law has, that is to say, border sports, to show disabled sports on this channel is quite worthy of a public-law station. And I would ask that the green representative in the Foundation Council also sometimes address the fact that one should also represent this, and that should be more strongly represented, because this is, as I think, part of a public-law vision. If you – and I would like to say that once, because it is also a little problematic for me in the media – you pick out such individual editors and, basically, I know, it's crampus, then I don't really find that goal-leading. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Nikolaus is today!]] Even if it were reversed, it would not be targeted, even according to ORF law, which states that the sole responsibility for the program is the Director-General of the ORF, that’s it! In other words, I would ask that you leave the church in the village and not necessarily build up a pressure like this once again on the individual editor who is doing his work. As it has been said here that the entries created by the new ORF law have cost the ORF hundreds of millions, I have to ask for a brief question as to whether the lira is or what is meant, otherwise I would basically say that there is a certain loss of reality in what is really there. I am still in favour today of the fact that in those days it was thought that a second, dual offer could be put on the market, and I think that was also important. They have made the objections that these are the Germans and these stories, I know all of them from the various discussions. So let us say that if we had built up an appealing counter-offer at a time when you too, Dr. Cap, had a right of participation in that direction, then perhaps this would not be the Germans taking away the money from us, but I would say once, then perhaps one could imagine a new access, also another advertising area, which, as I think, would do this country well. There's one thing I have to say, just because – although apples are not mixed with pears – because basically here is always a discussion that is against or for something: I don't think that's right. It is easy to note that electronic media, digital media no longer respect national borders. That is, at the time when Dr. Kreisky was of the opinion, we don't have to go to Germany, that was a media-political mistake, which unfortunately we can no longer make right. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And Bacher!]] We would make him well if it were possible to build something like this again today beyond the border. Luxembourg did it at the time, that is RTL. You know the insider of RTL. That is, I would ask you to have this discussion under a slightly different sign, namely: Media don't know national borders anymore. And I also have to tell you – perhaps one or the other should think about it – that many films that occur on these media channels are copied with the ORF, with the ORF having a relatively small share in the total production. Many are broadcast at the same time, one time or another with a little less advertising. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38779	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38801	Mr President. Mr President, Mr Morak, it is really more fun to listen to you at speeches than at readings that unfortunately took place at the moment. Maybe an incentive for the future to bring you more there. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Some can only read!]] They have meant that it is not useful to select and criticize individual editors. There I have in my head, there is a national council president who once was a clubman of the ÖVP and once, when the microphones had not been switched off, meant that the red Gfries came out of the ORF. So if you're talking about fine manners, how to deal with them, you should at least come at your own door where there's enough to come. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If we look at the way in which the information broadcasts are organized in the ORF, which parts of the political debate are transferred, if we look at what is now being transferred from the meetings of these two days, it is apparent that tomorrow's European debate, in which Chancellor Schüssel does not take part, because he is in America, in which the Foreign Minister Plassnik does not take part, because she is at the EU meeting, but where, apparently, Vice-Cancellor Gorbach is allowed to speak, Minister Bartenstein, if he is willing to come here and talk about, that is part of the transfer, in all that we have, then we already see that the weightings in the question of whether this is of the highest interest are to be questioned. But it's actually about something else. Clubobmann Cap has probably rightly pointed out the reasons why this novelle is now adopted, namely that it is about advertising revenue, about the revenue situation of the ORF. Interestingly, he has not taken the word “sport channel” into his mouth, I think, because that is precisely the debate that is actually swinging behind it. In our opinion, in the last version exactly the obligation that there is a sports channel has already been very relativized. In the first version it was said that a sports channel should be created. The second version, which is now to be voted, has no longer spoken of a sports field broadcaster, but about comprehensive public information on sporting issues and the promotion of the interest of the population in active sporting activity. And of course this is a term that is extremely broad. If you look at TW 1 – I have made the effort to look at the program this week – you will find that the whole story, which ski resorts of Obertauern are starting to appear there daily with the snow reports, of course can also be interpreted in terms of whether this promotes sports activity. And we do not understand why not relatively clear framework conditions, including the question of minimum reporting on sport, are included, because if there is to be an improvement, it must also be made clear that there is more to be transferred to activities than is the case so far. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If this law were to be adopted in this way, it would be ensured that it really is an additional quality report, which is cited here. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about the rest? What if only four are? Is 20 hours not sent?]] – At least more time is involved. I do not know whether the application is so complicated and so difficult to understand when it stands “at least 4 hours”. That's not the problem. That which you allow is also zero hours or half hours a day, and calls it a sports channel if we get 16 hours a day then, where it has snowed how much. This has nothing to do with a sports report. However, this should be the order that, if there is a fee financing, the desired quality will also be ensured.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38873	The amendment by Mr Brosz, Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38941	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e38962	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The main aim of this proposal is to ensure that a fee-financed To be able to organise a divisional programme in the field of sport, account will be taken of. Sport is expanded in the ORF. However, an extension to the full programme cannot be made with this application or even after the decision of this law. As regards advertising, it is clarified that interruptions of sports broadcasts by advertising are only possible if the broadcasts consist of independent parts. The main aim is to extend the programme order to all types of peripheral sports that are well known to you. But above all, it is also a matter of involving and bringing about the people in the sport of disabled persons in the same way. Overall, this is a better information for users. Why? – These peripheral sports in the Austrian media in fact have far too little importance, but are extremely important in terms of social policy, and that is why we think that it is high time for this to be reworked. The following effects are to be expected. The change facilitates the search for sponsors and the use of fees when transferring peripheral sports, better presentation space for these sports. A funded platform for the respective associations is available for their sport. The application is also in accordance with European Community law. Mr Cap, your contribution was very interesting! They have also said that the results of the public election will soon be presented. The participation was not great. You will not necessarily be pleased with the result, but that is what it is in democracy. If you, Dr. Cap, talk about the fact that the government parties have too much presence, then I can tell you that the government parties have a better effect, that is their advantage, that is to say. That is also heard in general, and that is also good. What you're supposed to talk about, that's perhaps the time to send. If I see who in Europe is doing a good, indeed a very good business with Austria, I have to say, I wonder about the genius of Mr. Seiler. He is Austrian, he knows how to appreciate the country, but also to use it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39007	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39029	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The rare case has occurred today that I must or may give the colleague Scheuch the right. Yes, there is. The low participation in the public council election is really something that should give us thought. But it is a logical consequence of questionable electoral mode. What kind of choice is there for the holder of the permit, in some way the head of the family, to issue a bill of vote by fax giving up the full identity? So that's not a choice! There are all the principles of election, I think, really disregarded. It would probably be better to send a smaller but directly chosen audience council into the race. Mr Scheuch, if you are really interested in innovation with your colleagues, we are going to do it quickly, because you are unlikely to have much time to do so. The fact that the legal bases for a sports field channel are being created today is welcome, because sports that are otherwise not in the spotlight can therefore be offered a forum, and this is hopefully also motivation to consume sports not only passively in the living room with chips and beer, but also to operate actively. What we need to look more closely, however, is that a competition channel does not develop from this sports competition channel. That's enough when private betting agencies are driving more and more of their inconsistencies. However, there is an acute need for action in another area. In recent times, we have been flooded with commercial spots, the so-called information on child benefit, the pension or tax reform. In reality, however, the campaigns to re-polate the disasterd image of the Federal Government, with all the registers of commercial advertising being drawn. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No, not!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, these campaigns would not even go through as commercial advertising, because § 2 prohibits misleading advertising. At the same time, however, political competitors and other social groups are prohibited from advertising on the radio, on the grounds that only commercial advertising is permitted. For example, for the social-state people's desire it was not possible to advertise in the ORF at all with this clear statement of reasons. We remember that the initiators had to escape on private channels and foreign channels with Austrian windows. Nevertheless, it has become a huge success, despite all the obstacles you have built up. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that you simply use the relevant provisions of the § 6 ORF Act, which have information on the content in the event of disasters and crises, which are simply misused for self-advertising. Well, this federal government is a disaster for our country itself. But that's not what it meant. And if Mrs. Baumgartner-Gabitzer here tells of an § 13, where her own expert in the committee said that this was not a legal basis, then the chaos is somehow perfect. So you have not made it clear how this has somehow diagnosed your colleague Scheuch, but just for more ambiguity. Therefore, in the following amendment, we call for clarification and in addition to the abolition of the absolutely incomprehensible ban on advertising for print media.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39106	The just-readed amendment tabled by Dr Cap, Mag. Grossmann and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39182	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39203	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Grossmann, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that media-political discussions can always be a bit different or differentiated, however, both, is actually a meat. But these one-student socialist education councils, giving the speakers back and forth from the speaker's desk, go, as I mean, completely empty. Of course, the part of the House is that part, which also works accordingly, and the other part, who does nothing, does nothing and, of course, does nothing in the media. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I say, at least in a small area with this canal, we have contributed to the fact that we are perhaps giving a corresponding priority to peripheral sports. These are those who have little money that may also need a little appreciation. We need this channel, too. Just a little note. I do not think that the whole thing is watered down, so that tourism and weather television is financed by programme fees, but I think tourism and weather television is financed quite somebody else. This is financed by the tourism companies, that finances the cable cars, and that is one or the other. So, Mr Cap, however, the discussion can be seen a little differently. Let's take a look at this! Let's really give the peripheral sports a chance! Live the sport, and that's good!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39247	The next speaker was Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39268	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the establishment of a sports division channel, the ORF has the opportunity to offer a wider range of sports reports, and that will be good. It revolves around peripheral sports, which today are simply too short. In swimming, cycling, in athletics, in tennis, in tennis, in ice-skiing, in handball, riding, sailing and especially in disabled sports, we have such great successes, and they then provide that incentive for young or older television viewers to become, be, and stay active themselves in sports – an offer that corresponds to the ORF's public-law mandate and status. In my opinion, however, there are still two essential points to support a sports field channel, the plus for women's sports and for female sports reporting. The call for greater support and sub- Women's support in sports is never stupid. But if athletes can't show a lot of people how good they are, they won't get any financial help from sponsors, because they want to be transported on TV for their money. This amendment of the ORF Act also concerns the opportunity for female sports reporters to work. Of course, we can say that let the women comment on football and Formula 1. I know they can. For me, that's of course. But listen. Please refer to the relevant answers from incarcerated male television viewers. Cross-sports offer women a multiple opportunity in sports reporting for a very creative profession, in the reporting, in the comment and in the presentation. I therefore ask you not to deny this aspect and to agree to the establishment of the sports sector channel in particular with regard to today's urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39313	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1249 of the supplements. Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. In addition, Mr Cap, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an additional proposal. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new points 1a and 2a. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Brosz, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to point 2. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those Members who speak for it to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. [[21:40:51]] 18. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the opposition of the Federal Council (1164, e.g.) of 4 March 2014 of 20 November 2005 against the decision of the National Council of 20 November 2005 October 2005 concerning a federal law establishing a federal law on the establishment of a future fund of the Republic of Austria (Future Fund Act) and a federal law on the establishment of a scholarship fund of the Republic of Austria (1250 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39394	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39421	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Will you also block the motorway?]] The According to its new significance, the Federal Council has rightly objected to the decision taken by the National Council against the decision of the National Council of 20 June. October 2005 concerning the Future Fund and the Grant Service Fund, because the Federal Government has not only left consensus beyond the party borders, but also what is essential... – No, not we have left him! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] On the one hand, the debate is allowed to see whether it needed a new fund structure at all or whether it could have been achieved with the previous fund, with the reconciliation fund. That's a taste question. You have been looking for new funds and have found new funds to implement the corresponding construction. - That's a fact. This fund is about considerable resources, and therefore, because this story is a very sensitive one and in the past one has always sought consensus with all political parties, I believe it would have been necessary – and that was also the paradigm of Austrian domestic policy – to say: In this regard, we are looking for the consensus of all parties on the National Socialist past. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have left him!]] That's where you deviated from this line. [[Abg. Scheibner: You left him!]] Then: As for the purpose of the proposal for a law, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, we could not go along with it because the purpose was to promote projects that should serve the memory of the victims of the National Socialist regime, and it is stated in § 1 para. 1 clearly states that this federal law “is a fund to promote projects to commemorate the victims of the National Socialist regime and to investigate the injustice that has taken place during the National Socialist regime in the field of today’s Republic of Austria, as well as a future-oriented promotion of tolerance and non-discrimination” and so on. - That's the point. [[Abg. Scheibner: Eben! You don't want that either!]] We have not agreed to this because it has been the relativisation of this injustice, because it is also about the atrocities and so on – and they are not to be relativized – in ex-Yugoslavia to deny the atrocities during the Stalinist regime. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ustasha regime! Horthy Regime! It's about forced workers!]] But that's not our thing. Our thing is to investigate national socialist injustices and what happened here in Austria. That was the purpose of the fund. - That's the one thing. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] The other thing is: If one wanted a critical and self-reflexive view of the history of the National Socialist regime in the Republic of Austria and also a rework of the thought world of National Socialism in the Second Republic, then, in our view, one would have had to continue the previous path and involve all the socially relevant groups, i.e. all parties, and thus I mean all relevant groups outside Parliament, and not just a board of trustees, which consists exclusively of representatives appointed by the Federal Chancellor or the Foreign Minister. [[Abg. Scheibner: You refused!]] [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer:..., and not us!]] This is typical client policy and not processing. That is why we did not agree to this, and that is why the opposition of the Federal Council is perfectly justified. I hope that you will not insist on your opinion so far, but will follow the opposition of the Federal Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39574	The next item is Mrs Machne's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39596	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My word mention refers to the scholarship service law. I very much regret that parts of the Federal Council, as Mr Klubobmann has said, have become a blockade. [[Abg. The ÖVP Deputies!]] I have no understanding of the fact that Tyrolean and Carinthian Members of the Federal Council have also voted against this scholarship law. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: That's great anyway! Who was that? - That was the Molzbicler!]] After all, this law for the first time, Mr Posch, allows us to work out the dramatic events of the year 1945 along the Drau in East Tyrol and Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! There were 25,000 people – for comparison: at that time, East Tyrol had only 35,000 inhabitants and Lienz only 8,000 – who were soldiers, but also women and children who were killed by a totalitarian system, namely by communism in Russia. To remember: The Jalta Agreement delivered all Cossacks stationed between Spittal and Lienz from the English to the Russians. Many, after recognizing the insidiousness of their situation, have thrown themselves into the trauma. Some have fled to the neighboring forests and are still living today in East Tyrol and probably also in upper Carinthia. But most of them were put on trains and transported to Russia, where they expected safe death. I admit that this is a minority compared to the horrors of National Socialism, but I still consider it important to be able to accept this part of our history – especially in the sense of the survivors and cossacks throughout the world who come to Lienz every year to commemorate their countrymen. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] Once again, my thanks go to Ambassador Steiner and Ambassador Wotava for their great work and also to the Federal Government. [[Assured by the honourable Member Mag. Posch and Mag. Molterer.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: (on the ambassador Steiner present at the gallery) You have to praise the Steiner!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I’ve clap at the Steiner and the Posch at the Federal Government! That's right!]] I hope that this important work can now be carried out again after our insistence decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39689	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39711	Again, Mr. State Secretary! Dear Ambassador! Mr President. No change has been made on the basis of the Greens' decision-making, Mr Ambassador. This law is here today in the National Council just as we discussed it here about a year and a half ago. The discussion with the Federal Chancellor at the time was long – as he was personally present – and I must say that I do not need to repeat what I said at the time. It is a law that Mrs. Plassnik and Mr. Bundeskanzler have honoured themselves to their own – let us say – with the money of taxpayers and taxpayers. If I listen now to Mrs Machne's opinion that the cossacks are, of course, being researched, I ask myself: How does she even come up with this idea? They have always told us that the Future Fund is a completely independent fund, where it is decided completely independently which projects are being processed there. Here in the National Council, I am now very surprised to hear that the fate of the Cossacks is to be researched, with the money that the forced workers, I would say now, have been abstained from in a certain way, bearing in mind that we have kept the circle of the claimants so close by the legislator or many have been referred to Germany. But that's the way it is, I don't want to complain about it now. Therefore, in my conviction today, I am still much more solid and confirmed by the decision of the Federal Council that we will not give this law the approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39748	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39770	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that we have already discussed this matter very intensively – thanks to God more objectively than the last time. It is certainly not often the case that I say that Mr Posch has argued differently here than Mr Wittmann the last time. They all remember his words, as I do, unapproached. Nevertheless, I do not understand that the opposition has abandoned the consensus we have sought – as in all these questions – in two ways: From my point of view, it would have been particularly important, because this was one of our positions in the negotiations, that we should also involve the parliamentary clubs or the political parties accordingly in the board of trustees. We would have needed a two-thirds majority to do this. You didn't give them, which is why it's not feasible. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: ( towards SPÖ) Aha!]] Second, Mrs Stoisits and Mr Posch: You know exactly what we're talking about. It is about the scholarship fund that – and it was decided so well – you said it yourself: you can also promote projects for human rights projects, for the future – with this money, too, not exclusively, but also those that concern regimes other than the National Socialist regime. - Also! I believe that when it comes to forced labour, it is a good signal if perhaps even the descendants of former forced labourers are able to carry out research with funds from this pot, conduct scientific studies, why, and how, for example, their ancestors have ever been able to see the Horthy regime in Hungary or the Ustascha regime in Croatia, or that once again, Mrs. Collaborine Stoisits, one considers more scientifically, as it was then after the end of the Second World War, when the liberated Russian forced workers were then deported to the Soviet Union as spies and suspects and had to endure suffering and persecution there. These are topics that one should take into account when it comes to the compensation of forced workers – and I say again: also. A sensible measure! I do not understand why you have left common consensus with this argument, precisely with this argument.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39814	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Constitutional Committee in 1250. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Committee submits the application, the original decision of the National Council of 20 December. October 2005 concerning a Federal Law establishing a Federal Law on the Establishment of the Future Fund of the Republic of Austria (Future Fund Act) and a Federal Law on the Establishment of a Scholarship Foundation of the Republic of Austria (Future Service Act). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this committee proposal to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. In this way, the National Council has, in accordance with Article 42(2). 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. [[21:53:45]] 19. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on amendment 730/A by Mr Reinhold Mitterlehner, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the 1992 awarding law (1223 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39878	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Ledolter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39905	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, the present proposal for an initiative on the award of prices provides evidence that this government is prepared not only to solve problems but also to accept the concerns of the population. It is precisely by taking up the subject of gross prices and also misleading advertising for airlines that these concerns are taken into account by the Federal Minister and this law. I may briefly recapitulate that, in principle, this gross price award is subject to benefits if the offer of such benefit is subject to the rules of commerce. If prices are then advertised, these prices must, of course, be classified as gross prices. In addition, the Ministry's Regulation also lists those undertakings which have their typical services to identify by a register in the business. The airlines, ladies and gentlemen, are not subject to the rules of commerce. In the EU, no regulation has been adopted or is in view, so that, with regard to international competition, the national line has also been removed from such arrangements. The AUA has now demanded that gross prices be marked, because it has been shown that the competitors – from Air Berlin via Ryan to Sky Europe et cetera – not only represent the prices in such a way that they do not have taxes, airport charges, security fees, fuel surcharges, processing and exhibition fees and others, but also that they have quite legitimate doubts about the availability of these advertising lock offers and cheap tickets. Now it is also true that in the EU the Price-Awards Directive concerns only property, but not services, and is therefore a national regulation in the interest of the domestic airline, but above all in the interest of consumers. This concern has been taken into account – a good regulation, which, as I believe, we all agree with as a consensus matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39938	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39960	Mr President. Federal Minister! It was already expressed in the hope that this new law would be a consensual matter. In fact: It is a consensual matter, as this adjustment is a very reasonable one, because this new regulation makes it possible for consumers to: real price comparison and thus the gross price award scheme also makes competition fairer. We all know that in a competitive economy, we simply have rules that give consumers and competitors appropriate opportunities of fair competition. We did not discuss the competition authority in Austria until last week, and I believe that this authority also needs appropriate equipment so that it can comply with its mandate, namely to set rules for liberalisation in order to ensure that competition is fair and secure. I would therefore like to comment on the fact that the Federal Minister is present: I believe that in the interests of fair competition, this authority should also be equipped and strengthened accordingly – and therefore my appeal to ensure that in the future. Personally, before the mid-1990s, I made a consideration, namely: The more liberalisation, the more regulation becomes necessary in other areas – in the sense of fairness and reasonable equal treatment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e39996	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40017	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ledolter presented the subject. In terms of content, there is nothing to add to it. It is clear what it is all about: [[Complementary by Members of the Liberal and Reformist Party]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Now you just need to say more that we agree!]] It is about comparability, and of course it is also a question of competition. But let me make a brief comment on this! I allow myself to make a comparison: As a young student, when I studied in Berlin, I had to pay for a ticket of 10,800 s during my studies, as much as I know. I intend to fly to Berlin in January of next year. My daughter Heidrun made the effort to find a cheap ticket. It was also found at a price of €11 – €11 from Vienna to Berlin! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: At German Wings!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: This is a one-way ticket!]] This would mean 22 € with the return flight. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] The fact is – it is of course very cheap, even with the supplements still cheap – that the ticket tour-retour Vienna – Berlin ultimately costs 90 €. That means it is offered at 11 € and 90 € are to be paid. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 50 € Airport tax!]] Thus, from the offer to the actual price there is a difference of more than 75 percent. That's what we're trying to counter. This is the purpose of this award-winning law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40114	Mrs Resterererer is now speaking. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40135	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have not added much to what my previous speakers have already explained. In the search for this problem, we have come to realize that, although travel agencies are subject to another legal regulation, they do not necessarily comply with the obligation to award prices in force for them. We have therefore proposed, in addition to the proposal for an initiative, a four-party resolution proposal which, in addition to the proposed revision of the Price-Awards Act, should also be evaluated, namely a better execution of the law. We also recommend that the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Labour during the Austrian EU Presidency should draw up a scheme to require air carriers across Europe to award gross prices in all electronic and other media. I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40215	Mrs Rest-Hinterseer's motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Heidemarie Rest-Hinterseer, Dr. Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Mag. Maier, Dr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, introduced during the discussion on TOP 19, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The last speaker is Mr Zweytick. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40250	Mr President. High house! Dear Minister! In fact, it is only a short summary for me, and my previous speakers have already reported very detailed about it. First: It is gratifying that this project is essentially supported by all here in this House. Secondly, In particular, it ensures transparency for consumers, and there is simply more fair competition. Thirdly, It is very positive that it includes not only taxes and taxes but also operating charges. Max Hofmann has clearly explained this to us with his example. That is very essential and decisive. Fourthly, and in the end we agree with this resolution of the Greens, it must be noted that, as in Germany and some other European countries, there will also be such regulations in the future. We hope that such a scheme will also apply at the pan-European level in the future. That is why we too can agree to this resolution in a further follow-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40290	In the word, no one has been reported for this. A final word of reporting is not required. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1223 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – The consent shall be given unanimously. This is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The agreement shall also be unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rester-Hinterseer, Dr. Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Mag. Maier, Dr. Moser concerning a federal law that amends the 1992 awarding law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – The consent shall be given unanimously. The motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. (E 161.) [[22:05:46]] 20. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1027 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Vocational Training Act (1224, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40360	We're entering the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mitterlehner was the first Member to speak. He wishes a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40387	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dual vocational training has proved successful over the last decades and has contributed to the low level of youth unemployment. Especially the last action – the Blum-Bonus – has contributed significantly to the fact that this year we have around 2,000 teaching contracts more compared to the previous year. That is why the system is in its own right – yet it can be improved. It can be improved because on the one hand more than 260 teaching professions in the basic field have brought a certain inconsistency and on the other hand there is still a concentration on few teaching professions. For example, more than half of all trainees are concentrated on ten teaching professions. It is therefore necessary to take appropriate reform measures here. One of these reform measures is modularisation. I believe that what we decide today is very important for the future of youth training. What is to be done by this? – Essentially, these modules are now divided into two years of basic modules, then corresponding main modules and voluntary special modules. What's going to happen to that? – This brings together more or less at the basic level and, for example, puts it on top of the special modules, so that several teaching professions are compatible. What does this do in practice? – There is a greater clarity as to what the information and the selection will be. This means that there is much more flexibility for all concerned. Of course, there will not be any more unattractive teaching professions, but the attractiveness will increase overall. This also applies to the attractiveness for the employer and not only to the job seekers. Overall, the countries were quite skeptical, which was the cost. I still think that's wrong. In the final effect, this will mean a lot of investment in the organisation and the framework conditions, but in the final effect, this is an extremely worthwhile and actually very low cost investment in the future. As I've seen, basically everyone will go along. I think that is not only welcome, but also very useful for young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40430	Mr Riepl is now speaking. He also wishes for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40454	Mr President. High house! „Faire Opportunities for Youth in Austria“, the ten-point programme of the SPÖ for apprentices was presented in July 2002. I think it is good to point out today that point 6 of these ten points called for a flexibilization of teaching, namely the introduction of module systems in training. I am therefore in a strange situation today to thank the Federal Minister for having taken up a demand for social democracy and that we can decide today to change the vocational training law, which, as my previous speaker said, will bring with it substantial improvements in the field of teaching professions and teaching content. We currently have over 119 000 apprentices in Austria. Unfortunately, there is also a teaching centre for those who want to start a teaching. This should also be pointed out on this occasion, especially because Mr Mitterlehner meant that there was low youth unemployment. [[Abg. Head: That's what we got!]] I wish we had no youth unemployment at all. But perhaps this small measure is also used today to return to an image gain for teaching and teaching in Austria. It has already been said that this novel allows training in modules. You can combine between basic modules, main modules or additional modules. The first proposals on which professional groups can be brought together are already in place. At expert level, at the social partners level, a number of preliminary work has already been done. It remains only to be hoped that, in future, the necessary regulations will also come into force and that vocational schools will also fulfil their task. I am sure that they will be able to create the appropriate framework conditions. Of course, it is also a change for some professional school. But I don't think the will should be missing. We will certainly have a reasonable course of action here. Finally, thank you again to the Federal Minister for having taken up a call for social democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40488	Mrs Rossmann is now speaking. She too wishes 3 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40510	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Mitterlehner has already done so, the apprenticeship training in Austria is really a success story. If, as you know, 40 percent of all compulsory school leavers take the path to the profession of teaching, then this is really a large number, especially a number of young people that we must not underestimate. We must also make training as efficient and as far as possible future-oriented as possible in this area. May I have some personal words today! I can remember that at the end of the 1990s, I was still on the board of directors of the Freedom-Economics Association, developing modular teaching. [[Abg. Head: You were?! The Riepl claimed it was the reds! He claimed something else!]] I will then be the State Secretary for Tourism at a press conference on 4 April. On April 1, 2001, together with Fritz Peter Just from Styria, who is certainly well-known for some business chamber function, presented this modular teaching. I picked out the press releases. There followed a call for all the officials involved – both from the Chamber of Commerce and from the side of the union. The module teaching is impossible, the quality is too low. There were hundreds of thousands of threaded arguments why modular teaching was not possible. But we know that politics is the drilling of hard boards, and now the social partners have gained God's thanks to the insight that modular teaching is truly promising. I have to say: To sum up 260 teaching occupations and also to adapt the curriculum accordingly, that is really the command of the hour. Mr Federal Minister, I am really looking for you to pay attention to the fact that the curriculums are unraveled and adapted and that soft skills also find much more entry into the classroom. This means crisis management, customer care management, but also problem-solving skills are needed. It's not just things you think should be taught. Two examples: I hear hairdressers still have to tie wigs during the exam. This is, please, no longer in modern times. Or: The hotel and hospitality teachers still have to flamboy during the exam. Where do you flirt in front of a guest today? Not even in the high gastronomy this is still common! This means that there is really a need to search through the curriculum. The experts, also in the house, know the problem. I really want you to focus on it. However, I am also very pleased personally, Minister of the State, that you are now taking up the pilot experiment with the Wellness-Lehrling, which I started as a State Secretary, as a teaching profession. That's a success. The pilot tests have timing successes. Young people in this area in particular have the opportunity to complete their teaching directly on the spot in the various wellness establishments, and the company has the opportunity to attract workers from the region. I believe that this is also a very important step. Finally, one sentence: One should look at how to redesign the polytechnic school in the future and also integrate it into modular teaching, so that this polytechnic school year is not a lost year for many young people. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40546	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40578	That's right! For the fourth largest group 4 minutes speaking time. That's where we're the third biggest, isn't it? - No, not quite, didn't go out quite. Next time, that's it! I'm a little ahead of my time. I am not going to say now, as Mr Head or Mr Mitterlehner said: We have invented modular training, although it is a classic case of selective perception which we have more often in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You're already excited!]] All right, we didn't invent her. Nevertheless, I think it's good. See! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that it is really an important step to get something like this in apprenticeship training, which we actually need for the school system in the higher classes, namely something like a base on which one can build on which then also the modules that serve the interests, where one can just deepen them or set priorities. I also believe that it is very useful to reduce the increasing number of teaching professions on this path again by saying that a few teaching occupations are combined for a at least common basic training and thus also facilitate a easier change between the individual teaching professions. There is also the possibility of uncomplicated additional qualifications, as well as the possibility of taking additional examinations relatively easily after completion of a teaching or an AHS with vocational training aspects. I think that all this is positive. That is to say, in general, this is a quite correct step, which goes also towards modernising teaching. However, as far as I have seen this, although it has not yet been submitted, there is an additional request for it which has been submitted after the committee meeting, where I cannot at least join you. If I understood this correctly, would you like to introduce additional exam fees for partial exams on the subject area of professional maturity examination – did I understand that correctly? – i.e. fees in addition to the exams in the course examination, for which already payment is made. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner nods.]] - I see you're nodding, so I got it right. We will not accept this motion at second reading. However, this will not prevent us from agreeing to the entire law in third reading. One word at the extra cost. The law now says, it is estimated that the 10 million €, about ten years, will be spent in full development. I do not think that this is insane, even if the countries, as usual, have to pay half of these costs. I believe, however, that in the end it is exactly under the title of “right investment in the education system” and that it is ultimately a good investment in education and training and, in so far, at least a small step towards maintaining a little bit of the location advantage or at least the safeguarding in Austria, which traditionally goes in the direction of education and training qualification. We have already lost a little in the past few years due to a lack of education expenditure. This step is at least going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40624	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40645	Mr President. High house! I am particularly grateful for the opposition fractions for the signalled approval. However, I do not agree with you in your analysis that this is a small step. You, Mrs Sburny, as well as Mr Riepl, have said that. I think it is the first step towards a very, very big step towards a fundamental change in the training system. On the other hand, there is great agreement. If you want to offer young people more opportunities today, if you want to provide them with the necessary flexibility in terms of working life, you should go this way of modularization. There is more clarity, at the end of the day a reduction – not of the teaching professions, but of the basic modules – by almost a third. That's the goal! We will implement this in a proven social partnership manner in the next few years. The cost question has been raised. I am at this extra cost, also in relation to the countries. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Riepl! As far as the labour market is concerned, I can inform you that this measure we have discussed in recent weeks continues to be a good one, namely the Blum bonus. More than 2 000, namely 2 400, are currently the differences between the teaching contracts submitted in the first year of education. This is a plus of almost 5 percent, exactly 4.8 percent. So the flower bonus pulls! These are additional courses for young people who would otherwise only have received a course. I think that's a good measure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40687	Mrs Mikesch is now speaking for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40709	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! With today's decision to create a modular vocational training, we have achieved another milestone: more flexibility for apprentices, more special knowledge for the economy. In the future, the teaching will be divided into basic and special modules. The new system provides basic activities of a teaching profession or several teaching professions in a basic course lasting for at least two years. Then follows a main module for special skills and knowledge. Finally, in the special module, detailed knowledge is imparted for a profession or profession. This makes it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to address the increasingly demanding specialization in the economy and to give the apprentice the necessary flexibility, because modular training facilitates access to other professions because it can be based on the basic knowledge available. In a global economy, it is especially necessary for our small and medium-sized enterprises to look for niches. This requires, however, particularly skilled professionals, a specialization which has ceased to meet the requirements of traditional professionals. This is now possible in the future. For vocational schools too, there will be a better way of getting rid of the demands in the individual occupations. Ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government takes youth training and youth employment seriously. With the apprenticeship premium, the JASG, the expansion of the schnupper teaching, increased professional orientation and the Blum bonus, we ensure that Austria is excellent among the job seekers and at the open apprenticeships in the international comparison. We currently hold 3 264 for the open apprenticeships, which is 1 310 jobs or 67 percent more than in the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of talking: That's the foreign exchange of our federal government!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40754	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40775	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, the amendment was distributed: It is a pity that he was not already present in committee, otherwise we would have had time to look more closely at him. In principle, it is a matter that has been discussed socially. We should not have left consensus in this amendment. You know, there are other detailed problems that could have been addressed, such as exam fees and so on. There's been preliminary talks. We will therefore not accept this amendment at second reading. A lot has already been said about modularization in the dual system. I also believe that this is very important for maintaining the attractiveness of the apprenticeship training system. It will, of course, be necessary in the concrete implementation to see whether the mergers that are intentioned will actually take place. But after the social partners are there in good conversation, I am very brave in this regard. In particular, useful basic modules must be the target. They must provide the basis for the fact that apprentices can also use their mobility, which is undoubtedly given in many areas, in a targeted way. This applies in particular to the tourism and leisure industry. After all, tourism takes a leading role in the number of apprentices, including in the dynamics of development. In 2003, the number of apprentices in this sector increased by 3.2 percent, while in the overall economy there was a decrease of 1.2 percent. In 2004, there was a similar development, an increase of 3.1 percent. This was opposed to a macroeconomic stagnation. Around 12 percent of all apprentices trained belong to the area of tourism. This makes it the second most important industry in apprenticeship training after retailing. However, with all these success figures that tourism has to show, there are some problems that are certainly involved in the field of vocational training, but also in other areas. First of all, the image of the teaching professions in tourism is still not really satisfactory. I would not call it a catastrophe, as did Mr Dinkhauser, but there is still something to be done here. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that commercially designed teaching professions are in many cases not handled in the office and at the reception, but almost exclusively through support services on the floor, kitchen and service. There is therefore a lot to be done to improve the image of teaching professions, i.e. the activities that are actually done or which are to be specified. It is similar in the field of career opportunities. The problem is that often the successful graduates cannot have sufficient prospects. We should take up the discussions that have already been held in various ways, including at the social partners level, such as in terms of training associations or career pools. Secondly, we must continue to deal with the problem of having an atypical image in tourism. We have a very high number of open teaching places. Modular training here may contribute to mobility. However, I do not think that will be enough. In addition, additional funding, which may be quite worthwhile in other areas, is being emptinessed in apprenticeship training because we have an oversupply of open apprenticeships. There are other things in demand, in particular improving the quality of training. There would be a great deal of support. Everything in all can be said: There is no doubt that joint efforts by the social partners should be supported in this area. I believe that this modularization is an essential step, but it must not be the last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40824	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann 2 minutes to us. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40845	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think that this vocational training law is a win-win situation: It is beneficial for apprentices and, of course, also brings benefits to training firms. What is the situation today? – There are very many highly specialised companies that can no longer convey a comprehensive professional image in the current constellation. This modularization increases the degree of flexibility. This increases the combination possibilities, thus increasing flexibility, and this specialization is also an advantage for businesses. A good condition is given because of the clusters that are now available, which can be used here. There will be the basic module with a corresponding solid basic training. There will be built-up main modules and specialization modules with appropriate focus sets and deepenings. It seems to me, of course, that the dual training system, which has proved itself to be really good in Austria so far, remains essential.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40878	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. She too speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40900	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Much has already been said about dual training, which has a very high priority in Austria. Over 40 per cent of all pupils of an age are opting for an apprenticeship according to the compulsory school. That's, I think, really remarkable. You can only say: Career with teaching. The government is making a significant contribution to this. The most recent example is the “Teacher 2006” package. This will continue the successful work in apprenticeship training. I would like to mention that more than 55 new apprenticeships have been created since 1997 and 80, so to speak, have been modernised. We will now continue this good path with this teaching work package, which we decide here today. My colleague Herta Mikeschhat said: Take action instead of talking! I would like to conclude by saying: Actions instead of words! This is the motto of this federal government throughout Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40935	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e40956	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let us not forget that the social partners, the chambers and all those involved in the ministries and also in the trade unions have jointly created this forward-looking and forward-looking training, otherwise there is a copyright dispute. I don't think that's necessary. If we decide a law together, it should be the same. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That was the Karlheinz head!]] No, no! Yeah. [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, everything has already been said about modularization. I would like to point out the youth study, where one reads of the fears of the boys and where it is called “generation of fear. ” 72 percent have a secure job, 61 percent are afraid of unemployment. Some young people say: I, 19, apprentice, don't know how to proceed! That is why I am glad that such laws, as we decide today, are intended to frighten young people. But I also have to say: The youth is not taken the fear by ads. Because you, colleague Ridi Steibl, said that this government shines through actions, I say: [[Abg. Steibl: Exactly!]] Less ads, more actions! If we still get the training fund together with the social partners, I believe it is necessary... [[Abg. Steibl: I mean, the work of Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein does not shine through ads!]] Don't worry, it's true! I believe that the Training Fund is still necessary, and if that comes, we will be happy to decide with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41046	Mr Steindl is now speaking. He will submit the amendment. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41067	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dual vocational training is a success story of the special class. Many countries envy us. 38,000 firms make up about 120,000 apprentices. I thank the companies for their commitment and their efforts in training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, everything has already been said about modular apprenticeship training, so that I can bring in the amendment proposal at once. Request by Mrs Mitterlehner, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Vocational Training Act (1027 of the Supplements to the Stenographical Protocols of the National Council of XXII). ( legislative period) The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: 1. According to Z 5 of the Government template...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41106	Mr Steindl, you only need to explain the request in his cornerstones, in short words, and then he is deemed to be brought in, because I have let him be distributed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41122	Okay. I'll tell him in brief: § 4 para. 3 The last sentence of the professional maturity examination law allows graduates of four-year apprenticeships to take the examination on the subject area of professional maturity examination immediately following the successful examination. Thus, the project “Teaching with Matura” is designed unbureaucratic and attractive for the graduates. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41149	The amendment tabled by Mr Steindl in his speech is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41250	The next word comes from the head of the honourable Member. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41272	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The constant progressive specialization in the economy and thus also the division of labour has in recent years led to an ever-increasing desire for new teaching professions, so that we have already reached about 250 basic occupations. I believe that this innovation of the Vocational Training Act gives us the ideal opportunity to reduce this number of basic professions, to create more clarity and more flexibility and also to give more firms the opportunity to offer dual training. I think there will only be winners due to this novel: There will be more training establishments and thus a further opportunity for young people to come to apprenticeships. I ask – I assume – that this novelle will be approved everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41299	The last speech is from Mr Dr. Maier. 2 minutes welcome. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41320	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, a very special pleasure for me to be able to speak as the eleventh speaker to a matter that will go on stage unanimously. I believe that we can, in summary, but also in conclusion, see that the previous speakers have really put everything to the fore. However, I do not want to miss out on all those who could not be present at the committee meeting to draw attention to a wonderful brochure, namely the brochure “Modisation of Teaching Training”, published by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, for which the editors are responsible the ibw, namely the Institute for Education Research of the Economy. It has been set and printed in its own publishing. If you look at the contents, then You see that first of all, the modalization of the vocational training on pages 1 to 6 is very impressive, then the impact of the modalization on the vocational school on pages 9 to 12 and then the teaching 2010 on page 15. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Mr Cap, you should take a look at this. – It is very impressive what we can expect in 2010. [[Abg. Riepl: Is there a preface too?]] In this sense, I am pleased to have been able to present this brochure to you. I will, of course, agree with this novel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41364	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1027 of the supplements. Hiezu, Deputies Dr. Mitterlehner, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. There is a desire for a separate vote on the amendment. I am therefore going to vote first in favour of a separate vote on the supplementary or amendment tabled and then on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall first proceed to a separate vote on the supplementary or amendment amendment tabled by Members Mitterlehner, Hofmann and colleagues. I would like to ask those Members who have voted in favour of this request for a positive sign. – The sign is given by majority. The application is therefore accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this bill at the third reading may be allowed to do so. – This will be adopted unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:38:09]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1122, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, which amends the Labour Contract Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Land Labor Act 1984, and Amendment 330/A by Mrs Ing. Josef Winkler, Sigisbert Dolinschek, Members of the Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Principles for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas and the Law on the Law on the Seas (LAG 1984 - LAG) (1214 d.e.b.) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 605/A by Mr Mag. Walter Tancsits, Maximilian Walch, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the employment law and the contract law adaptation law (1215 d.b.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 72/A by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Employment Law, the Labour Contracts Act and the Employment Constitution Act 1974 (1218 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41474	We now come to points 21 to 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Silhavy. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41502	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to refer to 1214 of the Supplements or to the Government paper 1122 of the Supplements, which is a change to the Labour Contracts Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Land Labor Act 1984. Of course, the Chambers of Labour – and other people will say so – have a problem just as much as all the other representatives of interest, that they will get rid of members through changes in the economy and through changes in the forms of society. - I'm saying it that way. We were, I think, all very interested in it together and trying to find a solution that could have been a consensus matter. Unfortunately, at the end of the day, we did not succeed in achieving this consensus. We doubt whether the regulation, which is now set out in the Government's proposal, is in fact constitutional. I do not want to go into this detail problem, but I would say that I believe that the effort has been made to find out, of course, that we are also concerned with the fact that those who are active in agriculture and who, according to previous models, would have been part of the Chamber of Labour, have a corresponding representation of interest. The second point concerns the change in competition clauses and the reimbursement of training costs. We have discussed a proposal from the SPÖ Group in the Committee, which is now also the subject of this debate, in which we have called for the competition clauses to be completely removed. We do not think these clauses are timely. Especially in times when workers are increasingly demanding flexibility and mobility, it is unacceptable, in our view, for workers who want to be mobile to be held up by galvanized contracts to be prevented from continuing to exercise their job, namely with another service provider. We also believe it is not in conformity with the EU and with the free movement of the EU, and not in keeping with the fact that we are still applying and finding laws such outdated methods as competition clauses. Unfortunately, no consensus could be reached in this matter. They have made a single improvement, namely the increase in the amount from which competition clauses become effective at all. We very much regret that it was not possible to agree together to delete these competition clauses completely. Another point which seems equally important to me, if not even more important, concerns the training cost-refund clauses which you have now re-regulated and which even mean a deterioration in the current situation, both as regards the time-limit for reimbursement and the possibility to ask, as it were, the remuneration of the worker and the worker. It is regrettable that in times of high unemployment you want to re-establish measures that are against workers. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: And against the educational kindness of this government!]] This is also reflected in it, but above all it is a gagling of the workers and restricting them in their possibilities. And this should not actually happen in times when unemployment has increased as dramatically as under your government. Last point: They create improvements in the field of family hospice, namely the possibility of taking advantage of family hospice for a long time. The criticism that there is still no payment, so to speak, no repayment stock, remains, of course. Nevertheless, we will give our consent to this matter, because we have a positive assessment of the measures, generally in second reading, so to speak, to send you this signal from us. On the basis of the foregoing, however, we must reject the whole matter at third reading. You don't give us the chance that we can agree to individual points because you always pack everything into a package that we can't carry in total.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41538	Next speaker is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. 3 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41560	Thank you, Mr President, I am not going to exploit those 3 minutes, I think. Mrs Silhavy, I am referring only to the third point in your statement on hospice. I am pleased that your group can agree. I think we all agree here that the support of dying people and of seriously ill children is an important measure. The evaluation in this area has shown that there are some improvements that we want to decide today. First: The hospice is now also possible for parents and nurses. I should also like to tell you that Mr Marek will bring an amendment – and this has also been discussed in the Committee – to extend to the children of the spouse or partner. That was also your proposal, and I think that shows that we are quite constructive and consistent when there are good proposals. [[towards SPÖ]] It is also intended to include the care of dying life-mates. Karenz is used for an average of four months. In practice, however, the care of severely ill children shows that, for example, tumour treatments last longer than six months. I therefore believe that the possibility of accompanying seriously ill children for just nine months is a very important aspect. There are also improvements with regard to the income limit, with regard to financial assistance from the hardness compensation fund. The amounts are increased from €500 to €700 of the weighted average household income. I think that this is a very important aspect for single people in particular. Of course, you can still want to do more, but I should like to point out that there was no such thing before 2002. Family hospice is an important measure, an important milestone in social and family policy – many other European countries envy us. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I think this is really an important point of departure to improve the care of seriously ill children in order to improve family care. Austria has also become a pioneer in a dignified death as the fundamental right of every human being. Family hospice is the Austrian response to discussions on death aid in other countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41614	The amendment tabled by Mrs Scheucher-Pichler is currently being distributed so that you have the opportunity to read it. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 5 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41638	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment to the hospice car calendar will be accepted, I can say this in advance. I would just like to refer to the competition clause and the reimbursement of training costs in my remarks. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! First, we could ask the question: What did you think? What did you think when you did that? Before the meeting of the Committee, when we did not know that this was going to be on the agenda, I thought we agreed, at least in the rough, that competition clause and training reimbursement should be largely eliminated; at least to a large extent, I believe the consensus between all parties. After the Committee meeting, an even greater increase was observed in the reimbursement of training costs. You have to imagine that, you have to let it go on the tongue! I think it was Mr Niederwieser – who is not present right now – who meant in an interlocutory call that it was anti-education. - Yeah, he's right. Unfortunately! This is anti-educational and this is anti-mobility. The Federal Government confesses itself quite openly and Frankly and freely: Yes, that's what we want! You have to imagine this – I hardly speak on the competition clause anymore –: Competition clause, a generalization of the regulation, which previously only existed in the employee's law, now applies to all service conditions. The slight improvement by restricting the limit of €2,000 is in no way satisfactory. But I'm fine. We assumed that before the negotiations in the Committee: The competition clause will only be more restricted for all, after a number of debates in the public sector, and clearly limited. However, this result did not come true. It is essentially annoyed by the training cost recovery. They know as well as we do that knowledge in the workplace, but also outside, is much shorter and devalued than it has been in recent years. You know about it in every educational debate. This is the reason for lifelong learning: learning to learn again and again. But what are you doing in the final effect? – Know, say, last longer than ever before. Up to now, the training cost reimbursement scheme has been considered to have been paid back for up to three years and five years respectively in accordance with the judicial law. What are you doing? – They say that up to five years and up to eight years must be repaid. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – They make this regulation possible! They allow them, exactly that is it, and with it you assume from the completely mistaken assumption that knowledge lasts longer and is longer precious than ever before! Wrong! They obviously did not understand the basic assumptions of why knowledge is necessary at the workplace. You know as well as I do that in certain sectors and also at certain levels of professional activity you attend courses several times a year and that knowledge, for example, in the software industry does not last more than one to two years. But you are now saying that training costs can be refunded for up to five years. There are people who maybe take ten courses within five years. And that's where you say: It must be repaid!Unknown term type: "%s".? – That’s absurd, I’m afraid! Of a person in the IT industry, for whom a course he did four years ago is absolutely no longer worth anything, do you require him to pay for this course four years ago? – A absurdity and monstrosity that you have come to realize! Next point: Actual training costs are to be reimbursed. They do not define what ‘real training costs’ are. So far, the judges have said that this includes hotel and accommodation costs and food costs. We do not think that the actual training costs are. More about the actual training costs. . They say actual training costs, but do not say that employers also have the opportunity to cash an education premium or, via general economic promotion, to deduct part of this training, which enables workers to tax. What, then, are “real training costs” – the costs charged to the employee, or the costs actually incurred by the company? – That’s not clear, but it doesn’t matter to you: We do not need to discuss it, we do it simply, without debate, at most in committee listen to the opposition parties briefly! The grooved Schnitzer, but also the stupidest Schnitzer – you have to say that – is in connection with the employer announcement. Even at employers' announcement – that was an absolutely stupid schnitzer! – it should be possible to make training costs repayable. That is almost impossible to grasp! The employer declares a termination, and then training costs are reimbursed? [[Abg. Wöger: Get done!]] You have repaired these groovy schnitzers, but this is only the greatest schnitzer, ladies and gentlemen. With what you're proposing here, limit mobility and educational opportunities! Some of you know that, too. Look around in large establishments where high knowledge is anchored, which, for example, has been reserved for training per year and which actually spends every year! I was told by several people from these companies that the knowledge is no longer being retrieved because the employees are afraid – already now; this training cost regulation has already existed in certain sectors and in certain segments now –, they have to pay back the costs. Even if it is true that only a few have to pay back – what I know, because this is often not required by the workers – even then the threat still remains in the room – and threat is not a good advice for a good working relationship!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41683	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Oellinger, what you here call ‘absurd’ and ‘monstrous’ is no more and no less than the current jurisdiction on the reimbursement of training costs. [[Abg. Oils: No, you sharpen them!]] Nothing else has been implemented by law here. That's why I'm surprised. Your words are to a great extent. We are of the opinion, and I very much agree with the proposal for an initiative, I have already done so in the Committee... [[Abg. Oils: They're sharpening it!]] It doesn't get any more right because you're saying that! This is Judicature, which is the current teaching, for example, that the guide value is provided for the permissible binding period of three to five years. In particular, I can address those who are relatively close to the ÖGB and quote from the standard textbook Schwarz/Löschnigg, from the textbook “Law of Labour”, published in the ÖGB-Verlag. The indicative value – I quote literally – for the permissible binding period is three to five years. . Ladies and gentlemen, this is the quote of ruling doctrine, and this is diametrically contrary to your very polemic criticism, which we have come to appreciate. I believe that it is useful for Austrian workers to be clear when it is legally established what has developed through Judicatur and Teaching over the years. [[Abg. Oillingers: Over the years! I want you to do something new!]] You can't cross-check the ruling doctrine here now. [[Abg. Oils: Unfortunately!]] You can try it quietly, but you will not succeed in this, Mr Oellinger. On the subject of competition, I believe that a very decisive improvement is due to the fact that they are said to be below €2,000 per month. This can be very relevant for more than €2,000. For one thing, as for the other, the medal of course has two sides: They say it is anti-mobility and anti-training – I say that only if there is clarity here will employers also be willing to finance appropriate training. In any event, you have also deliberately overlooked this need for an express written agreement on this subject, and only then will employers be willing to give people a job in the event of a competitive situation; apart from the fact that in the case of competition clause this does not apply if the employee is underage when a year is exceeded or when the competition clause leads to an unfair difficulty in the employee's advancement. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From my point of view, the draft creates much more clarity, transparency, security, takes very important steps in two key areas for Austrian workers and is certainly not what you claim from oppositional polemics. [[Abg. Oils: Do you really believe that?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41794	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Winkler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41816	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the long-standing efforts made to amend the Land Labor Act, I should be allowed to speak for an hour, but since I only have 3 minutes of time, I have to limit myself to a few essential points. On the one hand, I can say that the amendments to be decided on to the Land Labor Act represent reasonable and long-standing rules, which are just an hour's commandment, namely to take account of developments in the agricultural and forestry areas in the interests of workers, while drawing up the constitutional principle of intra-systematic development. We are indeed faced with fundamental problems because of the narrow scope of the Land Labor Act, which causes serious disadvantages for workers. Let me present this using a few examples. Many young people today are looking for an activity and training, for example, in riding stables. But what is the working and social environment there? It must be noted that labour law does not apply because horses are only kept and not bred in stables, nor is there a collective contract, a minimum wage or other necessary labour legislation. There are no appropriate standards of worker protection either. Similar things can be found among the forest workers of battling companies. There is no vocational training for them either. Severe and fatal accidents at work are often the result. There is no insurance in the event of invalidity in the absence of a trained profession. Since 2000, the number of fatal accidents in the forest has increased by 60 percent. 32 people lose their lives each year. The main reason is the lack of vocational training opportunities or training in the area of sluggishing companies. The average sick leave per insured person per year is 3.2 days. This figure is 65 percent higher than in all other sectors. We are talking here about activities that need clear labour standards in order to also have attractive forms of vocational training and thus trained staff for our environment. We must define the appropriate framework conditions and must not leave legal issues in an unreasonable way. I believe that every worker has the right to know, on the one hand, what standard of labour law he is subject to, but above all, what vocational training and training or what provisions of worker protection are relevant to his activity. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Such regulatory gaps may occur in the 21st century. ==References====External links== However, we are also forced to create current working conditions. If we have found rules on land labour law for farmers in the area of so-called breakage, that is, where it was also a matter of defining an independent agricultural activity in the sense of belonging to the SV of farmers, we are also more than required to define and secure the existence of workers socially fair and through modern standards of a modern scope. In this context, I should like to thank Mrs Silhavy for the fact that I believe that you too are interested in the SPÖ in a regulation and an appropriate set of standards. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why I invite you: We also take the next step and together we create modern and future-oriented working conditions for agricultural and forestry workers in the 21st century. 19th century! In this context, I should also like to thank all those who have tried for many years to bring about an appropriate regulation in this regard. I should like to thank Mr Bartenstein for the fact that, at last, such a system is a legal rule in the interests of our colleagues in the agricultural and forestry sectors. Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore seeking approval of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41880	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41901	Mr President. Federal Minister! It is a change to the contract law-adaptation law. As previous speakers have already pointed out, I would like to focus very briefly on the training cost-refund scheme that will then exist. In our view, as proposed in this regulation, it weakens the position of the employee towards the employer. This is, in a way, a bowing in front of employers and in front of the economy. In any case, the whole is anti-mobility – it has already been pointed out – and above all: What are these training costs? Mr Oellinger has already mentioned this. Federal Minister! For example, I know a company that has distributed training for employees and also for third parties, but still left it in the company. There are now internal invoices. In other words, it is possible to indicate, by means of accounting, training costs for the company itself, at what level. Should the employee perhaps get into the situation of having to repay it?- Oh, my God! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] As you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, have referred to this and have spoken in this regard from three to five years' time, I ask: Why not three years? Why five years and not two? Why do we not set firm rules by law, so that the Judicture has to judge itself?- Oh, my God! I think that's our job here. So there are enough reasons to make critical comments. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I have already mentioned the obligation to repay, but there are already some questions regarding the payment of the refund: What's the fee in this case? Is that the gross fee? Are there any partial special payments? I heard, yeah. That's the information you get when you question it. But: Is that really what it means? There's one point more each time. There is now a sudden amendment to the point of employers' announcement. Why did you not present this to the committee where you could have talked about it? This amendment introduces a new form of dismissal. The employer's termination – unless it is said here that the employee has given reason for this due to guilty behaviour. – Is this about a “retirement light” or something similar? At any rate, a completely new employment term that will be introduced as a new reason for a work relationship – and this will be submitted to us 10 minutes before this is to be decided! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! This is a process that can only be described as breathtaking! This forces me once again to say, Mr. Federal Minister: It's not going any more economically friendly! [[Abg. Oillinger: This is not even economic-friendly!]] Therefore: I think we are in good company with those who reject it, because that can only be rejected!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41956	Mr Walch is now speaking for five minutes. Is that right?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e41993	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, If you've listened to the previous speakers from the opposition, you have to say: I think you really don't know what's going on at the base outside! We have not prepared these legislations for fun, or we have put them to the vote today. Mr Oellinger, many workers come to me, who deserve very little and are already getting a contract from certain companies, a so-called flawed contract, in which competition clauses and much more are included! Therefore, we have negotiated with the coalition partner that there is at least an open limit of €2 058. Now, however, I do not want to hear from the Social Democratic side that this is not much, because you are doing the wages – and they are not always the highest. I have to say the following: It is not easy to say that workers should not sign every contract of employment. Colleagues, you know very well that if an employee signs a contract of employment, he reads it before. And if there is a works council in operation, it has a right to participate in the reception or termination. I hope that in those establishments where there are works councils, they will take a close look at this and then, if necessary, say: Mr. Chef, if not, so that not every company does so-called grievance contracts and much more. If one says in the case of reimbursement of training costs, if the service provider cancels, there is no cost refund, and then another request is made which goes in this direction, then I really do not understand your criticism. There are many open borders in certain forms of termination so that training costs do not have to be refunded. Mr Oellinger, who works in the private sector, quite exactly what it means when the employer comes to an employee and asks him – keyword: Modernisation – a course, a training event. What does that mean? If this has happened, the employer usually says: Okay, that's it, and then there's even wage increases. – You may not only see the negative from the opposition, because there are other businesses too. That is why we first made a legal regulation, which now applies not only to employees but also to other workers, but also to certain conditions with regard to the competition clause. As far as reimbursement of training costs is concerned, it is exactly the same. With the free borders and much more, we have truly taken a step in the right direction. But for you, the opposition does not matter what this government does, because even with the most positive things, you try to sell it as negative. – I can only say that this will have a positive effect on workers. Improvements – that's clear – can be done again and again, of course. In any event, we have been negotiating this for a long time and we have achieved a good solution for the workers, and certain entrepreneurs – but we must not throw everyone into a pot – who are trying to gnaw workers can now be turned into barriers. Think about my request: For positive things, I expect you to agree to the opposition in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42054	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42075	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walch, you have said very well here that works councils would be there to prevent workers from being suffocated with such terrible contracts. – I think it is the legislator’s task to find a regulation that is really fair and correct. My colleague, Mr Oellinger, has already referred to the extension of the reimbursement of training costs, to the longer periods now involved, namely five to eight years: This is a clear intensification, and there is still the risk of having to pay back what you have received during training. That's pretty incredible! Federal Minister Bartenstein, you have to ask yourself the following questions if you say it takes security to train companies to train workers: That is a complete distortion of the facts! A company in the competition today wants to train its employees! It is absurd to want companies to train only with this regulation! The point is that workers are only motivated if there is a fair and partnership relationship in an enterprise and they are also strengthened in their identity and in their contribution to the work process, and this is only the case if the training is of course part of this work process. That is why this is a completely incomprehensible process of yours. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to refer briefly to the Land Labor Act, which Mr Winkler referred to, and the related problem. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a problem for the Chamber of Labour that there are fewer and fewer members. We also talked about this several times in personal discussions. Mr Winkler, just one point: If a reform is necessary, the Chamber of Labour in Austria would in principle need reform. At last, it would be necessary to create a federal framework law, so that not every single federal state has its own rules with completely different tariffs, depending on whether one is located in Lower Austria or in Tyrol. In Tyrol, the Chamber of Labour is anachronistically still in the Chamber of Agriculture. This is a disparity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keusnigg.]] Then it was until recently! In any case, this is a single federal rule. Mr Winkler, you have first made your proposal very general and, I believe, well formulated, and in your speech you have addressed the beating companies and similar institutions. We'd be here with you. We have said that several times. But their current proposal includes, for example, all offices whose business objective is to advise. In forestry offices there are also secretaries et cetera, and I mean what you find here is completely absurd! This also applies to agricultural marketing and service companies. I know such companies: These are modern-day, partner-organised companies equipped with excellent employees, who, for example, have a training as a retail merchant or merchant. These are also usefully well covered in the context of the existing Chamber of Workers, and I think it would have been wise to sit at the round table before and to consider exactly where cuts exist and to invest the core of the reform efforts in a united federal strategy. Then we would have supported them too. Unfortunately, we cannot go along with this solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42142	Mrs Marek is now speaking for 2 minutes and explaining the request in his key points. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42163	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should now like to make the following formal amendment, which has already been partially explained: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is specifically the inclusion of the addition that repayment agreements in the case of employers' announcement will not affect the employee. It is also a matter of extending family hospice to stepchildren living in the common household with the stepparents or parents. I would just like to mention the repayment agreements here: This is certainly a significant improvement to the practice so far. I say this as an active works councillor and therefore seek your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42274	This request was also presented in a sovereign way in its cornerstones and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42299	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Act with which the Labour Contract Adjustment Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Land Labor Act are amended contains a point that we can also agree to in a separate vote, although there are still some mistakes in detail. This point I have mentioned is about the support of children who are suffering from severe suffering. The extension from five to nine months is the area which we also agree with, but the original government template only provided for a follow-up of children, children with severe disabilities, children's or care, who live in a common household with the workers. Our request, which I made in the last Social or Family Committee, to involve children of spouses or children of living companions, was not included in the government template. With your amendment, you are now equalizing the lack of this government template criticised by us. I would like to thank you very much for this! I would like to thank the fact that not party-political ideology, but the well-being of children in the introduction of this amendment is in the foreground. But even in your amendment, which is really good, you have overlooked a group of children, namely the physical children who do not live in a common household with the workers. These children can still only be cared for by the parent with whom they live in a common household. The desire of a seriously ill child to be cared for by both parents remains prohibited by law. Even if this pass is changed in the law – and I have tabled a request today that deals with the Care-Reduction Act and the Family Hospice Care Act – then we, ladies and gentlemen, have together for the benefit of the children, but also of the parents something which, when it is decided, can really be seen across Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42338	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42359	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment briefly on the novelle family hospice. Further important measures in this area are now being put in place on the basis of an evaluation. As mentioned above, the duration of the hospice is extended to nine months, because on average more time is required to accompany severely ill children. The second important point concerns support payments from the hardness compensation fund. These are raised from €500 to €700, depending on average household income. This will facilitate the financial outcome of the single person in particular. I would also like to remind you, however, that the employee is fully insured in health and pension insurance during the hospice. The contributions are carried by the public authorities at this time. The claims for clearance shall remain and the contributions shall be made by FLAF for the duration of the hospice. A financial security is provided by the possibility of obtaining at least three levels for the sick, even if no care allowance has been paid so far. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I would like to say that this proposal contains substantial improvements for the caring families. This is very important to me as a Member of a rurally structured district, because many people are still being cared for at home in particular. As an employee of the Red Cross, I also know that these caregivers want to stay at home as long as possible. The family hospice is unique throughout Europe and enables severely ill children and people to experience a dignified death accompaniment in the circle of their family. This novel contains important improvements for these people and therefore finds our full support.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42400	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. He too wishes 2 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42421	Ladies and gentlemen! In the present motion by Mr Tancsits and Mr Walch, you can also see that you do not care about the interests of workers. On the one hand, the Federal Minister demands that the workers be more flexible each time, on the other hand, you put a government proposal or a draft law on the table, which is exactly the opposite. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] If Max Walch says that he understands this and that what is being done for the workers is an enormous improvement, I say: As a works council, he has no idea what is happening outside. If I read a service contract and do not agree to it as an employee, then the boss will tell me – because of your missing labour market policy – that: There are 312,000 outside waiting for this job anyway! Mr Bartenstein, it brings me to the palm tree if you always represent it positively and if you say that we are there in some form polemic. In the past, training costs have been reimbursed on the basis of the purely training costs; according to this draft, however, workers have to pay back the total remuneration for this training, i.e. the proportion of special payments, hotel costs, flight costs and also the proportion of wage and salary costs. Mr Tancsits, you don't need to shake your head now, because that's fact, that's what's inside! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] On one side you go and say: We need lifelong learning from the flexible workers in order to improve their qualifications for professional life, but on the other hand, you are presenting a draft that prevents this from happening. – What you are doing here is pure cynicism, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42473	The next speaker is Mr Keussnigg. 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42494	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is really a bit of a process to assume that the interests of the workers are one of our own. In this connection, I would like to point out, in particular, the special use of our colleague Sepp Winkler, who has been fighting for five years as President of the Austrian Chamber of Labour and here in the High House since the beginning of this legislative period for the amendment of the Land Labor Act, from the outset with the aim of allowing the same legal treatment for the same activities, i.e. in principle care, care, processing, animals, plants and so on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] He does so, of course, in the interests of the employees concerned, because equal treatment means more justice for employees and above all more legal certainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, it is simply right to pursue this objective, because, for example, the competence in the entire education and training system, as well as in the legal and technical advice in a chamber, is to be well bundled. This objective has been pursued by our colleague, Winkler, and for this reason I would also like to thank him very much on behalf of nearly 6,000 employees concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42547	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Just stay with us for two minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42570	Mr President. Minister! High house! We have a government template in front of us, which concerns the agricultural workers who are dealing with a competitive clause on training and family hospice. This is again a very large package, which lays beautiful things under the Christmas tree before Christmas, but in which there are also a lot of things that are changed, and the colleagues have already done so before. On family hospice and enlargement, I would like to say that it is important that this family hospice for children can be used for longer periods of time, which has also resulted in the evaluation in the summer of this year. I would like to thank my colleague Dietmar Keck, who has very vehemently worked for the fact that the Austrians' living conditions are also included in extensions for the family hospice car. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, the criticism from our side is that people are not financially sufficiently insured, even though you can now get support from a fund if you have a certain income. So you have to go to a fund as a bitter and get support there. In my opinion, this is still a very large manko that you have to work on and improve, so that the families who take care of and support for their families in the last part of life to die also have financial security.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42609	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42631	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Since July 2002, there is a family hospice that was and is absolutely necessary, and it was evaluated after two years by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. The focus of this evaluation was on those persons who made use of these measures between July 2002 and 2004. That was 775 people. In the meantime, it is well over a thousand people. Overall, this family hospice was received positively by the workers, mainly women between 41 and 50 years of age, and was seen as a valuable instrument in accompanying dying and severely ill children. There are almost no problems in the business environment. The communication to the farm on the use of family hospice carcinogen is largely seen as uncomplicated by 92 percent. 91 percent of employers also responded with understanding. More than half of the claimed periods were between one and three months. The average time was four months. The longest time was claimed in severely ill children, 72 percent found these to be too short for a maximum of six months. It is therefore very welcome to take into account the desire of many people affected after extension to nine months. I can only confirm this wish from my own experience. Especially in children with cancer, it is very important for parents to be able to care intensively for their children over a longer period of time. Especially in such a difficult phase, the children need the parents, whose care and presence are very necessary, and I thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for this innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42667	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Tancsits. He also speaks for 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42689	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The contributions of the opposition to the competition clause and to the training costs are worth a single actual correction. What you deliver here, ladies and gentlemen, is just too prototypical! For about 15 years now, you have been watching how in some industries and businesses things develop, how employees are connected with contracts, whether they are required to form and so on. They don't solve anything at all! On the other hand, we address the problem, we are making a clear improvement and clarification today, and at once all that is no longer appropriate where you have been watching for years and what you have not done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that this is an improvement is quite clear, because the introduction of the income limit in the competition clause for more than 50 percent of workers is now no longer in question at all. Secondly, the reimbursement of training costs through the exclusion of training costs – and here the abuse has been carried out so far – is a significant restriction on actual training costs, which are specific, which bring their own market value to the employee and may not be specific to the company. You only need to read the explanatory remarks, then you could understand the law! That would be a pure education for you, so you can't pay back! Do it! Think about it, and agree! It is an actual improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42734	Mr Fassleven has now been speaking. He has a speaking time of 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42755	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to continue where Walter Tancsits stopped. I feel that the SPÖ, who has made the Social Minister for 50 years, has not finished applying for and deciding on a family hospice. For 50 years, she has set up the Minister of Social Affairs! We did this in the first year when we took over government responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You are here today, because we are already making further improvements after a short period of time, pretending as if this was actually your further development, and on the other hand, you are also critical that you actually have no payment for it. That's, I think, really a chuzpe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say a little second: I have the impression that most of you have no idea what is happening on the labour market. For years, not only in Austria, the situation is that most companies are in the stronger position. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is why the entrepreneurs are setting up some contracts for the recruitment of employees, which they simply have to sign if they want to have the job, even if they may find it difficult to resolve. We are now bringing rules which are clearly in favour of workers and are designed to improve their situation and to increase their mobility in their interest. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] This is one of the most important demands of our time. But what are you doing? . They stand up and are whimsical and opposed because you do not have the courage to pursue an offensive, modern worker policy. [[Abg. Silhavy: Incredible! That is the opposite of what you want to decide!]] It's a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42829	Next word: Mrs Riener. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42851	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, even if it is already on midnight, I would like to speak to the family hospice again, because positive things cannot be repeated often enough. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We're talking about it all the time!]] Even if the reason for these measures is a more fateful and sad one, improvements should be welcomed for those affected by the death accompaniment or the accompaniment of severely ill children. It has already been mentioned that the experience report shows that the measures of family hospice are received positively by workers and are seen as valuable assistance. Most of them take full care of them. In this novel, not only will the group of persons to be cared for be extended to elective and nursing parents as well as to the physical children of the other spouse or partner, but also the duration to be accompanied by severely ill children is extended to five or nine months. As the amendment tabled by Mr Marek shows, we are very open by the government parties to proposals made by colleagues from the opposition parties. As mentioned above, the Committee has debated this, and we have taken into account the possibility of caring for children who are suffering from severe suffering. In doing so, the government parties – above all my colleague Ridi Steibl, who finally negotiated this – demonstrate that they know and react to the realities of the families. Light in the sense of hope and warmth in the sense of security for the families in Austria, that is and will always be a concern of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42888	The last speaker was: Mr Doppler. He too speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42912	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The reasons why the employee law and the contract law adjustment law should be amended were already presented several times. The aim is to adapt the right of competition to social policy through the exclusion of minor employment conditions and further equality between workers and employees by means of legal clarification. If the opposition in various speeches makes this legal change bad, I think I also have to allow myself the question of how many are really in a private sector working relationship here. For if one had access to the way workers in the private sector were to do so, one would in fact not be as simple as that. [[Abg. Silhavy: (a newspaper article on speaking time) Mr. Colleague!]] And when Mr Riepl speaks about the fact that this is a bowing of workers in front of employers, I think that every reference to employee representation has probably been lost here. [[Abg. Silhavy: (newly keeping a newspaper article in the direction of speaker’s pulp) The edition of the “Kurier”!]] It is a consensus law that enables us to handle the working world in a modern and flexible way. I think it is very important that one also represents that training costs are not training costs. I would really like to thank our Federal Minister, but also our fractional staff, who have taken out the best possible and correct solution in this law. It is only a shame that we do not find the over-group cooperation and joint vote here. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr. Silhavy, read today’s edition of the “Kurier”!]] Because exactly what we decide here today has been demanded by the Chamber of Workers and the Works Councils for many years. Please, Mrs. Silhavy, you only need to read the last journals “consumer” and “work and business” – these are your magazines – and this is exactly what we decide today. [[Abg. Silhavy:... is something else!]] It's a shame we don't all do it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e42996	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the labour contract law adaptation law and other laws, in 1214 of the supplements. Mr Steibl, Mr Walch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Steibl, Mr Walch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a motion for an amendment which is of a kind. 1 C 2 refers. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 C3 and 4 as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Steibl, Mr Walch, Mr De Keersmaeker. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 3 C 7 and 8 as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Steibl, Mr Walch, Mr President. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – The sign is given unanimously. Accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – The sign is given by the majority. The draft is therefore adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Staff Act, including the title and receipt in 1215 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this law, I ask for a sign. – The sign is given by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – This was adopted by a majority in the third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1218 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[23:38:10]] 24. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 607/A by Mr Mag. Walter Tancsits, Maximilian Walch, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Labour Chamber Act 1992 and the Labour Constitution Act (1217 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43113	We arrive at the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate will be held by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits open. His speaking time is probably 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43143	Mr President. Minister! We now have a consensual change of the Chamber of Workers' Law and the Chamber of Workers' Election Law. These are extensions of access to passive voting rights, first of all in terms of time: The necessary duration of employment is reduced to six months within the last two years. It is thus also approached by the right to vote in the works council and corresponds to a more dynamic, modern working world, in which it often also changes between self-employed and self-employed activities. Secondly, passive voting rights are made possible not only for EU citizens but also for other foreign workers. In my opinion, this is long overdue at the works councils. It was created in the Chamber of Labour by pressure from the European Union and the ECJ. You know that we were relatively skeptical and have examined this very carefully, but after the Court of Justice has decided in this way, it will be understood today. As a third point, the proven new form of the Chamber of Workers' Election is specified, the duration of the election is reduced from three to two weeks and the choice of letter is subject to a corresponding strengthening. The Chambers of Workers also assured in discussions that they wanted to design the choice of letters in Austria in a uniform manner according to their official character. All in all, I believe that this is a further step forward for workers' rights in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43176	The next speaker is Mr Leutner. Its welcome time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43197	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a novel to the Workers' Chamber Act, to the passive foreign election law. We will agree to this proposal because it also corresponds to a long-term demand from our side. I believe that the amendment of the Chamber of Workers' Act, but also of the Constitutional Labour Act – and this is a complex – can solve a pressing problem and a better integration of workers in general. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, however, the time has already come for us to take another look at the progress of this matter in Parliament. The background was two proceedings pending at the ECJ, including an infringement of laws against the Republic of Austria. But although, Mr Tancsits, everyone knew – above all you, Mr Minister – that the § 21 Chamber of Labour Law with Austrian citizenship as a condition of electability since the decision of the ECJ of 2003 was blatantly EU-lawful, this government has and has used these government fractions for almost three years in order to bring about a socially sound solution. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] 2003, 2004, 2005 – the Committee’s agenda has repeatedly been postponed or not taken on the opposition’s agenda, with the sad highlight in October of this year that a new warning from Europe with the threat of even financial sanctions had to come to Austria. [[Abg. Big Truck: Threats...!]] So let me conclude by saying: Those who have in mind the chronicle of this project after the decision of the European Court of Justice in 2003 can say: This chronicle was not a glory for this federal government, and there was no fame in the European discussion. Austria could have been better governed in this respect too.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43256	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43278	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leutner, when Brussels screams and gives us orders, we will not always react the same way. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] It is not always so much positive from the EU. In this case, we have examined this very carefully. Now we are going to do that – whether it suits us or not, we have to do it, and we will do it too – and we have immediately taken the opportunity to change the AK electoral law, so that we can see that we deal with chamber contributions, with membership contributions from employees sparingly and economically. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Parent]] Therefore, we also reduce the voting time from three weeks to 14 days. I believe that this is very useful, because it can save a lot of money, save a lot of workers' contributions, because you can make the choice in 14 days, and also, as Mr Tancsits said, by turning to the choice of letter and by giving the employee the opportunity to make his choice in the context of a choice of letter. The money left in this way can be returned to the worker, in the form of education, information and much more. I believe it is important to change the passive right to vote accordingly, and I ask for consent to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43320	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Desirable time: 4 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43341	Ladies and gentlemen! This was actually a steep template from my colleague Walch: If Brussels cries, that means nothing at all, because we will not stick to it! [[Abg. Walch: We are not a yes-sager!]] But if we have to do so, nothing else will leave us! – This was about Mr Walch's statement, which could be supplemented by Mr Tancsit's statement, which said: We now have to make the change consensual, we now have to make the change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] Mr Tancsits and Mr Walch, we now have something to do with the decision-making process, which has actually lasted for ten years. And this is the only correction to Mr Leutner's statement: Not only for three years, Mr Leutner, but for ten years, the Republic of Austria has been breaking the law on the passive right of migrant workers to vote. For ten years, it has been simple and touching, actually for eleven years, since the Treaty of Accession! Now you're gonna make yourself up and say, We're doing something consensual. This is almost touching, but it is not entirely in line with the facts, ladies and gentlemen. It is touching, but does not correspond to the facts; nevertheless: Yes, we are of course in favour of these changes being made. There's a small wormhead drop with it. [[Abg. Steibl: Always!]] Yes, almost as always; unfortunately! But that's related to your legislation. [[Abg. Steibl: No, that depends on your...!]] In the field of migrant workers, a change is being made that is necessary, as you say, and that you can no longer deal with, otherwise the Republic of Austria would have to pay punishment. It has also been pointed out. But that does not mean that you should therefore restrict the passive right to vote in the case of the unemployed – and these are also represented by the Chamber of Labour. Here, however, the choice options, the passive options, are restricted. That is why I am bringing you the following amendment tabled by Mrs Oellinger, my friends, to the motion for a resolution (607/A) by Mrs Mag. Mr Tancsits, Mr Walch, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission The National Council wants to decide: The application for a law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: Article 1 Z 2 reads as follows: ‘2. § 21 Z 2 reads: ‘2. in the last two years at least six months, and “””In view of the advanced period, I am saving myself a further explanation. It would have been nice if you had done what you had announced to us before the committee – that you are willing to negotiate it as well, or that you would have made an amendment here in plenary together with the opposition parties. You do not, and with that you are worsening the possibilities for unemployed members or former workers' members. This is not good despite the consensual approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43416	The amendment tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Oellinger, Mr Van Miert, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Walter Tancsits, Walch, colleagues are sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43483	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43504	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly: The change in the Chamber of Workers Act entails the reduction of the maximum term of election from three to two weeks. Today, as already mentioned, we also decide on the extension of the group of people for the passive right to vote. It is new that now non-Austrian and non-Austrian women can vote if they are members of the holding for at least six months or are members of the chamber. In other words, the workers from the EU and third countries with which there is an agreement on non-discrimination in terms of working conditions are treated as the Austrian citizens with regard to passive voting rights to the Chamber of Labour and to the Works Council. With this innovation, Austria is taking a further step towards a common Europe. In particular with regard to the Presidency of Austria, We show that we are Europe fit for the first half of the coming year 2006.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43541	The last speaker was: Mr Dobnigg. 3 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43562	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying that today, after years of demands by the SPÖ and the trade union, the passive Chamber of Workers' Elections for Foreign Workers will finally and unanimously be established by law. However, a wormhead drop is that the ÖVP and its colorful coalition partners have delayed this decision for a very long time until it was no longer possible to prevent it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: And what did you do about the SPÖ in 30 years?]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are known for such delaying and humanitarian maneuvers in social policy matters to the detriment of many people, and you are also world champions in them. I just remember your years of blockade policy in accident pensions, in pension adjustments or in heating aid. It is also apparent that, without the two EU infringement proceedings against Austria, which decided that the exclusion of workers from Member States of the EU, the EEA or third countries with which there is an agreement on non-discrimination in terms of working conditions would not have been prepared for this amendment. Vote only shortly before the Austrian EU Presidency It has long been necessary to implement this. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to be adopted today extends the right of passive voting to all workers regardless of nationality, taking into account the corresponding international obligations of the European Social Charter Article 5 and the Convention of International Labour Organisations. I am pleased that Mr Walter Tancsits in the Committee agreed that the Chambers of Workers had already introduced a very modern electoral right in the 1990s. However, I would like to say very clearly and clearly: Not only the right to vote of the AK is very modern, but the entire Chamber of Workers does excellent, competent and very helpful work for our workers. And it would be more decent and fair if you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, would also appreciate this excellent work and let down on the legal employee representation in the future, which has been doing for years.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43610	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 1217 of the supplements. Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled an amendment to Rule 1(2). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – The sign of approval is given by majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given. – This sign is also given unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[23:53:59]] 25. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 11/A by Mr Mag. Barbara Prammer, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the Parental Protection Act 1979, the Father's Care Act and the Labour Contracts Act (1216, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43689	We now reach 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate is opened by Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43716	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! This application, which is now available, is based on the fact that there should be an actual right to parental leave for all staff up to the completion of the seventh year of the child's life. This request is intended to eliminate, in particular, the injustices currently experienced in parental life, namely that it depends on how large a business is or how long an employee has worked in a farm. On the other hand, a major obstacle is to be overcome, namely by bringing the complaint away from the employee or from the employee to the employer or to the employer, because we believe it is so that the staff members are always sitting on the shorter branch and therefore perhaps often do not sue their right. In connection with this, I would be interested, Minister, if there were any figures on how many of the employees actually use the parental leave. In the Committee, this measure was indeed praised by Mr Steibl on all measures. [[Abg. Steibl: That's it! That's right, too!]] I would also like to suggest, Mrs Steibl, that before you come back to all the government's apparent achievements, you should consider why there is such a low birth rate in Austria, although you seem to be making such a great family policy. I would really advise you: Rethink your family policy! We currently have 1.3 children per woman. This is really a very low birth rate. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How many kids do you have?]] Perhaps it would also be better to actually put in place measures to reconcile work and family rather than start expensive advertising campaigns that say: Mutti, thank you for having time for me. Or this wish-child campaign, which really completely and completely passes through the reality of the people in Austria, the reality of life of the people in Austria. It creates a maximum of a bad conscience. This ideal image, which draws your advertising campaigns, can only be achieved very, very bad or almost not, and they also draw a very conservative woman image that we cannot and do not want to represent from the SPÖ. Role images are being demonstrated, of which we actually thought we have been away for a long time. For the final sentence, I would like to borrow from Mr Marizzi, and I really advise you: Instead of listings, please finally put action!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43775	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43797	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker presented a panel on the speaker's desk.]] We are now discussing the negative report from the Committee on Budgets, and I am actually not very happy, but grateful that we can show that this negative report is necessary because the government has acted. If you see here: Right to part-time work up to the seventh year of life. - We've done this. ==References====External links== ==References== The risk of complaint should be borne by the employer. - We did that too. Workers should be able to start part-time when employers bring an action. - We did that too. Protection of termination for parents in parent age. There is protection of termination until the fourth year of the child's life, after which we have agreed on the protection of reasons. This can be read in several books, which you can get in the bookstore, so not only propaganda by the government. Part-time employment: A maximum of 60 percent of the normal working time can be freely agreed from our side. I believe that the request of the honourable Member may be made. Prammer and Heidrun Silhavy side of the government is already done. Madam President Prammer, once Minister, would have done this in her time It is possible to 30 years of intensive women's policy on the part of SPÖ have not changed anything either. We did something: Actions instead of words.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43845	Mrs Mandak is the next speaker. She's got 4 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43866	Mr President. High house! Mr Steibl! We are very pleased that you have kept the positive achievements in green; we appreciate that. The positive things done, you have designed green. We're glad that we're out like this to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is very interesting about this request that it carries point 11/A. The request has been here for three years now, but at least – and this is what you learn in this House – it is already a success of parliamentarianism that we can discuss here at all. This seems to be a merit of the Committee, because in the Family Committee we are just adjourning. If you want to experience this, come and listen to it. Applications are not rejected, that is not what the government parties are doing at all, but they are delaying. It is now, after three years, already very late and it is also very late from the time, namely just 24 o'clock, but at least we can discuss this request. We Greens support the SPÖ's proposal here, because we believe that it is simply not the way Mr Steibl has tried to clarify that all women and men are entitled to part-time work. We know that 94 percent of the companies in Austria have fewer than 20 employees, and thus these employees have no legal claim. There, 29 percent of workers work there, while the rest of employees average an employment period of 1.8 to 2.7 years. They therefore fall below the threshold of three years of minimum membership for operation. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] By calculating these factors together, this means that currently about 71 percent of workers do not have a right to part-time work. We believe that it is high time for these 71 percent to benefit, so we support the request. So we will not vote in favour of the negative committee report, and it is very a pity that we can only vote on the proposal today, after three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43922	The next speaker was Mrs Rossmann. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43943	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would remind the ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy that they agreed with us in April 2004 to the truly forward-looking and unique request to resolve the issue of parental leave. You agreed at the time because you said it was a first big step and it is to be welcomed. And I also say that this law, which we passed in April 2004, has the necessary balance – namely the Balance on the one hand, to allow the parents part-time, on the other hand, but also the micro-enterprises – and on the other hand – are not to be taxed in addition. Mr Matznetter has now returned to the House. Today we have not actually observed you all day and all evening, but you are coming at the right time, namely to clarify the women in your own ranks, and therefore I would ask you that this law, which is now in place here, is not balanced and that the small businesses would be seriously burdened. That is why this law is not approved by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e43975	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 12216 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[00:04:04]] 26. Point First reading: Request by Dr Josef Cap, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Act amending the Constitution of Labour (677/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44025	We'll get to 26. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Christ. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44052	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! I wish I could rest! High house! With the proposal in place and thus at first reading, the Social Democrats intend to delete more precisely in § 133 and here in paragraph 6 in particular. This paragraph 6 deals with restrictions and grounds for exclusion for the various paragraphs, e.g. those relating to the institutions of the workforce. The Sections 78 to 88 deal with the Works Council meeting, the Central Works Council. §§ 110 to 112: This is about participation in the Supervisory Board, opposition to the management of the economy, about the State Economic Commission and also about parts of § 109, as in paragraph 3, about participation in business changes. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about theatre companies and, in particular, about the appointment of the Supervisory Board with works councils or with representatives sent by the Works Council to the Supervisory Board and about the active participation in economic matters, in particular and directly concerning the employees. On the basis of the positive experience from the area of the Bundestheater, where this topic is fortunately none, we want to go to the Intensifying discussion, all political groups invite to do so and request support in the request for the deletion of paragraph 6 of § 133 ArbVG. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44091	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44113	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Christ has addressed the subject. If injustices exist there, we will, of course, discuss this in detail in the Committee and we will also reach an agreement. Because time is so advanced: Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44137	Mr Zinggl spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44158	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, in fact it is strange that in the federal theatres the central works councils have seat and voice in the Supervisory Board and in the state theatres do not. This applies not only in the national theatres, but also in the Volkstheater and Josefstadt. This is certainly why these Landestheaters are being run by the country and, according to the Bundesorganisationsgesetz, the Bundestheater have just been distributed and therefore have independent responsibility in the management. Nevertheless, the times have changed and it is not to be seen that only because of these legal differences due to the exclusion should not also the works councils of the Landestheater, the Volkstheater and the Josefstadt have a seat in the Supervisory Boards. I very much expect that this will be discussed in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44186	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 677/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[00:08:01]] 27. Point First reading: Request by Members Gerhard Steier, colleagues on a federal law amending the 2002 Waste Management Act (700/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44225	==References== Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Steier. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44252	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal by the SPÖ is based on the following: It is essential to achieve significantly more transparency and to bring light into the dark of waste management. In this area, there has been a system of abuse supervision for collecting and recycling systems close to the budget since 2002. After each change in tariffs, at the request of a member of the abuse control board, or every three years, it is necessary to carry out inspections and to draw up an opinion. The fact that these control instruments are not very efficient has already been noted at the time of their development. As the experience of recent years shows, the initial scepticism was more than appropriate. Since its constitution in 2003, the Council of Abuse has only done a few times. So far, there is only one opinion. This report on the ARA system had to be commissioned on the basis of tariff changes for 2002 and was completed in 2005. So now the question is: What happens to these results, the findings, the experiences of a €600 000 study report? – Obviously little, ladies and gentlemen, because such opinions are only accessible to an exclusive group of people, neither Parliament nor the general public has the opportunity to be informed about the content and conclusions. The members of the Council of Abuse are required to remain silent by law. Of course, the ARA management has no interest in publishing this critical content, and the Minister of the Environment, as the supervisory authority, avoids answering sensitive questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Critical is turned under the carpet. It is not understandable whether and how detected maladies are corrected. And this whole trend is watered down even further by the clear easing of abuse supervision, as the government has last decided by the 2005 Environmental Adjustment Act. In the future, only every four years instead of every three years, an opinion must be drawn up and three instead of a member must order an abuse report. Ladies and gentlemen, our request concerning amendment of § 35 of the AWG therefore has the intention to publish such opinions on the work of the collection and recovery systems in an appropriate form in future. This will ensure greater transparency, especially in the field of monopoly-like ARA system history, which has been demanded by experts for years. In this sense, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44301	The next item is the report by Mr Deputies Head. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44322	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have set up a control system for this ARA system in the context of the waste management sector, this Council of Abuses has now been sent to this advisory board, which has been addressed by Mr Steier. In doing so, this advisory board, which has the task of monitoring and analysing and preventing abuse, has the possibility of analysing and showing any abuse on the basis of this opinion, so that it may be possible to do so. But it is already legitimate for the companies participating in this system to participate in the In part, they are also in competition with each other to ensure a certain degree of protection of their data, which they must provide for these opinions, and to leave the advisory board to carry out the evaluation. So I think there is a reasonable system here, but I do not have a problem with it – and we can also discuss this in committee – that a summary of this opinion is also made available to the public, but it would not be appropriate to simply place individual data or even the entire opinion in the public, because there is certainly data that is worth protecting here. I can imagine that making a summary available to the public, but we can discuss this with each other in the course of the Committee's deliberations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44354	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44376	Madam President. High house! The competences and tasks of this Advisory Council, which has been set up for this abuse supervision, are very extensive. The members who are sent to this advisory board do not come from any hidden institutions, because these are representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers, the Presidents of the Chamber of Agriculture, representatives of the Municipal Federation, the Federal Ministry and also representatives of two federal states. This Advisory Board shall, on the one hand, select the members of the expert body and, on the other hand, draw up proposals on the basis of the opinion that is now being drawn up to take action to eliminate the abuses raised in this opinion. And these measures – and this is clearly already stated in the current bill – are to be published on the website. We think that a general publication of these opinions and the whole content is not appropriate because it is presented in detail and can even be misleading. That is why we reject the request in the form it is now presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44406	The next item is the speech by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44427	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is surprising that Parliament's control is perceived as inappropriate. A private monopoly without public control is otherwise against your principles. If it's too complicated for whom? We can only say that this ARA system is problematic in that it does not cause waste to be avoided. Consumers pay relatively high contributions. These are held in a fund, which is always prepared, and which is not used in any other way. There is no incentive to avoid waste. The bastards go over, the one-way booms. That's not really a good condition. We will therefore continue to support this request in the Committee and, if necessary, supplement it with our contributions. In addition, I am also quite concerned that 50 percent of the fees on the company side do not pay any fees at all, but the Ministry of the Environment refuses controls. There must certainly be something to happen now, because waste cannot become a business for individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44460	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 700/A to the Committee on the Environment. [[00:17:16]] 28. Point First reading: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Erwin Niederwieser, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 6. (702/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44499	We arrive at the 28th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Ddr. Decliner. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44526	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal by Niederweiser, Mr Eder, concerns a change in the road traffic regulations, particularly those which have these new transport control facilities, in which very intelligent systems can be used to measure flow volumes of traffic, but also, where appropriate, noise pollution and pollution. It would be appropriate and consistent with the state of the art that these installations may also be automatically imposed on the basis of a Regulation if limit values are established. The Federal Government and the Hoge Haus have made similar arrangements in a similar matter in the Immission Protection Act air some time ago, by which these traffic control measures can be used for such purposes. There are, however, some decisive differences. We do not want to make it so far that it must be a rehabilitation area in which people get sick so that such measures can be taken, but in general according to the road traffic regulations wherever limit values are exceeded. What you have decided only applies to areas of rehabilitation. In addition, what has been decided here and is not yet valid, because the Federal Council has objected only to speed limits and not to other measures such as those mentioned in the IG-air. We therefore think that it would be possible to adopt a clear improvement in the sense of high-level roads that are heavily burdened by preventive measures. We ask you, after discussion in the Committee, to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44566	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44634	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Niederweiser, I still believe that your request has already been dealt with, because we did on 16 May. In the last plenary session in the Environmental Adjustment Act in Article 4 of the IG-Luft, it was decided that transport impact systems should also be used for Immission Loads and that transport should be regulated accordingly. Sorry, you voted against it at the time. Perhaps you should now make the request so that you can also agree with this good idea in the future. Otherwise, I think it would be better for you to withdraw the request because the government has long responded to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44658	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44680	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That telematic systems should definitely be used in the sense of greater road safety, in the sense of more neighbouring protection, whether it be noise, or air, is clear. Mrs Achleitner, you have, in part rightly, pointed out that we discussed matter at the last meeting, only my problem is that the regulations you have made in the IG air are not sufficient to act really preventively. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Where is your club tour at all?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great! They're three hours there for a urgent one and then they're going to sleep!]] It has also explained to Mr Niederwieser that it is a slightly different matter that he wants to deal with than you have addressed, namely that one should act more prophylactically and not only when reaching certain limits, or when these limits have already been exceeded for months or six months. It is about using telematics prophylactically, preventively, minimizing in terms of protecting the population. And this concern, my Ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of you should support with all your heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44727	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 702/A to the Transport Committee. [[00:22:49]] 29. Point First reading: Request by Mr Kurt Eder, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the motor vehicle law in 1967 (722/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44769	We'll get to the 29th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44817	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am once again concerned about the counting rule in student transport in Omnibussen. As we know, it is currently the case that three children under 14 years of age should be able to sit and transport on two seats on the bus. As a transport speaker, I have received a unanimous request from the Landestag of Upper Austria. The Upper Austrians have been particularly concerned about this issue, and the Members of the Landtag have sent us this request so that we can deal with this issue here in the House. I therefore believe that it is reasonable and good to deal with this issue, which serves road safety, here in the house. It is also an important question, in particular, because it concerns the transport of students in Omnibussen, and above all the safety of children should be an important concern for us. And so I believe that we should discuss this issue with all the financial problems, of course, with all the issues raised to us from the countries, once again in the Committee. I am convinced that we will certainly succeed in finding a reasonable solution to the safety of students, which does not mean that the transports, as they are currently being carried out, are in principle unsafe. But if we can contribute more to safety, especially to road safety, then we should do so. I believe that the other groups will also be sure to devote themselves to this issue in the Transport Committee and address this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44854	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 722/A to the Committee on Transport. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:25:18]] Requests for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e44887	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry by honourable Members Mag. Lunacek, colleagues in the field of illegal trade in Austrian sightings and many years of foreign and internal control failure, as well as the request made by Members Dr. Cap, Dr. Hlavac, colleagues on illegal trade with regard to sightings. As already announced, the applicants of the two applications will first justify the same, the subsequent debate will be conducted under one. Both requests have now been distributed to all MEPs. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request by Dr. Cap, Dr. Hlavac and Comrades, pursuant to § 33 GOG on the establishment of an investigation committee on illegal trade with regard to sight-marking The signed Members request that an investigation committee be set up in relation to V: 5, S: 4, F: 1 and G: 1. Subject-matter of the investigation: The legal and political responsibility of officials of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs in connection with the illegal exhibition of sight marks by Austrian representatives abroad, in particular with regard to the lack of exercise of supervisory duties by the responsible branch ministers and with regard to the omission of countermeasures by the branch ministers after knowledge of the inconspicuous errors. Investigation order: The Committee of Inquiry shall, by collecting oral and written information and by taking into account the dossiers of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, clarify the following questions: To what extent employees of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs were involved in the visa affair or were involved. are; Therefore, adequate and effective control mechanisms were missing that would have prevented the trade in visas; When the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ferrero-Waldner, first learned of the accusations concerning trade in visas; When and in what form the charges relating to trade in visas have been followed by the relevant resorts; What steps have been taken to clarify the accusations and to combat trade in visas have been taken or have been taken by the parties concerned. ==References====External links==* Official website their officials shall be responsible for doing so; It is for this reason that the information given by German authorities has only led to concrete investigations and measures in Austria, although concrete accusations regarding visa trade have been in the room for several years, Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner was made in writing in 2001 and in 2002 personally aware of the ruling abuses and had already been returned to the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2001; whether and in what form there were attempts to cover up and who is responsible for them in the affected resorts; Which is why the accusations in respect of trade in visas, by 2001 at the latest, have not been distanced from the practice of destroying the documents on approved visa applications after a year; To date, therefore, the sectors concerned have not taken the necessary measures to prevent illegal trade with sightmarks. Reasons: Although new, inconceivable details in the visa affair have now become known through the media for weeks now, the Federal Government, first and foremost Foreign Minister Plassnik, insists that - if at all - it deals with unfortunate individual cases. Last week it became known that in addition to the Austrian consulates in Budapest, Belgrade and Bucharest, where thousands of illegal visas were apparently issued against pay in 2002 and 2003, Austria's representation in Kiev is now also in the Fachder's visa. Within one year, 28,000 illegal visas were issued in Kiev. A Foreign Minister spokesperson suggested that she should not exclude “the possibility of individual employees’ mistakes”. However, all previous controls did not promote anything” (Der Standard, 1. 12. ==References== As the foreign minister continues to claim, it is actually only “a few black sheep ”? (Kurier, 2. 12. ==References== This official representation on the part of the government is not to be kept. “Austria grants 400,000 visas annually. If it is true that in recent years at least 40,000 sightings have been damaged to persons who have thus entered and resided in the Schengen area, a pack of black sheep must have been active“, for example, the courier in his editorial (Kurier, 2. 12. ==References== “The standard” quoted from an investigative document that spoke of a “criminal network” in officials at foreign representations (Der Standard, 1. ==References== The Federal Government's declaration, in particular those concerned, is large: Why could illegal trade with sightings remain undetected for so long? Why did the internal control mechanisms in the Foreign Office and the Ministry of the Interior fail completely? Why did evidence of trade in visas remain manifestly unconsequenced? Were you trying to cover up the trade in visas? Why were the investigations of the judicial system initially without results? Why could illegal trade with sight marks not be terminated until today? Why do Belgrader Visa- Dealers continue to have connections in Austria's Embassy (Kurier, 6. 12. 2005)? It is now known that Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner had already been made personally aware of the alleged trade in visas at the Austrian Consulate in Belgrade in 2001 and 2002. At the time, however, she assured “that everything was fine” (News 42/05) and that there was no evidence of wrongdoing. What measures the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has actually taken to examine the accusations are still unclear. In an interview, Manfred Ortner, the Inspector General of the Foreign Office, said that no one had asked him to inspect or investigate the Belgrade Embassy for visa trafficking (Pro-7-Austria, 2.11. ==References== According to news, the general inspector made sure that an employee who wanted to reveal abuses was transferred to Vienna, because her working style proved to be “decisive, not customer-friendly, not communicative and inflexible” (News 45/05). Media reports also showed that another staff member of the Foreign Office had informed his superiors of the offer to continue the visa conduct in Belgrade, as under the now detained general consul, in Serbian extradition detention, Klaus H., following the change of the General Consul from Belgrade to Budapest, who is now detained today. He had also informed his preliminary laws that a close confidant of the now detained general consul “sacred” had brought visa applications to the Belgrade Consulate (News, 45/05) for the foreign office today. Despite various indications given internally and externally (e.g. media reports from 2003 and 2004 concluded that at least there was a suspicion that illegal trade with sightings was also conducted by the Austrian representative authorities in Kiev and Lagos) the trend-setting trade with sightings was supposed to be unnoticed and all internal reviews were supposedly ineffective. In this context, another recently known issue needs to be clarified: the visa applications approved by the Foreign Office will be destroyed after only one year. This practice was continued, although the suspicion of fishing trade proved to be in the room. Contrary to all the demands of the Foreign Office to be interested in a complete investigation, no steps have apparently been taken to secure the evidence relevant to the investigations. So the head, the expert committee set up by Foreign Minister Plassnik, said on 14 May. November 2005 on the question of whether the suspension decree of the Foreign Office should not at last be put out of effect: ‘One will probably have to stop there until the Commission takes up its activity’ (Kurier, 14. 11th@item: inlistbox ==References== It is clear, therefore, whether authorities and the expert committee now set up by Foreign Minister Plassnik still have any documents to prove any illegal activities. Former investigations of the judicial system had to be carried out – according to News magazine on 1st January. 12. 2005 – due to the fact that the revision of the foreign office could only find more than fifty visa acts (News, 48/05, 1. 12. ==References== In April 2004, when there was a recent indication in the media of irregularities in visa traffic at the Austrian Consulate in Belgrade, the foreign office had rejected all accusations again. Between colported ads in Serbian media in which Schengen-Visa had been offered, and the Austrian Embassy has no connection. This is the result of an internal review. In addition, all Austrian representation authorities abroad would be regularly inspected in an internal manner, taking into account, of course, any Note on any irregularities (OTS103, 15.4. ==References== When the use of visas in German embassies in Eastern Europe became known, it was said from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Interior that such abuse was only very difficult in Austria, because one has a very different visa system and is much more restrictive (APA 270, 17.2. ==References== However, as has already been pointed out, it was precisely the investigations of the German authorities in the field of visa trade, which brought clear indications of the involvement of Austrian representation authorities and, after all, forced the Austrian authorities to act. An active diplomat from the consular service, a retired staff member of the Consular Department and some other persons have since been arrested by the police for suspicion of visa trafficking. A total of at least nine suspects are determined (Der Spiegel, 5.12. ==References== The investigations carried out by the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office now cover several Eastern European embassies; tens of thousands of visas allowing entry into the Schengen area could have been issued for “carrying money” (Kurier, 2. 12. ==References== In one case, the criminal proceedings are already taking place in January: An employee of the Austrian Embassy in Lagos (Nigeria) is accused of suspected abuse of office. He is accused of having been issued illegally 705 visas by the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the context of the visa affair, of course, the question of the responsibility of the relevant department heads must be asked. Significantly, the Committee of Experts, set up by Foreign Minister Plassnik, has no right to answer this question. The Commission's work should be exclusively "forward-looking" (Kurier, 14. ==References== It is therefore necessary to set up an investigation committee immediately from all the above facts and statements. Under one request by the signed Members, in accordance with: § 33 para. 2 The holding of a brief debate on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45141	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speakers having a speaking time of 10 minutes for each reason. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. To the request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Lunacek, ladies and gentlemen, first of all receives the applicant, Mrs Mag. Lunacek, the word. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45183	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I think it is very positive that even in debates on the establishment of committee of inquiry, members of the government would have the opportunity to speak. I'm not surprised that none of them are here. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I know, of course, that the government fractions, which seem to be awakening now, ask themselves the question: Why'd you do it again? [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Your excitement – I don't need to talk further – speaks for myself. You're nervous. You think this is extremely problematic, that this is called for by the opposition and not only by the opposition, Enlightenment and parliamentary inquiry on concerns, which should probably also concern you. [[Abg. Großruck: It actually makes an actual correction!]] [[Other lively calls]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Where are all your people?]] There are also many Members of this House who are not here. So don't get upset just because you still have to sit here now. You can go, then we get a majority for it. Please, I invite you to leave this hall if you do not agree that some of us are not here, then there will probably be a majority. That would be a good idea, Mr Mitterlehner and Mr Großruck. [[Lively calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then we cannot vote your request! We want to vote on your request, that is why we stay there!]] I really find it exciting...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45286	I call Mrs Magnette. Lunacek!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45302	Thank you, Madam President. . I think the reason for this request is almost unnecessary if I notice how nervous you are, because if you were not, then you would think: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Okay, half the hour we're still sitting through, not many calls, then it's faster! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No, we're just trying to keep awake artificially!]] But it seems to you that is really a problem, and obviously you also know that here not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not only the Ministry of the Interior, but the entire Federal Government has a big problem. In order to give you a statement of reasons why this Committee of Inquiry is again: A few weeks ago, when we had it, there were allegations that have become known, massive inspection failures, especially in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, justice is now testing, and this is also a good thing that it is doing, but the failure to control is something that Parliament needs to examine and not justice. It is responsible for criminal matters, but the reasons why it has been looked at for years – knowingly or ignorantly – and has been concealed, it belongs here in Parliament and is a member of an investigative committee. The things that have been noticed last time have not been clarified to this day, for example, why for years the documents have been destroyed and only now the Minister has said that this has finally to be resolved. Even that is what she said only when we put forward committee proposals, and not before. But there is new information, and those, ladies and gentlemen, are shocking. [[Abg. Großruck: still secret!]] You will have followed this yourself in the last days: There is still at least one newspaper in Belgrade – this one is here – which offers visas in advertisements including for Austria and other Schengen countries. [[the speaker keeps copies of some newspaper pages up to date]] Some of the prices are also included, for example €900. Visas are offered for Schengen, Austria, Germany, Italy, Belgium and the Czech Republic. – People don’t even have to go to the message themselves. It's all offered. I know. This is not directly the failure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to have such ads. That's clear to me. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Bravo! Good knowledge!]] But what has the liaison officer of the Ministry of the Interior, who has been stationed in Belgrade for years, done in these years to try, together with the Serbian authorities, to put this mafia in the craftsmanship? Another question: How can it be that these ads still exist? Do you think that those who turn these ads on and say that there are also visas for Austria that would continue to do so if they did not succeed? Do you think that they would still have customers if they didn't talk there that there were still visas at the Austrian Embassy? [[Abg. Amon: What proves that?]] [[Call the ÖVP:Facts here!]] You're probably going to follow the newspaper reports of the last few days. In yesterday’s press: Call a journalist at one of these agencies. She is told: “Everything is perfectly legal and 100% safe.” Today’s headline in the “Kurier”: “A visa will be issued from €800”. Mr Großruck! [[Abg. Großruck: That's why we need an investigation committee! Because an advertisement has been abandoned in Belgrade!]] Listen, or maybe you've already read it, then listen to it again! Call yesterday – so Monday – lunch at the Belgrade “Agency Europe”. “I want a visa with which I can travel to Austria. What's that cost?’ ‘It depends on how long.’ ‘What costs a month?’ ‘That’s from €800. The best ones are business visas for three to six months. The price is 2 600 €.’ ‘But is this legal?’, the “Kurier” asks. – “Of course. We have someone in the Austrian Embassy. All documents are clean and legal, because we also know companies in Austria.” The main point here is: “We have someone in the Austrian Embassy.” – Yesterday – Monday – at the Embassy in Belgrade. If you now claim that this is all uninteresting, we do not need to investigate it, I ask you: What do you want to do then, if not something where it is still clear today and yesterday that is said in Belgrade: We have someone at the Austrian Embassy who gives us this visa!Unknown term type: "%s".? If you don't want to do that, I see it, ladies and gentlemen, because this information is shocking! If it now looks like the former Foreign Minister, Ferrero-Waldner, says that the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for this, I have to reply: This morning the Minister of the Interior has told us that now there are joint teams that will do so, together one will try to solve the problems. But I wonder, What happened in recent years? Why didn't anyone notice? Who was the superior to whom the successor of the now accused told him that he was told whether this practice would continue? Which president in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was that? – It's not going to be a criminal trial. That is the task of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, and that is why we are making this request again. Another is the debt increase: The current EU Commissioner and former Foreign Minister said that she had no responsibility at all, but the Ministry of the Interior, she had everything checked at the time, and it was said that it was all right. Why can she say that everything is all right when apparently superiors were informed in the house itself? – That screams after a committee of inquiry! I know you don't want to. [[Abg. Großruck: Because we're so nervous!]] But if someone comes out from you and says that things were much worse in Germany, I'll tell you: Do you know what was in Germany and what the big difference is? – In Germany, there was a political precept that more people – in this case from Ukraine – should be left to Germany – something the CDU had called for many years before. That was a political decision. [[Abg. Grossruck: But it was illegal!]] In Austria, it is a matter of criminal relevance. But do you know what's even more important? – There was an investigation committee in Germany. And you know why? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You will tell us!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Because there was a political direction!]] – Because this is a minority right in Parliament! Because that can apply for and enforce the opposition there! They – formerly the SPÖ – have prevented research committees from being minority law in this House for decades and decades. In this case, I address this to you and also to the Chancellor Schüssel, who says that we do not need an investigation committee now. In this case, take Germany as a model! There it is minority law that these questions are resolved and that corruption, which is not accused of the House but of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is being examined in a parliamentary way. – This is the task you have to solve today, and I fear that there will be no agreement. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's why we keep up! So that we can vote you!]] But this does not solve the problem, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45494	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45521	What do you think is so funny about the whole thing? - I don't think that's funny at all. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That you talk about something we already know at half a time!]] – No, Mrs Partik-Pablé, today we are adopting the Citizenship Act, and we are now discussing whether Austria is such a lock for the Schengen area, where one simply buys visas and enters the Schengen area irregularly! [[Abg. Rädler: (to the ranks of the SPÖ significant) They don't even listen! The SPÖ is no longer here!]] I can remember that there were times earlier, there was the FPÖ Group sitting there, and it would have been quite excited if there had been that there would have been an irregular and unbridled entry into the Schengen area into Austria. Today you sit there without participation and actually have no response anymore. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Today you're standing up and raining, but there's no one left!]] But I'll tell you the following: The “standard” of tomorrow will report on the – I must say – scandalous press conference of the Secretary-General of Kyrle, who, by the way, said that 99 percent of the visa applications were anyway in order – so such a kind of “whitewasher” from the foreign office. I now quote from the “standard” of tomorrow and do not want to keep this from happening to you. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We can read! We read the “standard ” for ourselves tomorrow!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: I'm not so sure!]] Among other things, it reads as follows: ‘Kyrle rejected the accusation of a ‘criminal network’ on the part of the civil service, as stated in the police investigation filed by the STANDARD. He explained, however, that some consular employees had been transferred in recent weeks. The Secretary-General did not reveal how many disciplinary procedures had been initiated. He also did not want to comment on the number of illegal visas, investigators speak of at least 50 000. Kyrle assured that every single case would be checked internally.” I wonder, What does this actually mean and give a press conference if it does not answer any question it receives? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Ask him! He's not here! What are you asking us?]] He just doesn't give a reply! It speaks for Mrs Plassnik, Mr Scheuch, if you have not noticed it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Neither Plassnik nor the Lord Secretary-General are there!]] That seems to be 50 000 illegal visas. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why are you wondering about half one? Why don't you ask yourself this at home?]] That's why it's happening, and that's a criminal relevance. You can't just divide that away. Then the Secretary-General of the Foreign Office comes, stands down and says: Yeah, sure, there's been a few more moves now, but how many, I don't want to say that! Disciplinary action, of course, but you know, I'm just giving you a press conference to tell you that I am – bye! – don’t say who, how many, when and where! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We read the “standard” ourselves tomorrow!]] How many were they? – I say something to you: Perhaps that's why they have problems getting a position on the number of fake, purchased visas because they have also partially destroyed the files – simply destroyed! You have to imagine: There you have the chuzpe to make a press release to the last plenary session, in which says that Mrs. Foreign Minister seems to have recognized the seriousness of the situation and was for the first time on 27. September this year faced with the problem of the purchased visas. Scale: Tens of thousands. I mean, what "sleep bears" are sitting in the outer offices, that they don't even notice that the tens of thousands of visas were? But she makes herself up and says, on 27 May. She noticed this for the first time on September 1st and she immediately – oh horror! – announced that there should now be an extermination stop for the positively completed application forms. I emphasize: ==References== September! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] In June of this year, the minimum period will be extended to two years. In response to our question in the Committee here in the House, Mrs Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we had to destroy these application forms after a year. - But you don't have to. It is only a minimum period! In June, she extended the deadline to two years, and now suddenly – on 27. September – she said: Let's not destroy them, let's stop the destruction! Then I read on in the “standard” of tomorrow, and there is the following interesting thing: – No, I help you a little. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Read this to us too!]] Who knows if you – especially you – still get the “standard” in your hands? “As reported, the visa affair could have flown up much earlier, but a corresponding advertisement of a police liaison officer in Kiev had been recruited by the public prosecutor in 2003 after almost one year’s preliminary surveys. It is said that the soup was too thin, because defamatory files had disappeared.” [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] No, I just read it out because it's even in the paper! You don't hear anything, you see nothing, you don't want to know anything, and you don't want to keep the woman's foreign minister the bar instead of dealing with these things! That's just getting rid of files! The forms with which the visas were requested disappear! - You don't care. Fuch is a fuch, is your attitude. Füsch is füch, and while still swinging admiring that they were so smart in the office and said: Now the year is about, and now nothing like gone with these forms, because gone, foot is foot! – This is a remarkable attitude towards the rule of law, to the rules and to the way in which this works in these foreign offices you have there! I really have to tell you that! All of this, please, on the day you decide on the citizenship law and agree with the Austrians that you are particularly strict towards people who live or work in this country or whatever they want. – Very strict! In the same breath, take note that these files have simply disappeared or been destroyed. – And then you wonder? The best thing is the interview of former Foreign Minister Ferrero today in the “NEWS”. – That’s really shiny! She basically says the same thing as State Secretary Winkler has said here before. That's what I'm quoting from the Minutes. Listen! A little concentration will be possible! Since then, of course, we have been in regular contact with the Ministry of the Interior – and now the decisive sentence is coming! – which has the technical oversight of the issue of issuing visas. - Quote. What is the message of State Secretary Winkler and former Foreign Minister Ferrero, who says: You know what, don't bother us all the time in the office! If a little bit of a procop, a little bit of the Ministry of the Interior is tormenting the rhinestone, because they have the specialist supervision! With us there was only supervision of the law of the service, we were only responsible for the settlement there, so in fact we hardly had anything to do with it. But the Ministry of the Interior... By the way, this is an interesting collegiate relationship on the government bank between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when you say: If we already hang in it, then take, please, the Ministry of the Interior, because it alone does not give us any real pleasure, and the Ministry of Justice is best! [[Abg. Parnigoni: And the Ministry of Justice!]] Do you know what that is? – These are resolution phenomena that take place there, simple resolution phenomena! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – Simple resolution phenomena! You have to say that! [[Call the ÖVP: Nobody else!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Knowledge You what? If they continue to do so on the government bench, don't sit up there for long in the high house, then you won't be there soon! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You'll just be gone the next time you get to the National Council election. Then you don't have a seat anymore! You can then wave at the local football stadium, but not here in the plenary room anymore. Yeah, that's how it's going to be! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It's a watch at night! He's dreaming!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Daydreamer!]] I can give you a hint: Make You're this investigating committee! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you do not agree today, we will make a request again next time. I'll tell you: There will be this committee – there will be it at the latest in a year! Perhaps you are already in the opposition – and then this investigation committee will be even more secure, because it simply cannot be accepted: what happened here and how you deal with it! – This will not be accepted by us. The greatest joke of history is: You have a bad conscience. - You know, something's wrong. Reporting in the media is more pressing from day to day. You have a terrible crisis management! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We have no crisis either!]] [[Abg. Lens: What crisis should we manage?]] [[Call to the ÖVP:No crisis – no crisis management!]] You're not even able to pull through the cover-up line. You can't do that at all! Mr. Secretary-General Kyrle goes, looks guiltyly three, the foreign minister is often not properly informed and tells us some insult in the committees. - You have to say that. You're just sitting there, and besides a little laughing and calling in between, you don't mind. - You don't have a line of defense at all. I'd say, This is the preliminary stage to capitulation. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – Make She prefers her today rather than later: Come it will be safe, you can prepare for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45838	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45862	Madam President. High house! Mr Cap has just said that there is no defense. – I would say: There is indeed little, because there is no attack! All you've done now was simply that you've read to us something you've used in the various newspapers during the morning, lunch and afternoon. – But new things really didn’t come. [[Abg. Marizzi: This is the truth!]] [[Abg. Gaál: What do you say?]] I would therefore like to try, in all clarity, to sum up the issue of issuing visas and to say: What actually happened? What have been the consequences? What consequences can be drawn from it? – I do this on the basis of this catalogue of questions: who, what, how, where, when and why? It is clear that there have been some consular people – including a general consul, obviously a consul and a vice-consul – who have not only granted visas to legal and factual persons and, in contradiction, not only to the rules of service, but also to the laws of visas. They have done so in collaboration with companies – some of them business firms – and with organisations that have been focused on profit, and they have probably or obviously themselves collected money for it. The whole period between 2001 and 2003 shall be completed. Where did it happen? – It is likely successful in one of the following messages: in Belgrade, Budapest, possibly also in Bucharest, in Kiev, in Lagos, perhaps even in Moscow. – This will show the investigation in detail. What happened when these circumstances occurred? – Already in 2002/2003, when the suspicion occurred for the first time, this has been investigated. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who examined?]] – However, this has not led to any result. Now it's like there's a very massive investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who?]] – Both the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Ministry of Justice examine this case, and if I may believe the newspapers, the Court of Auditors is also present, and then even the tax warrant is there. – That is, five public institutions are already studying this! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But go!]] What's going on now? – There is an investigative commission led by one of your former foreign ministers, the prosecutor's office is turned on, and, of course, the criminal police are also dealing with it. What is being done? – They investigate this on the spot and try not only to investigate the suspicious cases, but at the same time also to establish a control so that such abuses can no longer occur in the future. What's the consequence now? – You require an investigation committee. – That’s where I ask: What's that supposed to do in the individual areas? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Do you think that, in addition to the prosecutor's office, the Court of Auditors, the Investigation Commission and the Criminal Police, it is really a significant improvement, although Mrs Lunacek and Mr Cap are still doing the investigation? I don't think that's any improvement! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] What's going to happen? – Then these two people and two of their employees are involved in one – as I would like to say – room here in Parliament and then evaluate the cases that have not been adequately investigated on the spot by the Criminal Police and the Public Prosecutor’s Office. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have an idea of democracy!]] Is that the improvement you bring? Are you doing this to speed up the procedure or what? None of this is the case! That means: It raises the question of why, and the question of why is clearly to answer. There are no new facts, you didn't bring any arguments either, it's more about making a little politic show and being Adabei. Actually, don't take yourself seriously. If an investigation committee is to be set up and no Van der Bellen or Gusenbauer are present, if not even your own party owners Take you seriously, then you obviously expect us to take you seriously! – No, thank you, the whole thing at night is certainly a misplanning!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e45985	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46006	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We hear that now several bodies are finally starting to investigate this matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] This is gratifying when you know that since 2001, there has been a massive suspicion that visas have been sold to a large extent simply and that illegals have been able to enter Austria without problems if they had the money for it. We are pleased when something is finally happening, but what we want to examine here is not the criminal question and the question of justice, but the question of political responsibility. We here in Parliament have the task of examining political responsibility, and there are very many open questions in this respect. It has been denied and impoverished for a very long time, and it is still impoverished. Documents were destroyed by the end of September. It is explained that it deals with individual cases. Mr Fassleven also spoke of individual cases. On the other hand, he has also said that there are problems and massive suspicions regarding Belgrade, Budapest, Lagos and Kiev. Now Moscow and St. Petersburg also appear. These are not isolated cases! I think the "Kurier" has formulated it quite well. The woman minister spoke of “single black sheep”. The “Kurier” then wrote that this is a “row of black sheep”. Then: For example, there were 28 000 visas in Kiev, which may have been sold illegally – you have to investigate them. That means: These are very massive accusations. It is obvious that in the government, too, the question arises of who is politically responsible. Even the government is not quite sure. The former Secretary of State says that the Ministry of the Interior is responsible. However, the Ministry of the Interior has not actually become active either. Today we have heard from Mrs Prokop that measures are now being taken. Among other things, it has said that in future, in the event of suspicion of organised crime, visas may no longer be issued. – But this is actually a no-na fixture: You don't need any instructions from the Ministry of the Interior to know that criminals are not allowed to issue visas! The question of who is responsible is, in any case, very interesting. There seems to be a negative conflict of competence: No one wants to be responsible, but everyone says that everything is in the best order. The Federal Chancellor, who has also been Foreign Minister himself, says that it does not have to be examined, he knows from the outset that there is no political responsibility. In one word: There are a lot of things that need to be clarified. There has been suspicions for a very long time, but obviously nothing has happened. Especially in today's session, we have again passed a law on which migrants are being made difficult to live, but at the same time, visas are being distributed in a large way. I think this is a truly incredible political scandal, and it has nowhere to be discovered in Parliament and elsewhere. In this case, the study is carried out at the end of
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46073	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46094	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46115	Mr Posch, I call Mr Klubobmann Scheibner.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46131	I'd really been afraid, but I think... [[Further call of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Mr Posch's speech on the SPÖ spoke in such a way that he ransacked right now. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Mr Posch, I understand this very well, because it is really difficult to initiate a debate at an early stage on a subject on which you can of course discuss or where you can ask yourself: What is the meaning of a political committee of inquiry? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If you have nothing else to do but discuss what Mr Cap is trying to do about arguments for a committee of inquiry, I will leave this with you. But... [[Abg. Riepl: You have already talked differently!]] Wonderful! You only need to stand here and wait for what calls come. My dear colleague, we have never talked any other way! We said: If there are investigations by the Justice and the Security Authority, we are waiting for them, and if there are political backgrounds to be illuminated, then we are for the Investigation Committee. That's all right. Now the justice is investigating. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is a virtual speech now!]] I'll tell you: We are in favour of complete information in this case, because it is about the reputation of Austrian foreign policy, about security aspects, and about justice. It examines a special commission with Ambassador Jankovitsch, who will not be completely unknown to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Please have more confidence for Ambassador Jankovitsch, Mr Posch! First, we discussed the question: What is a committee of inquiry to investigate? - He will agree with witnesses. Mr Posch, Mr Cap, what witnesses would you agree with? The Examining Committee will require information on the matter. There is a question to be clarified: What files should be taken into account as long as the judicial system is still under investigation? [[Abg. Riepl: Until all the documents are destroyed!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] So admit it...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46229	Ladies and gentlemen! It's late, and I expect discipline to be discussed now! So far, there have been only intermediate calls on both sides. I expect the last minutes to be completed in peace. Mr Scheibner, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46250	Thank you, Madam President, for protecting me from the attacks of your own party! That's all right! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll say it again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch]] I would always like to take the protection of the President, Mr Posch! I don't know what you got today that you're so aggressive! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] For you, I say a warm protest! Come on. Then with colleagues Gusenbauer and colleagues Cap and taste some wines! But now it's really about something serious! I repeat: Now it's really about something serious! It is ultimately about examining the backgrounds of these criminal actions. That's what justice does. That's all right! If these investigations show that there are any political responsibilities, then we will discuss whether there should be an investigation committee here. But now there are no files we could investigate, nor any witnesses. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You destroyed the files, so there is no longer any more!]] That's what the justice is now investigating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Mr Cap, if you know nothing else than to stage this debate all the time, then this is your problem. We're waiting for the judicial investigation. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Three years!]] As soon as there are results, we will assess them. If there are political developments, we will also debate a committee of inquiry. But at this point we say – and I hope you see it that way – that we hope it was the criminal acts of individual perpetrators. Or? [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] We don't know! You don't know, and I don't know. That is why we are waiting for the investigations of the judiciary and then we are debating them. Everything else is political discussions. We are not here here in the House to beat party-political little money. You won't win us either! We trust in justice. Justice should examine, we will take note of the facts, and then we will debate the Committee of Inquiry, but not before.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46331	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46359	BZÖ colleagues, once FPÖ, if this had happened seven years ago – I don't know how many Members At the time, you had, in any case, a lot more – then it would not have been possible for each one of your group to get out of here and ask for its own committee of inquiry. You would have called for 25 committees of inquiry in this matter, and perhaps not even wrong. Do you know what your logic is, why you don't do research committees, and in this case, too? – As long as there is a single police officer in this Republic who is behind somewhere and is looking at something, as long as there is still a single court and as long as there is still a single prosecutor who may be dealing with this matter, we do not need an investigation committee. – This is your logic, and I would like to invite you to celebrate this your logic once to the end! Klubobmann Scheibner, Klubobmann Molterer, let us make a regulatory reform! Let us be honest in one point – and let us do away with this Institute of the Examining Committee! Let's just make it easy and take care of it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what you want?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Was that a request now?]] That's your logic, thought to end! Your logic is: Perhaps there is also a priest in this republic, who is preaching on Sunday, and we still do not need an investigation committee, because there is still an instance there, which is also something, whether it be for morals, or it is for the stated right, whether there is anything else or something for the best – and always then we do not need an investigation committee! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] According to this logic, it would be worth possibly abolishing Parliament, because there is no way that the government is working – more badly than right, I say, but there are different opinions – there are other institutions, so what do we need Parliament to do? We are constantly adopting the laws according to government documents, and the control function of Parliament is not even discussed by you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] It's funny at one o'clock something! But look at it. Your own performance, as has been done here before: If there are reasons for an investigation committee, then you are clearly mentioned in the applications Cap on the one hand and Lunacek on the other. Of course, it is about such a thing as political responsibility. Of course, it has to be of interest to the Republic if a foreign minister was informed in writing by the abuses in 2001 and the only action that was committed was that a suspect official was transferred somewhere, but it did not result in the fact that the booming illegal trade has decreased, but only in the transfer of it to Budapest with the official from Belgrade. You don't have anything to do with it? Mr Grossruck can smile, it is obvious that he is going differently at home. But these are very clear things! If there is no committee of inquiry, I wonder when else. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But you're consistent in your logic anyway. You are missing only the only step: Let us do away with this committee of inquiry! That's still missing in your logic. That's the only thing missing. But that is why we should not be too busy with these ideas. I would really stick to colleagues Cap. First of all, you can find a next election. Some of you, if they study more precisely, would have to know that they are actually sitting on empty constituencies, because a lot of votes will no longer come together there. But at least there will be another majority here. But this will also be different. You have missed the opportunity to get to the point in time and to fulfil your duty, as I even say, as parliamentarians, once again in such a way that at least the control function of Parliament can be observed from time to time. But no! You know it differently! You know better! The majority is always right! That's your understanding. Investigation Committee is a majority right. So nothing can happen. But there may also be other majorities. Mr Cap, we'll meet. However, I will also take you to the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46432	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Lunacek, colleagues, on the setting up of an investigative committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore not accepted. I shall also vote on Mr Cap's request, Mr Hlavac's request, for the setting up of an investigation committee. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[01:08:48]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00129_d7e46497	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 742/A to 750/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3656/J to 3700/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 1.09 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
