ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00118_d7e446	The 118. National Council meeting on Friday, 8. ==References====External links== As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Grossruck, Dr. Einm, Mag. Muttons, Rossmann, Wittauer and Mag. Lunacek. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00118_d7e474	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following requests: request 683/A (E) by Mr Fuhrmann and Mr Colleagues to the Family Committee; Amendment No 688/A (E) by Mr Mag. Grossmann, Mandak, colleagues; Mr Matznetter, Members of the Financial Committee, Amendment No 686/A (E) by Mr Mag. Lunacek, Bayr, colleagues; Mr Kößl, Mr Partik-Pablé, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Mr Moser, Members of the Committee on Transport, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Decision to terminate the ordinary meeting in 2004/2005
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00118_d7e641	In agreement with all the political groups, I now put to the House the following request for a decision: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of XXII in 2004/2005. National Council legislative period at the end of the 11th century. to be declared terminated on July 2005’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – The request was adopted unanimously. Reading of parts of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00118_d7e671	On the basis of a request from 20 Members, I shall read the Official Protocol on the decision to terminate the ordinary session so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable the immediate wording of the decision. I now read the Official Protocol on the Decision, which we have just unanimously adopted: 'The President, in agreement with the political groups, submits the following request (Annex B): ‘The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of XXII in 2004/2005. National Council legislative period at the end of the 11th century. July 2005 for finished to declare.’ This amendment, Supplement B, is adopted unanimously. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG on reading the part of the official protocol concerning the decision to terminate the ordinary session in 2004/2005 (Annex C).’ Are there any objections to the versions or contents of this Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The read part of the Official Protocol is therefore valid in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[16:28:43]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2005-07-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00118_d7e726	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have half a year of hard work behind us. There has been less consensus than in the last half of the year, there have been more committee meetings, and there have been twice as many calls for orders as in the last half of the year. Overall, it was an intensive year of work. We have passed important and extensive laws; I only remember the following: The abolition of the two-thirds majority in school, the package of foreign law, civil service reform, the reduction of the basic defence service, the ratification of the EU Constitution, the recognition package in the course of the fifty-year celebrations of the State Treaty, the Economic and Employment Act, the Equal Opportunities Act, the constitutional anchoring of the sign language and so on. These are long-term concerns; I am thinking only of the recognition law, and we have been able to decide many things that we have been discussing here for many years in broad majority. The plenary meeting has been held at 43 meetings in the last half of the year. A total of 135 Committee meetings can be recorded. Of the 136 legislative decisions, 58 took place unanimously, 42 percent, and 78 more unanimously, that is 57 percent. Throughout the legislative period, the consensus rate has been 53 percent; in this half-year, it was only 42.6%. The number of calls for order has increased sharply in this half-year: In the last half of the year, we had ten calls for orders, while in this half it was 21. I would like to point out, particularly in connection with calls for regulations – and this is said outside the protocol – that the climate of this House is nevertheless a good and orderly one. It is always very few in all political groups who receive the calls for orders. Everyone knows who's meant, but I think these calls are just essential. A positive development, ladies and gentlemen, is the ‘European days’ we have introduced through a regulatory reform. We have worked out this together at the Presidential Conference. ==References== We will hold the first “Europe Day” together in September 2005. On this occasion, I would like to thank all those who have been involved in this reform of the Rules of Procedure very much for their willingness to do so to the club members, to the European legalists, to the workers in the political groups. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The project launched and initiated by my predecessor, Dr Heinz Fischer, the current President of the Federal Republic of Germany, of the opening of Parliament for the entire population of Austria, has been continued in the last half-year. The house is becoming more popular. The events of the three Presidents and the President of the Federal Council and the clubs have become an essential part of our work and have Dimensions contributed to our reputation. These events of the House and the political groups have brought over 12,000 participants to the house, and we have had a total of over 70 000 visitors in this House. ==References== In October, ladies and gentlemen, we will present to the public the rebuilt High House. As you can see, we are in the final phase of construction. We will be in the afternoon of the 25th. October in a kind of vernissage ramp and palace Epstein of a selected public – of course also the parliamentarians – and on 26 March. October, on a “day of the open door”, I assume that the 10,000 to 15 000 Viennans have the opportunity to have their high house as an open house... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I expect that at least 15,000 visitors will come from the federal states – I wanted to come right away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter, I hope you'll bring a bus full of visitors from Vöcklabruck here. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I am glad that it has succeeded in opening the house, and I hope that it will be an even better place for all of us to work. I am particularly pleased, however, that the long-swerving conflict between the mayor of the city of Vienna and Leon Zelman and a group of recognised citizens on the one hand and the Parliament on the other has succeeded in resolving the use of the Epstein Palace in a friendly and good compromise. We will present in a permanent exhibition in the Epstein Palace the history of the building, the history of this house as the seat of the Soviet commission, but also the contribution of Judaism in Austria to the history of our country. Thus, the Palais Epstein will not be the “house of history”, as some have wished, but will be open to all as a“ house with history. ” In this house, contemporary art is also cared for to a great extent, as you can see again and again, and we will strengthen this focus: We will present an art exhibition in summer with works by Eva Schlegel, Johanna Kandl, Manfred Willmann, Erwin Bohatsch and Michael Kienzer. We want to show this house as an open house also as a house of contemporary art. [[Complementary of the Abg. Mandak.]] – Mrs Mandak, you can praise. I'm glad! I would also like to say to you: From September on, four apprentices will work in Parliament. We will train apprentices here in order to make a contribution in this area as well. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I would like to begin by thanking all the members of the Presidential Conference: my colleague in the Presidency, Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammerund Colleagues Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, who will run the presidential conference with me, and with the four club members. I can assure you that all decisions concerning the House will be taken there. We have a very good and consensual climate at the Presidential Conference. I am pleased about this, and it is a real honor and an honor to chair this conference. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] Finally, I would like to thank our employees, who, without looking at the clock, always help us. Some of them sit here alternately with us at the Bureau. There's a lot of real Heinzelmen and Heinzelwives in this house that start in the morning at 6 o'clock. and after our meetings still work for hours. I think we should thank the use of these colleagues with a strong applause. [[Lively general condolences.]] However, I would also like to thank the “eye of the law” which is now waiting again in – one, two, three, four, five – five times on the balcony over us. Nothing has happened in this house, everything is going very well, and we are still a house that is accessible to everyone and in which the security regulations are not exaggerated, but there are you. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your safety. [[General condolences.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with your families, I would like to wish you a good summer time with your partners, a relaxing holiday. I'm sure: We meet again at an interesting special meeting – not too soon, but yet. Good luck! [[Lively general condolences.]] [[16:37]] The sitting is closed.
