ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3917	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 109. Meeting of 11. ==References====External links== Meeting of 12. In May 2005, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Ellmauer, Rossmann, Dr. Grünewald, Mag are reported as prevented. Stoisits, Mag. Prammer and Mag. Posch. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3948	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllwird by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnikand Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Deputy Chancellor Hubert Gorbach wird by Federal Minister for Justice Mag. Karin Miklauchress. [[09:05:20]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3984	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘For a turnaround in EU policy’ First of all, Mr Gusenbauer has spoken. I'll give him the word. 10 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4011	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, as I believe, we were very convinced here in the Austrian National Council that we were in the opinion of the European Constitutional Treaty and that this European Constitutional Treaty would be an essential, important and correct step towards further integration of Europe. We have, above all, been in favour of this Constitutional Treaty, because we want the enlarged European Union to function. The Union of 25 should be able to deal jointly with the major challenges facing Europe. But what has happened since this decision was taken? – There have been referendums in two of the Member States – in France and in the Netherlands – in which a significant majority of the population voted against this Constitutional Treaty; Britain has – at least for the time being – suspended its referendum. The question therefore arises: How is it going to continue in Europe, how can we deal with this situation? I am of the opinion that the worst thing that could happen would be that Europe now falls into a month-long agony, that one gets the impression that Europe is not capable of action. The worst thing would be to act as if nothing had happened and simply to continue, because people in Europe are expecting clear answers and clear strategies in this situation, such as Europe and, above all, economic and employment policy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot simply go to the agenda and say: We are not interested in how people in Europe have voted! – It is now necessary to put in place clear measures for a change of direction in Europe, because that is what people expect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is the purpose of this change in direction? – The main criticism of European policy is that many people feel that the European Union does not provide sufficient protection against the negative effects of globalisation. Many people are afraid that in the future the goods will no longer be exported, but the jobs will be exported. [[Abg. Grandruck: Are you scared?]] Many people also feel that the policy of the European Union, characterised by the Heads of State or Government and the European institutions, is aggravating the negative consequences of globalisation in Europe. On the one hand, there are two examples of this: the discussion on the Services Directive, which, I believe, is justified by many small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees, in fear of losing jobs, and, on the other hand, the directive on the extension of working time in Europe by Minister Bartenstein, which also causes many people to fear that Europe will not become social, but on the contrary! – that the interests of workers in Europe come under the wheels. Moreover, for several years the economy has been faced with too little growth and with too little initiatives to create employment in Europe. We Socialists believe that there will only be an agreement from people on the European project if it succeeds in resolving this main challenge for Europe. This problem will not be solved only with a squirrel. Clear measures are required here – and all of them expect from the summit at European level next week. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, it also raises the question: What can Austria contribute to this? Austria bears great responsibility. We are at the centre of this now larger, enlarged European Union, many of the new Member States are our neighbours and, of course, we believe that there must be economic and social solidarity with these neighbours. Therefore, no one will dispute that the new Member States of the European Union will also be the beneficiaries of European solidarity and are therefore among the net recipients. But, ladies and gentlemen, if there are now ten new states that naturally need solidarity, we have to ask ourselves whether all the previous net recipients in the European Union must continue to do so. For almost 20 years, all Member States that were net recipients have now received the European Union's resources with good law, in order to achieve an economic recovery process, and many countries have benefited from it. But now we are facing a new situation. The new Member States have to undergo a similar economic recovery process, and therefore it cannot be so that the burden is distributed to just a few shoulders in Europe and all those who have been net payers so far remain in the future, while all those who have so far been net recipients believe that they can continue to consume this right. Europe is then more solid and more financial if no fewer countries have to bear this financial burden, but if more countries bear this burden. We therefore call on the Austrian Federal Government to intervene in the negotiations on finance in the European Union to ensure that the new Member States are all net recipients, but that the burden of financing is distributed on more shoulders in Europe and not carried by a few. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the money alone doesn't matter. It also raises the question: What will be done with the funds at European level? If one hears, Federal Chancellor, that there is a compromise proposal on a possible agreement to finance, and one sees where the European Union is cut short, then one notes: The cuts are made in the trans-European networks, for example Brenner-basis tunnels, reductions in scientific cooperation, reductions in rural resources, and the reductions ultimately make it possible to implement a growth strategy for Europe. I think it is wrong that, if we have a legitimate debate on the financing of the European Union, all previous expenditure blocks remain completely unchanged and that what is urgently needed in Europe is sacrificed on the altar of a compromise. We need a reform of expenditure to ensure that the right and reasonable is made in Europe. If the compromise were to be such that what would be urgently necessary – including Austria – would come under the wheels and nothing would be changed to the existing EU expenditure structures that did not lead to the desired success, it would be a clear compromise that is not good for Europe. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just about: How much must Austria pay?, but also because: What is the European Union spending the money for? The turning point must be that in the future more will be spent on trans-European networks, on sound science and research policies, so that we can catch up with other parts of the world. There must be structural reforms. If you don't believe me, I recommend reading some of the international newspapers of the past week. They do not believe how much money the EU is unable to spend – although it is paid by Member States – because it does not have the appropriate structures at all. I believe that Europe needs a clear signal. Europe needs a clear signal that economic and social policies are being put at the forefront and that we are getting growth and employment in Europe. Europe needs a clear signal that if it is already rejected by two states, this Constitution will be replaced by a better constitution which has the chance of obtaining the consent of all people in Europe. They will not find anyone presenting this Constitution to a referendum without any change in France or the Netherlands. No, you won't find it. You have to give people there the opportunity and the opportunity to say: Yes, European policy has learned, there is a better proposal that can also be approved!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4071	Mr Bundeskanzler spoke for an introductory opinion. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4092	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at home on the screens! I was very curious about what the opposition leader will say to us today because of the title of the current hour, “For a turnaround in EU policy”. Now, after his remarks, I wonder: What is the turning point when you say what we all have been saying for years, what we have put into the European Constitution: more social conscience, more social importance and responsibility in the European Union and through the European Union and its institutions? What is the turning point now when you ask for growth initiatives and research incentives contained in the financial perspective, both in the Commission's proposal and in the Luxembourg compromise proposal? For example, we have significantly increased research expenditure compared to today's period. So, Mr Gusenbauer: What is the turning point in European policy? - I didn't understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I share your opinion on the 11th. In your speech on the European Constitution in May: “The EU Constitution” – this is now – “increases the opportunity and the prerequisite for better policy in the future.... That is why this Constitution is not a guarantee but a chance. The last question you have to ask yourself is probably the: How does Europe look, should this Constitution not be adopted? Let us imagine the situation in Europe: Europe would enter one of its most difficult phases and likely crises." We should not, however, afford “that Europe is going to be in crisis, but we should try to make Europe more effective.” – That is it, honourable Members! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now I say very openly – and I do not mean this at all polemic: That is why we do not need a “turnaround” in Europe’s policy, but we need to work consistently to ensure that these key points of the Constitution are ensured that they are also incorporated into the practice of the European Union, thereby giving European citizens an added value for security, for freedom, for social prosperity and for justice. We should fight for this together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I'll give you the right to: The worst would be month-long agony! But I'm asking: How to understand your clubman's demand: instant ratification stop!, immediate expansion stop!, stop everything, press the pause button!? – That’s exactly what leads to a month-long agony! You have not polemized, but if you now question from the outset the compromise which the Luxembourg Presidency has worked out very carefully and which, of course, can always be discussed from many sides, what is the result? – Monthly agony! If we want to bring something forward and show, in a very difficult situation, if we – and I do not take these two referenda to the light shoulder at all – can learn something from it, then that we should be courageous and together and demonstrate our ability to act. When, if not now, the European Council could prove that we go beyond individual particular interests, that the British are able to refrain from parts of their British discount, that, for example, previous net recipients who have benefited very much, do not continue to maintain disproportionately, but we are also willing to contribute to this common European solidarity. That, I think, should not be the case in the party dispute. Europe is too important to me personally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In Austria we have something very, very precious, which is not at all natural: Since the beginning of our accession negotiations about 15 years ago - the European Economic Area and then accession to the European Union - we have a cross-party consensus on the most important European issues, and this is precious. Other countries don't have that. There one argues about everything and that, and of course the result can also be seen in such tight votes or even in referendums. I say that very openly, too. It is not for me and us to talk about Holland and France, but I think that part of the explanation for this “no” of the population also has something to do with the internal situation in these countries. We have something precious, we actually have a broad European consensus, and we should keep it. We should think about it: How can we - rightly - overcome the weakness of growth that we have in Europe? – You also have to look at this: Which countries have the biggest growth weaknesses? Interestingly, those who have the highest budget deficits and who have implemented the lowest economic and labour market reforms. The Scandinavian countries, for example, have made a lot of reforms, liberalized a lot, contributed a lot to budget adjustment and consolidation, and today have the strength to invest in growth areas, just as we have been trying to do with our opportunities since 2000. We should continue along this path and not try to reverse Europe's policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Or take the discussion from my point of view no longer understandable in some Italian circles on the reintroduction of the Lire. I have to say quite honestly: No one who has a clear mind can seriously represent this three years after the introduction of the euro. The most absurd proposal is to introduce a parallel currency, i.e. act in lire and euro at the same time, to expect, pay whatever. Thank God this proposal has not even been discussed within the euro area. But – I say this quite openly – a turning point could mean – I do not mean it, and it is also clear to you that you do not want it, of course; no one can seriously believe it – that the reprocessing of monetary union, for example, would contribute to strengthening the European, Austrian position on jobs, economics, exports or whatever. So it is not a turning point, but a careful, wise development of Europe is needed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The same applies from my point of view also in the field of enlargement. Enlargement by the ten countries a year ago – and this is far too little aware – many are neighbours of us, has led to an increase of 13 percent in our exports. And exports always mean: Jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs that are secured by us so that goods and services can then be exported. The enlargement date a year ago has led to higher security in Austria. We have 25 percent fewer asylum seekers. We have a quarter less illegal attacks at our borders. That is also to be said. This enlargement was therefore not a cause for fear, but indeed a positive point. We do not need a turning point, but a careful, wise further development in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The same applies to the crime rate. We had strongly increasing crime rates before enlargement, more offences, more ads et cetera. ==References== Januaryen, since more police on the street... – honourable Member, on the street more, in the administration less, for that I stand at any time. [[Abg. Krainer: More police?]] We don't need the police in the pens, but outside on the street. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ==References== January 2004 the crime rate has decreased by 4 percent throughout Austria, in the eastern region, in Vienna, Lower Austria, even almost doubles. That means, in turn, a sensible way. You shouldn't say, The turning point is to stop for Croatia or Bulgaria and Romania – something that has always been discussed in the consensus of us, with guarantees. I am convinced that the European Commission will delay the accession of Bulgaria and Romania by one year: precisely for these reasons of security. But keeping a line also means that in such a situation we are not afraid of death, but ask: With what transitional periods, protection possibilities, what protection possibilities are we taking place? So, not a turning point, but a wise, correct development in consensus, in the Austrian consensus, is required from my point of view. Ladies and gentlemen! I fly to Brussels next week, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance. We do not know if there can be a financial compromise, but one thing I say very clearly here: With the Luxembourg proposal, we have a proposal on the table for the first time, which is much stronger in the direction of net payers. In fact, 1 percent of payments are proposed – originally we wanted 1 percent of commitments – i.e. 1,056 percent of gross domestic product in commitments. In my view, this is not a very bad proposal. But we also have interests, as you rightly mentioned: Trans-European networks, rural areas, border regions – these are the topics that we also want to contribute to, because we do not simply want to decide the key points, but also deliberately want to implement our internal objectives. [[Abg. Krainer: Talk time!]] Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the important issue of Europe here during the current hour. We will certainly do this even more often, even after the next week, after the European Council, but I very much ask that we do not now place a turning point, but rather a wise, professional development of our common European political consensus. [[Abg. Krainer: Talk time!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4244	The speaking time of all other participants at the current hour is 5 minutes. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4268	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In June 1994, the Austrians voted in favour of Austria's membership of the European Union with an overwhelming and, I say, for many surprising two-thirds majority for the European Union. At that time, the most important arguments – I remember very well because I have worked very intensively for them, for this yes – were that we stand for accession out of Austrian interest because this Europe is the peace project for generations, because this Europe is the project of democracy and because this Europe is the project of the social market economy. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is just as true today as it was in 1994. Ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democratic Party of Austria! There are two possible variants of the fact that you have today referred to the current hour as the ‘Kehrtwende in der EU-Politik’. Either this title has happened – that would be bad – but if this title is deliberately chosen, it is even worse, and I will draw your attention to it because it may have missed you. Some faces are affected. Think about what you really are signaling with “turning around in European policy”. It is now about keeping the line, not about turning around, ladies and gentlemen, especially in a situation that is not easy to admit in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What are you signaling? [[Abg. Grade: Keeping line means nothing change!]] What do you signal from the SPÖ, for example, about the term “turning around” in connection with the enlargement of the European Union? Do you want to turn back the enlargement of the European Union? Do you want to turn back the wheel of time, although this expansion has brought Austria a security gain, as well as a growth and a stability gain?- Oh, my God! Signal They do not use the term ‘turnover’, for example in the case of Romania and Bulgaria: Please stay outside!Unknown term type: "%s".? And what do you signal to our friends, for example, in Croatia, yes in the Balkans at all?! – I think that the signal is not a turning point right now, that the process of enlargement will continue with responsibility and feeling, so that we will continue to be growth and job winners, as well as safety and stability winners in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They signal a turnaround from the SPÖ, for example, in the Constitution. Mr Gusenbauer, it cannot be that what was right four weeks ago and was welcomed by you – this was a great debate here, with good contributions, namely this debate on the European Constitution – is wrong today! We must now send a signal, ladies and gentlemen, that we want to fight for this European Constitution! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] The first thing to do was to kneel in front of the opponents of Europe! And we don't! We want to keep line, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, not only do we see it this way, I don't only see it this way: This is what Hannes Swoboda sees – after all, he is the Deputy Social Democratic Group leader in the EU Parliament. Maria Berger sees this in the same way. Do you really want, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, a turning point in European security policy, a turning point in European stability and monetary policy?- Oh, my God! Mr Gusenbauer, stay You're talking about reality when you talk about the question of finance! The Luxembourg compromise proposal provides for an additional €9 billion for research alone, so for important perspectives! We are fighting for infrastructure and for rural areas, but not with the wrong signal: Forward comrades, we want back!, but with the right signal: Europe is to be strengthened and to move forward! Therefore, our answer is: the social market economy in Europe – with ecological and ethical responsibility as well as a modern and future-oriented Europe! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Not “turn around”, but “keeping a line” is now the right answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4345	Next, Mr. Dr. Eins. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4366	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Mr Bundeskanzler, I am sorry to have to say this: I have the impression that you did not really understand the signals from France and the Netherlands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But go!]] And I am afraid, Federal Chancellor, that you are not really aware of the signals we can hear in Austria. What's the signal that came from France? – From France, the signal has been that the people who voted by a majority against a constitution that we have agreed to here, for good reasons... – Mr Commissioner, please be so good and do not ask so unqualified questions! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Did you agree to this house?]] [[Abg. Großruck: Haven't you read how you agreed?]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Last week he agrees...!]] In France, although people have said a no to the Constitution – that was the question that has been asked – but what was actually the motive for the French – that has been examined socially – was that they finally want a policy other than those made by the French Government or the EU on issues of economic and social policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The French were and are sorry to see how unemployment is increasing, how pressure on workers is increasing, and no one is doing anything about it! They were and are sorry, so they said no, not knowing which part of it came from Europe and which part of it came from Mr Chirac and the French Government. They have made it clear: We don't want that anymore! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: And what is the answer?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Dutch signal was quite similar, even there it was not about the Dutch having said something about the Constitution in detail. In the Netherlands, people have the same concerns as the people in France and in addition the problem that they feel they have to pay too much for the European Union. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And now the SPÖ is making the policy of France, the Netherlands!]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler, said that it would be completely absurd to reverse monetary union. - Yes, you're right, of course it would be absurd. But if you were to ask in Austria today if people would not prefer the schilling back. [[Abg. May. Hakl: No, I don't think so!]] I say to you that people would say by a majority, yes, they would like to have him back because they believe today and dream that there was no inflation in the past, and because they feel today, especially in the areas of small incomes, that there is an inflation against which you do nothing from this federal government, yes, you even worsen! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: European spokesman One, that's bad!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we are talking about is not a turning point with regard to the European Constitution, but rather a turning point in politics, including in Austria. You have been watching unemployment rise in Austria for five years, and your Minister of Labour says every time he hopes it will get better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Only: The citizens do not pay him for hope, but for politics that does something about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's look at another signal. Federal Chancellor! Mr Verheugen, the Vice-President of the European Commission, today gives the best in an Austrian daily newspaper that we need to continue enlargement now. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Social Democrats!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Social Democrats!]] Can you explain to us how to work with 25 or more members on the basis of the Treaty of Nice? Can you explain this to us? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Social Democrats!]] It's not possible if that's not possible. That is why we voted in favour of the Constitution, so we spent 17 months in the Convention and then another year in the Intergovernmental Conference. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The point to be made is to consolidate Europe so that it can be done again. You can't pretend to have been nothing and just go on. [[Abg. Wheeler: Do it in Germany!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What it is all about is finally making a turning point in actual politics, not in the constitution, but in politics. What people expect is that their everyday concerns are finally taken seriously, and these are the concerns and the interest in the workplace for themselves and for their children, which are the concerns about social security, which are the concerns about environmental policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] What you're doing here is a policy that helps the cross-border companies – I don't dispute at all – but what people feel is that they're not at the heart of this policy. And that's why they said no to that. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a proper piece of work in front of us, that is to repeat the part of the constitution that the Heads of Government last did not allow us to thoroughly revise Part III, so that this Constitution becomes sensitive to citizens' interests. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4621	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4642	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to hear today that Mr. Eine has agreed to the then popular desire of the FPÖ to introduce the euro only at the end of economic and monetary union. [[Abg. Dr. One: You didn't listen!]] This really surprised me today, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We do not need a turning point in Austrian EU policy. This Federal Government, Ladies and gentlemen, since their very existence, Austrian interests have not only enforced sanctions, not only on the terms of accession of Turkey, but also on other essential issues. [[Abg. May. Worm: Transit contract, that was great!]] But in part I give you the right, Mr President, we need a change in pan-European policy. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] We must make it clear that this Constitution has failed! The whole work on this Constitution, which we have done for several years now, has been in vain! Europe will have to put itself together at all its decision-making levels and re-evaluate and redefine the process. This Constitution would have made a significant improvement for the European Union if it had at least made improvements in key areas in terms of the status quo that we now have through the Treaty of Nice and others. These comprehensive negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, must also lead to a change in EU policy as a whole. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're right!]] And I am quite right to say to the SPÖ colleagues: Not this Constitution was bad – I give you the right to: Not this constitution was bad! – but EU policy was poor in key, important areas. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be that we are bringing an important constitution into a ratification process and there is only the debate at European level on an unlimited enlargement of the Union. [[Abg. Marizzi: Exactly!]] It cannot be said that the European institutions are not fully concerned with the deepening of the Union, i.e. with the implementation of the current economic and political situation in the current Member States, but only – and that is the impression of the citizen – and this impression was not wrong – being removed and arrogant in a policy field that people cannot understand. This, ladies and gentlemen, will also be the Austrian task of correcting this European policy in the next few months at European level. We need more deepening now than enlargement. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] No one in the European Union, no citizen in France and Holland, who now had to vote on the Constitution, has voted only on the Constitution. Everyone of these citizens who voted here has also looked at the EU policy of the national government, but also at the European policy that I have now outlined in key criteria. The European Union must also become aware of its role as a protector of Europe in the context of globalisation. [[Abg. Marizzi: Very good!]] Here I also give you the right, Mr Gusenbauer: The European Union must become aware of this role! It cannot be that in such a difficult period of the process, during the recognition and ratification of this Constitution, it is constantly coming for job outsourcing, for the outsourcing of economic resources that the Union needs in Far East countries and for the Union to look forward to doing so. The European Union must also play this role in all recognition of the World Trade Organisation and its rules. It must begin to forcefully represent the interests of Europe in the context of the negative effects of globalisation. That, I believe, must be the role of the European Union. And if it can play this role in the coming years, if it succeeds, it will also have the opportunity to regain the population for next important European policy steps. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this connection, it has again shown how wholesome popular elections are. I am actually sorry that we did not have this referendum at the Austrian level, because referendums force the European Union to change its course, especially when they start negatively, and the European Union is forcing it to re-think and perhaps on a better course. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4762	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek has now come to speak. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. I hope I have spoken your name correctly – the house congratulates you!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4789	Thank you! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Greens have ratified the European Constitution a few weeks ago in the awareness that it is important that this Europe – and that is what we are – gets a constitution. As European citizens, we need a constitution. I am now concerned how these votes in Holland and in France are used to distinguish themselves from this project of Europe, to re-enter national moods and also to pursue national populism. And that we say here: the European Union – and we here with our Austrian interests, that is the completely wrong approach. It's about us as Europe! We need a constitution, we European citizens! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The policy of the European Union is not something removed, which any bureaucrats in Brussels decide, but these are decisions that the Austrian Federal Chancellor, the Austrian Finance Minister, the Austrian Minister of Labour, the Austrian Environment Minister makes every month again and again. These are Austrian decisions, we have a right to co-determination here. I am already annoyed by this, Mr Federal Chancellor, and I also put great disbelief to you if you make yourself and say: Well, logically, the European Constitution has missed the social dimension! – You already have to remember that this federal government has failed a lot, namely to anchor exactly this social dimension in the Constitutional Treaty. On the contrary. The governments, and there was also Austria with them, even have the social dimension of the draft Constitution on the way from the European Convention to the final draft. I just say one example: the so-called full employment as the objective of the European Union. This target was originally there, but that was deleted. And our representations in Brussels were significantly involved. A second example: tax harmonisation. Tax harmonisation is very, very important in the European Union to alleviate this dumping between States, this hard-hit competition, which should no longer exist in Europe, and to stop it in the medium term. I'm just saying a keyword: Company tax reduction in Slovakia, where Austria then had to check immediately. The European Union must meet this ruinous local competition! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The original draft provided for a principle of majority voting so that no single countries could continue to veto tax harmonisation. Austria was also involved in the removal of this. And that, Federal Chancellor, you must already be blamed: They were also pioneers of neoliberal policies in the European Union with their decisions, including with national decisions. Look It is only the last tax reform to be able to be paid by the Austrian taxpayer with the tax advantages for multinational corporations, profit opportunities, loss write-off opportunities abroad. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, the European Union is still incomplete. If you think of this as a house that is not yet completely completed, some of it is already in need of renovation, and 25 tenants are sitting in this house, and everyone has special interest only in his own apartment, then you can imagine how difficult it is to create a common renovation plan or further development plan for this house. And that's the problem. There are shortcomings, but one cannot see them from the national perspective, but must see them from the common perspective. If you want to reform the net payment system, you must not do it from the point of view of: In any case, we are less!, but only from the point of view: The stronger help the weaker, in the sense of a common positive development. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Democracy is still incomplete. There is still very little transparency. There is still the Euratom Treaty, but it would only have been more of a link and would not be included in the founding agreements per se. The European Union is still not a social union. And we are still relatively far away from the sustainable economy. But I don't know any other part of the world – and you can look in all directions, you can look into the USA, you can look west, you can look east – there are no states, no states that feel responsible for creating a fairer world order, whether sustainable economics is, environmental protection, peace orientation, social justice. This is the task of the European Union, and it is also our task to do so. And for that, it does not need less Europe, but definitely more Europe, much more Europe! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are positive examples that we have already achieved as European politicians, namely, the orientation of peace. 60 years of peace in Europe is an achievement, but it is still very much to do, and we need a constitution to do so. I agree that in the last few days there has also been some inadvisability in the discussions in the club and in the party as to how to proceed now. In any case, it is a massive setback for Europe to have to deal with it once again, to bring these 25 tenants into a hat and to create a constitution. But I'm afraid we'll have nothing else left. Furthermore, to the BZÖ one more word: Jörg Haider is currently founding his third party. After the BZÖ has ratified the Constitutional Treaty very, very disciplined and brutally, its head of the party is acting against this Constitution outside! – This is unbelievable, and this is precisely the policy that destroys European awareness in the medium term, European dimensions for citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4912	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4934	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Dear Europeans!]] The SPÖ has today chosen a title for its current hour, which is a little wrong. It is not about a turning point of EU policy, but, in fact, about a turning point of SPÖ policy. And that is the remarkable thing we need to see today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The citizens in France and Holland did not want to do this: on the basis of these referenda, the SPÖ in Austria gives up all that has so far been the goal of its policy in Europe. [[Abg. May. Worm: The people have spoken! The people!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is really remarkable to listen to the speakers of the SPÖ, which seems to have changed everything within four weeks. Four weeks ago, the European Constitution was praised, and the peace project Europe was highlighted. The contents of the European Union and integration have been particularly praised. – Four weeks later, it seems that everything is different. In the European Constitution there is the content, ladies and gentlemen, which you now call for. You're saying that's the wrong content. The European Constitution has objectives of achieving full employment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what you want: Focusing on the fact that there is more employment, that this is a common goal. It is the subject of this European Constitution. Therefore, the contents are correct and not wrong! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Secondly, you explain to us today that the Austrians would wish for the schilling again. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Who said that?]] Unfortunately, you are completely wrong in the way, Mr One, although I appreciate you as a European politician otherwise. Just yesterday, OGM published a survey that found that 21 percent of respondents wanted the Schilling again, but 73 percent of Austrians are for the euro. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Do you have trouble understanding colleague One?]] Ladies and gentlemen! A turning point obviously in SPÖ's policy, that we are now no longer focusing on what the Austrians want. – We want the euro, we keep the euro, we are on the line of the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A third, valued ladies and gentlemen: Mr Gusenbauer insists on television interviews: no more euro for the European Union! Let's remember a few weeks ago: We have had an intensive discussion in the main committee on whether Austria should represent that, as a net payer, we should remain at 1% of the gross domestic product within the framework of the European Union. We represented this, but we were criticized. What do you think of who? – From the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! It has been said that it is the wrong policy that cannot be determined on a 1-percent mark, we have so many tasks in Europe. – Ladies and gentlemen, a turning point in the SPÖ policy, which seems to be really huge! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: 1 percent is already an increase!]] I am a little horrified at that, because a party that has been running a turnaround in the politics that it has now represented for many years within a few weeks is not a party for me, which can truly be entrusted with the responsibility of shaping the future Europe. The problems are actually difficult, because the conclusions from these two referenda cannot all of us pull a finger and say: That's the right solution! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Log out of the social...!]] It must be very careful and with clear head tried to discuss what is actually the cause. Whether that is the content of the Constitution, whether it is national problems, whether one wants a Europe that is stronger or that goes more towards the nation states, it really needs an analysis that can only be done if the picture is complete. And the picture is not complete yet. Ten states have ratified, including Austria, two have said No, the next referendums are on, and we will only be able to make a judgment when the picture is really complete. Of course, you have to do this in a very careful way, and you also have to learn from it. I would like to conclude by saying what a truly remarkable European politician, the former German President of the Federal Republic of Hercegovina, has said before the European Parliament. He asked the question: Europe in doubt? In reality, citizens are constantly doubting it, and we also sometimes ask whether it is the right policy. But he has also given an answer to that which is right, namely: In any doubt, Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an answer that we should all be standing to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5073	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5094	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Member of the European Parliament, read the title! It's not there: Turning forward in the EU Constitution, but ‘turning around’ ‘in EU policy’. [[Abg. May. Molterer:... at the SPÖ!]] Turn around in EU policy! And you must take yourself seriously, ladies and gentlemen of the government: Either you stand up to the text of the Constitution, then it actually means a turning point in EU policy, or you want to continue the old policy of favouring people and pursuing a different line. That is why, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: There's no one else to know! Total chaos! Zickzack!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Do you have a problem, Mr. Lopatka?]] It is in the great interest of the working people, the population in Europe, that this constitution, which is not the yellow of the egg but a huge step forward, can be implemented. But that also means that it must be possible for people. And while at the same time it is explained in this context, contrary to the opinion of the European Parliament in the Services Directive: We continue, as we have planned, and do not take into account the country of origin principle!, then that is exactly what leads to our demand: A turnaround in European policy is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or: What about the Working Time Directive? There the European Parliament called for an amendment in a majority vote two weeks ago. Then the Ministers of Labour and Social Affairs meet and make a turnaround in the sense of: We have proposed that we remain on this path. – That is why it is possible, ladies and gentlemen. And if the European Union and the Heads of Government have decided in 2000, 2010 on a knowledge-based, growth-oriented policy that creates employment, and on this paper in 2000 - we have revised this - that there should be more and better employment, but that the reality looks so as to increase the unemployment rate, then the demand for a turnaround in EU policy is more justified than ever. Then: It is about people in this Europe and not just one-sided about growth and the economy. It is about people and employment in this Europe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I think we can agree on one thing: The globalisation of the economy is moving wherever it wants. And that is why it is so important that the European Constitution becomes reality. It is precisely because of this that it is so important for people to experience that those who demand a European Constitution do so in their own sphere. We have 275,000... – honourable Member, you know very well that the EU itself has said: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why does the caster say: Ratification stop!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] If a country is opposed, then this project has died. That is why we need to rethink how it actually goes on? It is a matter of making citizens understandable through real, viable policies that the European Constitution is a positive thing for them. Take the morning news from early Germany: AEG closes the plant with 1 300 employees and travels to the east. Look Get to Europe on the map! I'm lucky I got a National Geographic European Card yesterday. [[the speaker shall keep them up to date]] Where do we want to walk with prosperity? Where it's bright or where it's dark? I believe that growth and employment throughout Europe – no matter where we are – continue to bring prosperity. You can't just tell people: We have to get down with the wages, down with the social conditions! This is not the Europe in the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. We have a different concept of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We live in reality and are confronted with demands every day that we need to change. Yes, that is why the Constitution states that social fundamental rights are also an essential element. That's a huge step. He calls for a stop to real EU policy and not a stop to the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. That's the point that it's finally about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is about the Heads of Government taking seriously what they themselves have decided: the Lisbon strategy, growth and employment, more and better jobs. And we have enough to do in our own country. All the unemployed in Austria would mean the Burgenland without employment, ladies and gentlemen. What are we doing on the training issues? What are we doing in the investment sector? What are we doing in all economic policy so that employment in our country increases and does not decrease? – That, I believe, is the challenge we are facing. A yes to the Constitution, a No to the reality of politics in Europe – this is our line!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5227	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5249	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We already know the mechanism in Europe: Whenever a referendum, a referendum in a European country is negative, there is once again terrible horror, surprise – and then there is silence, then there is a consideration: What do you do now?, then there is self-criticism: Yes, Europe is too little close to citizens, yes, here there may be some lack! – And then, once again, nothing happens, and finally, one thinks that it has grown grass over it, and goes back to the agenda, until one gets a negative decision again at the next referendum, Mr Parnigoni. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] This cycle will have to break through! And perhaps precisely because one has not broken this cycle so far, one also has so much fear in Europe – ultimately also in Austria, Mr Parnigoni – of this opinion of the population, of this Europe-critical attitude and of the disparity between the European thought, the European ideals and the reality in the consciousness of the population. This danger is also present here. Why has no one in the European Union and also in most Member States thought about what should happen if the European Constitution is not ratified in one or more countries? I have often asked this over the last few weeks and months, and everyone has told me: We are not thinking about it now, because we are waiting for it to be the case at all, because it must not be that the people here are not following the politicians and institutions in the European Union. – And now we see that you haven’t done any precautions and you don’t have any idea about it, but everything should go as far as it has been. And if there is criticism, then we refer to the peace project of the Union, and in view of that, everything else is secondary. Yes, we have also referred to this peace project of the European Union in the debate on ratification: That is unique, that is important, and that is why the European Union is also important, which is why this European Constitution is also important. But the reference to this peace project must not cover the shortcomings of criticism. Criticism is necessary and important so that we can bring these structures to a new track – not back, but forward, but to a new track – not against Europe, but against a Europe, but a Europe of citizens, not the institutions and bureaucrats, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Lentic.]] It is therefore not possible for me to say that we are going to the agenda, as if nothing had happened. This Constitution is a prerequisite for the Europe of 25 and that is why we cannot now act as if nothing had happened and, for example, with Turkey's accession talks. There is also the question: What about the next extensions? I am in favour of Croatia being an important country for the European Union, but we cannot take these steps without creating the conditions for them, and this is a European Constitution. – And precisely such things were mistakes in other areas as well. Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Eine, I think that the line in European policy is not yet clear with you. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It has never been clear, the line!]] But what does “turning around ” mean? – Returning, also in Austria, to a European policy of the nineties, which you have had to answer and which corresponded exactly to what we today criticise in Europe, that everything has been done outwardly, as if everything had been done in order and inwardly, and has missed exactly this offensive for the citizens? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Foreign Minister Schüssel!]] We criticized this at the time – Mr Bösch has addressed this correctly. Why has it not been possible to bring together an economic union in the European Union, which would have been the prerequisite for a common currency? This has not been brought together, the second step has been taken before the first – and today we are discussing whether the euro will have the strength, the consequence and the stability that we all need, ladies and gentlemen. But from the economic union, from the tax union, we are still far away. Why, my Ladies and gentlemen, at the time you did not present pure wine to the people's accession negotiations about what consequences this will have? There we have been thrown around with Ederer-Tunnelen, where we have promised that the neutrality from A to Z can be preserved, and at the same time the European Union and also here in constitutional reality have done exactly the opposite. [[Interlocutory calls by Dr. Herzegovina and Dr. Niederwieser]] These are the things that people feel! Perhaps they do not know – clearly, because the information is only insufficient – but it is the sense that the reality is removed from what has been said. We need more Europe, yes, but a self-confident Europe that goes back to the citizens – and not to the institutions!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5336	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Lunacek. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5357	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, also on the gallery and in front of the screens! We of the Greens have regretted the no much of the population in France and also in the Netherlands on this European Constitution. But: With regard to many aspects which have given the result for this No in these countries, we also understand this attitude; whereas the No was not directly linked to the Constitution in our view, but it was a criticism of an unsocial – and also unecological – policy of the governments of the two countries concerned, but also of numerous other governments in Europe, including the Austrian Federal Government. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Red-Green in Germany!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The criticism of this unsocial orientation of many governments and also of European policy was mainly the result. And it is true that the Austrian Federal Government was also involved in this policy, because as my previous speaker Eva Glawischnig said: The Austrian Federal Government was also a pioneer in anchoring neoliberal elements in the third part of this Constitution. In the first part, full employment is in the midst of the social market economy. And what you did, with all the other governments, then at the Intergovernmental Conference, was to weaken all this – not only to weaken it, but to turn it into a different direction, namely to write in the free market economy. Then there was no more talk of “social ”! Sometime, one of your many predecessors – Dr. Riegler, that was my memory – even spoke of an ecological and social market economy. [[Call the ÖVP:Eco-social!]] With you, Federal Chancellor, and in the government that is led by you, it is no longer the case! And neither have you managed to put these elements in the third part of the Constitution within the Intergovernmental Conference. No, you missed it! In the same way, it is on the point of full employment: In the first part, he's inside. In the third part there is only more: a high level of employment. – You have to answer for that too. And if you and also Mr. Klubobmann Molterer now say we have to keep line and just keep going and do nothing new, then I can only say to that: In this line, Federal Chancellor, the Greens are not going along! The Greens go with a line that means: Yes to the Constitution, to a European Constitution – but politics needs a different orientation. There needs to be an orientation more towards a social policy and an ecological one. - There is no such thing on your side. The same is true of tax harmonisation: The European Convention has still done so. But the Intergovernmental Conference has prevented it! And if you say, Yes, continue as before!, then I believe, Federal Chancellor, it cannot be because the tax dumping which is possible within the EU would have prevented the draft, as it was originally presented by the Constitutional Convention. In other words, we cannot continue as before, and in view of the fears and concerns that exist in France, the Netherlands and in other countries too, simply say: Bad luck! They didn't agree. Let's continue as we have done. – It will be necessary to convene something like a new convention or a continuation of the old one and to re-examine these social aspects. This will be necessary in order to give the population more confidence in the fact that this Europe is one that anchors the claim – social things – to have a social network, to promote justice not only within Europe but also towards other parts of the world, and above all to be a Europe of peace. Only then we can be that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On this point of the peaceful Europe: I can already understand when Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer believes that the burden must be redistributed within the European states. It is true that the 10 new ones need more support and that there should also be a new distribution within the 15 old Member States. But not only the 10 new people need more support, but solidarity in Europe also means solidarity with Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania and the other Balkan countries, because this peace project is only to be secured if the countries of south-eastern Europe are given a perspective. And that costs something! But it costs much less than a war and a reconstruction – not to mention human suffering. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In the sense of this peace project Europe, it is very likely that it will also be necessary to re-distribut the burden within the EU countries. But that doesn't mean paying less, but thinking about whether you don't have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5424	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[10:11:20]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5445	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5831	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 635/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues with regard to the early appointment of the Managing Director of the Art History Museum and the replacement of the curatorium of the Kunsthistorisches Museum. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2764/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5856	I would also like to say that, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a brief debate on the reply 2764/AB to Question No 2794/J by Mr Dr. Eins, colleagues with regard to conclusions of the Presidency at the European Council on 22 and 23. It was held by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on 3 March 2005. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5877	The debate on points 1 and 2, 3 to 5, 6 and 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5903	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free Parliament Club 96 minutes, Green 104 minutes. The following speaking time agreement was also reached for the debate between 10.10 and 12.00, which was transmitted by the ORF: first of all, one speech per group of 10 minutes, then the Minister with 10 minutes, then one speech per group of 7 minutes, then a member of the government with 5 minutes, and finally one speech per group of 5 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office of the Council shall be evenly distributed to the political groups in such a way as to ensure that all political groups speak evenly. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after the television broadcast or at the end of the debate. The House shall decide on this speaking time agreement. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – The sign is done unanimously. That is why we are doing so. [[10:14:36]] 1. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (949, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Wehrgesetz 2001, the Heeresdisciplinary Act 2002, the Heeresweisegesetz 2001, the Auslands Einsatzgesetz 2001, the Munitionslagergesetz 2003, the Military Ausgabegesgesetz 2002 and the Military Power Act (Wehrrechtsammengesetz 2005 – WÄG 2005) (955 d.B.) 2. Point Report and request of the National Defence Committee on the draft federal law amending the 1991 Employment Security Act (956 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5962	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate is opened by Mr Gaál. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5989	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have completely changed security policy conditions in Europe. To face the threats and challenges of the 21st century. A reform of the Austrian federal army is essential – a reform that we have been calling for for for years. That was also with a reason that we have been very active in the Federal Force Reform Commission. The recommendations of the Reform Commission are the result of a broad political consensus. Now we are dealing with the implementation of these recommendations, and this calls for an amendment to the 2001 Wehrgesetz. In principle, we go along with this new path, but he also carries our manuscript. But one thing is clearly said to stop misunderstandings from the start, Minister of State: The constructive cooperation and the SPÖ's consent to the outcome of the reform do not mean any consent to the Eurofighter procurement! On the contrary: You know as well as I, Federal Minister, the purchase will bind up all the budget resources in the future and threaten the implementation of the reform. But this reform is vital for the Austrian federal army – otherwise there is a second-class funeral, and we do not want it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundesminister, the classical state defense comes into the background, no longer has the importance she had in the past. The focus is on the international challenge. But it was also here: The participation of neutral Austria in military operations in Europe can only take place in accordance with the UN and the OSCE in the future! We therefore have to prepare the Austrian Federal Army for these new international tasks. This requires a modern, forward-looking organization, an operational organisation with slim structures, especially in the top management levels and administrative areas, and also an upgrading of the troupe. But, Federal Minister, the reorganisation and reorganisation of the central office is still lacking in your documents and concepts. In particular, there are no specific financial provisions, the concrete financial provisions for the implementation of the reform. We know it costs at least €2.5 billion. They speak very carefully of the fact that 1 billion € in proceeds could be possible in connection with the sales of barracks. Therefore, for the financing of the reform according to your bill, € 1 to € 1.5 billion is missing – in old currency at least 20 billion schilling. Where do you want them to come from? Therefore, we are rightly concerned about the implementation of the reform, we are rightly concerned about the Austrian federal army, because also necessary procurements will no longer be possible in the future. For years, we have been demanding and calling on the Court of Auditors to draw up procurement and expenditure plans with a corresponding priority sequence. There's no such thing as that, Mr. Federal Minister! We didn't have to notice until our last visit to Sarajevo that the necessary equipment was missing. The soldiers complain about the lack of combat suits you have promised here for years. All in all, Minister of State: We urgently need a reorganisation of procurement, and we are willing to make a contribution here too. Only: You must also address our concepts, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, Mr Federal Minister, I am not willing to say: There are common interests in security policy – in principle! Unfortunately, it always looks different in detail. And this is also to be seen in today's government paper. For your part, you often have a completely different weighting of the recommendations, which leads to a estrangement of the recommendation text. We will not allow that to happen, we will not agree to it. That is why there will also be a no to the procedure you are seeking to reduce the obligation of military service, although this is a decades-long demand of the SPÖ. We have always opted for a legal anchoring of the reduction of military service to six months, but all our requests have been rejected by you over and over again. [[Abg. Murauer: Why didn't you implement it?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – Unfounded rejected! We want legal certainty for young people, Mr. Federal Minister, so that they can rely on six months to actually stay six months. But this legal certainty is not here. The young Austrians, who now serve military service, are in the mood of politics, of the respective minister, of the respective party and have to expect them to serve any longer until 2008, just because the government parties could not agree. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does it mean to “worship longer ”?]] We have repeatedly stressed: Security policy is not suitable for party politics! And for a party dispute, Mr Scheibner, she is totally inappropriate. I therefore find it incomprehensible that young people in attendance have to pay for the coalitionary disunity. That's what we're saying, no! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... read your own report!]] Nevertheless – a total yes to this Ural requirement of SPÖ; dear Herbert Scheibner, six months are enough! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You want to abolish it! Federal Light!]] The same applies, ladies and gentlemen, to the adaptation of the army to the new security conditions. When we called for this important step in 1999, i.e. the reduction, the adjustment of the army, there was a reflexive ÖVP campaign, especially in Lower Austria. Mr Fassleven – Werner, you know this – when we spoke of 60,000 men at the time, it was in the barracks that the SPÖ was for the halve of the German army, destroying thousands of jobs. Today, ladies and gentlemen, six years later, we can see that our constructive, forward-looking arguments have prevailed, which I am particularly pleased with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That doesn't even believe your own...!]] Federal Minister! A positive assessment is to be made of the training service for dependants, who have so far only been available to women, and now also applies to the military staff. But here too, there is a advertising drop, because in the event of an exit from this training service, men have a refund obligation of up to €3 410, i.e. a huge, predictable problem they deal with. We expect special difficulties in this area in the field of one-year-old voluntary training, since this training can only be carried out on the basis of this new training service. If the young soldier now leaves during the one-year-old volunteer training, he will also have to make these enormous repayments, except for illness. This negative appearance, ladies and gentlemen, is incomprehensible to me. [[Abg. Scheibner: He gets something too!]] A bad test result – and the young committed soldier must go; and as a penalty, he is also faced with a high repayment requirement. This construction is complicated, is administratively intensive and creates new injustice, therefore does not find our consent. Federal Minister! Our offer is: This repayment obligation must fall if you want us in the boat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One point has yet to be raised, ladies and gentlemen, as amendments to the Military Power Act, which you now have to make, because you are obliged to do so by the Constitutional Court. This only confirms our concerns and shows how important it was that we at the time rejected this unconstitutional military power law. And ours. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say the following: Rethinking You are this most expensive misjudgment of the Second Republic, the purchase of the Eurofighters! [[Abg. Scheibner: That had to come to a close!]] Use the exit clause, because only in this way can you prevent this reform from becoming a purely savings programme at the expense of the security of our country! And that doesn't get our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6166	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. He also speaks to us for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6188	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We talked about Europe at the present hour, and I do not wish to mention that this Europe project, in which we are a member with equal responsibility, is a European peace project, a successful project that has never been achieved in the past. And in this way we should not turn around, but go on. This is the central message in terms of security! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Since the results of the Reform Commission, the Austrian Federal Army has set itself the goal of becoming slimmer, even more efficient, as well as becoming more mobile and effective for Austria and for international tasks in order to fulfil these tasks. The Wehrrechtsverwicklungsgesetz, which is available today, is an essential step in the implementation of these reform efforts. The SPÖ has today pointed out that it has been calling for a six-month reduction in the basic defence service for decades. – Yes, but she never did. [[Abg. May. Worm: They were against it!]] Kreisky, when he got here, promised us: Six months are enough! This government with the ÖVP now implements this, we can announce the message to young people: Yes, from January next year, everyone can trust that the ground defense service will only have to be performed for more than six months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The objection that a minister that the Minister of Defense could not be able or could not have a legal position to shorten the ground defense with instructions is simply not correct. That is to say, we decide today that the law will apply from 2008 onwards, but that every basic defence officer will have the security of leaving the ground at six months' time and will no longer be called in for a military exercise. This is security for young people, that is security for their parents, but also for the economy that can rely on it. And this ground defense service will continue to make it more attractive – we should also draw this out: There will be rewards, cash benefits, benefits in kind so that this ground defense service becomes more attractive. I would like to remind you that the training of trainers, for example at the Heeres subofficiiersakademie, takes into account that particular attention is paid to the educational aspect. When there were the problems with the exercises of a hostage taking, the Federal Minister responded immediately and made an exact difference between the cadre and the basic defenses by means of training rules. Now everyone knows what the framework training and what the basic military training is all about. Ladies and gentlemen! Another focus of the Wehrrechtsamlungsgesetz is that, in the future, 12 months of training can be done. The aim is to get large personnel resources and to offer more opportunities to women as well. The monthly fee for this will now be increased from € 256 net to € 824, more than tripled. This is already an incentive to stay with the German army for a longer time, perhaps also as a professional soldier or to complete military exercises in the future. The opening of the militia to women is an essential part of this reform, because we – already more than 200 women in the German army – are opening women up even better opportunities for a professional career in the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context – Mr Gaál has pointed out that someone who does not serve these twelve months needs to repay the money – I am submitting an amendment. It is available to you and essentially provides for the aliquotation of the repayment; so if a basic defence officer who has committed himself for twelve months ceases earlier, then he must repay the shares aliquot and not the whole. A second aspect of this application is that the military premium for the claimants is already starting from 1. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! Another important point of the Wehrrechtsamlungsgesetz is that we give the militia a corresponding priority. The German government reform has made it known that the militia should be given more importance: The military battalions will be subordinated to the military commanders in the individual federal states, so that in the event of disasters, as well as in the use of security, the soldiers will be able to be made available to those soldiers who know the country and the people and then can provide really effective assistance and support on the ground – a very essential matter also for military commanders or a signatory of the importance of the militia battalions. The federal government reform also includes that, if you already say, the federal army must become slimmer, of course reductions are taking place. Of a total of 110 000 soldiers, only 55 000 will be available in the future. "Only" is, of course, relative in this context, because we will also be able to fulfil our tasks at 55 000. Thus, instead of six commanders of the upper lead, there will only be more two, instead of five only four brigades and instead of 57 battalions only more 39. However, the essential thing is: How high is the filling level? How far are these quotas filled? How can they carry out the tasks effectively in the country and abroad? And it is another aspect of security that 10,000 soldiers alone for Austria – and that always! – are made available if the German army is needed for the protection and assistance of the Austrian population. As a very essential aspect for the international tasks, 1,500 men will be permanently available. Of course, we are given a bitter pill with the closure of barracks. It is interesting to note that some Members or Mr. Landeshauptmann's deputy, Haider, in Upper Austria, have only spoken populistly and have achieved the success of the head of state Dr. Pühringer, namely that only one barracks is closed – unfortunately God's near me, but at least it's only a barracks that has to be closed – to make it bad and populist, it's not going to be in question and you'll do everything against it. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: The federal government reform and today's bill serve to further ensure that we can protect and support the people of our country with the German army. Finally, I would point out that the procurement of Eurofighters is a reasonable, cost-effective procurement that serves the security of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6254	The amendment tabled by Mr Murauer in his fundamentals and key statements by Mr Murauer, Dr. Bösch, colleagues on the government template concerning a federal law, which amends the Wehrgesetz 2001, the Heeresdisciplinarygesetz 2002, the Heeresweisegesetz 2001, the Auslandsatztgesetz 2001, the Munitionslagergesetz 2003, the Military Acknowledgement Act 2002 and the Military Power Act – Wehrrechtsammengesetz 2005 – as amended by the Committee Report 955 of the Supplements is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Because of its size, it is distributed to all Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6507	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6528	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Platter, first of all, the only point in which we certainly agree on the number: I can give you a very warm welcome to 51. Happy birthday. This number, that is, 51, I do not dispute in the debate. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] On all the other numbers, I fear, we are of a different opinion. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: After all!]] Today, there is a bill to shorten military service, as well as a plan to sell barracks. The Federal Government, the government majority today wants to decide to leave the presence service in Austria for eight months by 2008 and then cut it to six months. That was the proposal of the Freeman – both Freedom Groups – and the ÖVP has joined this proposal. There is also a Minister's commitment to prefer this reduction with an instruction from 2008 to 2006. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A assurance!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] Every minister who signs one, two weeks, two months later, that it will be extended to eight months again, has erased it with a signature again, with a signature cancelled again! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Which minister will do this? The Günther Platterniet!]] And especially in times of a cabinet bowl, since one does not know exactly how long a minister remains in office, as the Minister of Defence is called in two months, it is not particularly good and does not create a lot of confidence when a ministerial signature is to replace a law. [[Call the ÖVP:Günther Platter!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since there's a three-party consensus here that military service from 1st century onwards. January 2006 is to be reduced to six months, we want to create and bring the legal security of this reduction – I am sure the SPÖ will support it; and I am sure that the ÖVP will want to support it – an amendment that has already been distributed, an obligation to do so from 1 January 2006. Shorten January 2006 to six months. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party to finally stand open to their Minister and to create legal certainty! It can't be that, just because you can't agree with the liberals on this issue, instructions must change laws, that constitutionally unclear states exist, and that the ministers of the future don't know if they're from 1. January 2006 will be withdrawn for six or eight months! [[Abg. May. Control: Six!]] Furthermore, our proposal is quite different, and that is simply the proposal to inform people in a serious way: As of 2009, we will no longer discuss: six months or eight months, since there will be no further assistance at the Austrian eastern borders, since we will no longer have a Schengen external border, since there will be nothing more to be guarded by the Federal Army and by present servants, and we will have to find out whether young men will continue to be forced to military service for six months without any sense or whether the presence service will finally be abolished. – And I hope, after we have not been able to agree now that a majority in this House will decide by 2008 at the latest, 2009 on the overdue abolition of the present service. - That's the first one. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second is the question of the barracks. I am well aware that the Minister of Defence has at least partially enforced a Phalanx of national leaders and SPÖs and has remained with some of his plans. Only, Mr Minister of Defence, even if yesterday was properly celebrated, should we still remain with the right figures: The 1 billion € proceeds from barracks sales that you have announced are not even available in internal papers of the Ministry of Defence. The highest number of wishes that exist internally is € 700 million. According to the internal estimates of your home, €300 to €400 million remain, according to what the national leaders have now received as gifts again. You know as well as I, Federal Minister, you will not be able to achieve the promised share of the reform on this first sale, which we consider to be useful, but you will not be able to achieve the objectives of financing. You promised the Austrian population 40 percent of the properties, you presented 20 percent – worth – to the public yesterday. You have fulfilled half of your promise, you have remained guilty of half your promise. And you've done something that might be tactically understandable, but I don't understand it politically: They have yielded to absurd barracks populism in individual, not unimportant cases. You know that the barracks in Upper Austria, in Lower Austria, in Salzburg and in the Styria where you surrendered must be closed in three, four years, because then there will no longer be these units. You could say to the people there today, fairly: Yes, the Waldviertler barracks will be locked in three years. Yes, Tamsweg must be locked in three years. Aigen will probably be locked in earlier, because we cannot afford it and because the units are no longer available. [[Abg. Murauer: Have you got a list again, Mr. Pilz?]] With the tip of the SPÖ you form a united front for the preservation of empty barracks and tell the people: There is nothing more important for the future of disadvantaged regions than empty barracks. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr. Pilz! Tell me which one you want to lock!]] And then the SPÖ also fights for the complete preservation of the powerful Austrian military music. Then I take away from the debates of the last days an attitude of the SPÖ-new for military music and against the euro and slowly ask myself: What has happened to the politics of this party? Is a military music band really more important than a clear commitment to the European Union in a serious crisis situation? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: For cast builders already!]] Is it really important to defend empty-standing barracks than to say that European peace policy is also at a crossroads with the success of the German army reform? Is it not important to do everything from the federal reform to a second attempt at more European democracy to stick to the consensus we already had in this House? Yeah, it's right. The French people force us to reassess some questions in Europe completely. France has put the social issue on the Union's agenda, and France has also put some important issues of peace not only for Brussels but for all the countries involved. – Because it is important to answer these questions, we have decided to implement a joint military reform on the Europeanisation of the structures of peace. Four parties have decided to give up the classical state defense and to participate in a European peace project – and suddenly the empty barracks and the defense of every Tshinelle and every tuba ends up. That is where Austria deserves better, and there Europe has earned better! I'm pleading for this: Let us re-establish the consensus of the German Parliamentary Reform Commission, which was at least a three-and-a-half-party consensus, on the great objectives of the Austrian peace policy! Let us return to Europe, and finally let us stop with this small-carated barracks and cchinella populism! It's enough, ladies and gentlemen! With every populist act of this kind, you force the people who listen to you to turn away not only from Europe but also from your policies. And if at least that's the price you don't want to pay, it would be a way of rethinking, peace-politically to think, to think European and to take the French challenge seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6705	The amendment tabled by Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is now being duplicated and distributed in the broad outlines of Mr Pilz's amendment because of its scope and is being debated. It concerns the report of the National Defence Committee 955 of the Supplements, precisely those laws for which there has already been an amendment. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6825	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. He also speaks to us for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6847	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of the Austrian federal army has now reached its implementation stage following the decisions of the German Federal Force Reform Commission, and this law on military law, which we are debating today and will also decide on, with its amendments, is an essential step in the implementation of this federal reform. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what distinguishes us from the Greens, from my previous speaker, Mr Pilz: We liberals have committed ourselves to this Wehrrechtsamlungsgesetz for everything that will benefit the Austrian federal army and security policy. The opposite is the case with the Greens, and you have once again demonstrated this, Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We liberals were able to make substantial improvements in this law on the right to change. Together with the coalition partner, it has succeeded in ensuring an improvement in the salary of longer servants, making money and property premiums possible not only for professional, but also for military soldiers. Es will improve the financial situation for military personnel. Mr Murauer has already explained the improvement in the payment of any premiums, and I can save myself. Some of the essential aspects of the German government reform are included in this law on military law today, and we liberals will therefore also agree with it. In order to shorten the service time: I don't think it would have been better for us to implement this reform with eight months of military service. We believe that all the challenges that come to the Austrian army by at least 2008 could have been better dealt with with with by eight months of military service. We had to be instructed by you by the SPÖ and also by the coalition partner of a better one. We have accepted that we have landed in a comfortable minority on this issue and have tried to make the most of this situation. Ladies and gentlemen! With this solution today, that from 2008 onwards we will define this reduction in military service time and until then give the Minister the freedom to act with instructions, with this possibility no legal uncertainty has arisen, Mr Gaál! This is the necessary consequence of the decisions of the Federal Hero-Reform Commission! With this variant, ladies and gentlemen, we give you all the freedom to comply with the decisions of the Reform Commission. And in the reform commission, we decided that we should look at a reduction in the military service time at the earliest beginning of 2007, after the border crossing on the eastern border, and that the border use at the eastern border should not be limited. We are experiencing the new uncertainty in the European structures at this time too. It is all the more important that national basic competences should also be maintained in security policy, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is the right solution in the matter of reduction of military service time. We liberals will agree to this variant. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The federal government reform brings clearer structures into the Hierarchies; my previous speakers have responded. We will reduce the overall mobility strength to 55 000 people, we will have four brigades. The Federal Minister has also stated clearly, here in front of Parliament and in front of the public, that despite the reduction of military service time, 10,000 soldiers are permanently available for any assistance in the country. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been an essential point for us liberals. After this reform, the Austrian Federal Army must be able to ensure its two major areas: its internal tasks and its performance at international level abroad. This reform ensures that this task is carried out mainly domestically. In particular, home protection, which is an essential element in order to be able to carry the credibility of a security policy to the outside of the people, is still possible with these new structures. The regional command structure remains. We believe it is important that, in a state like the Republic of Austria, the federal states, too, should be involved in this important issue of "security policy" that they should be respected in their concerns. We will continue to have military orders, but we have also provided the military authorities with the opportunity to have independent structured military associations, which will also be able to carry out many regional tasks. However, they will not only do that, but also help to improve the quality of life. The present forces, which we have also been dislodged about the entire federal territory, grew to ensure, but also to form an expert pool from which the Austrian federal army, not least as far as its international tasks are concerned, will be able to draw up again and again. The financial incentive for the militia is ensured by this law on military rights, a financial incentive which is particularly important. By abolishing the military exercises and by completely new restructuring, including modernisation of the militia, and by increasing the efficiency of the military organizations and the military soldiers available in the future, this financial incentive is important, especially because it is likely that we will only be able to work on a voluntary military for the future. It is clear that, in these areas too, the financial incentives must be ensured so that the sufficient number of soldiers is available for this career. The fact that we see the domestic task as the first priority of fulfilling the tasks of the Federal Army is very important, Mr. Federal Minister, and I welcome the fact that the establishment and maintenance of domestic capacity is the first priority. Because only when we ensure the fulfilment of domestic tasks can we justify to the population that we send forces to international tasks abroad. Ensuring the completion of domestic tasks is therefore also politically the right way, and it must have first priority. It is not the measure of the quality of the associations used on their organisation and on their equipment; this scale will continue to be applied to foreign operations because higher demands are made there. But domestic use must be the political priority, and I welcome this as a liberal, and that you have explained this often, Minister of the State, I support it. The tasks abroad are now also to be seen in a new light through events at European level. It will not change anything serious from today to tomorrow for the Austrian Federal Army in those efforts in which we are already working, but it will not save us from re-evaluating our cooperation at European level, but also in the partnership for peace within NATO, and as the Austrian Federal Government, it will also be clear to us that we need a new foreign policy and a new security policy here. We will no longer be able to use that European constitution as a basis for this policy in the coming months and years, but we must succeed in formulating a new strategy here, a new foreign and security policy of the Austrian Federal Government and also of the Austrian National Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial expenditure needed to implement this reform must be ensured. This is a challenge for every government, including for these. We must be aware, however, that all these measures, if we take them seriously, will also require the necessary budget resources. We will therefore continue to support you, Mr Federal Minister, also within the Federal Government on the way to more budget for the Austrian Federal Army, because we are liberals of the view that security policy is an essential pillar of the entire state policy. That is why, Minister of State, I believe that the Austrian Federal Army will take a good turn in this reform in the next few years. We Freeman support you in this form, but will allow us to do so or Let's make our comments another time. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6943	Now, Mr Platter, the Federal Minister, is speaking to us. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6964	Mr National Council President! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The reform work 2010 has been completed, and I now allow myself to present to you, Mr National Council President, the newly printed reform book “Austrian Federal Hegemony 2010 – Realization”, while at the same time allowing me to make this book available to you, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[the speaker shall keep this up-to-date]] I would like to thank my employees who worked for it day and night. Thank you very much! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman, as well as the Abg. May. Worm.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, there is a very broad consensus for the federal reform of the army. The Federal Government Reform Commission has actually unanimously adopted this reform work. The National Security Council has unanimously taken note of the key points of this federal reform across all sides of the party. There is also a unanimous Council of Ministers decision. We also have the approval of all the heads of state in the very, very critical question of shrimping. This reform therefore stands on a very broad, good, solid ground. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say clearly that the march is made for the new, modern Austrian federal army. The start of the future is now beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, have made a dedicated schedule. Just about a year ago, I received the recommendations from the Federal Force Reform Commission, and I have always hoped that implementation will begin in the second half of 2005. All of this has been strictly respected, because it is necessary that reforms be made quickly, in the interests of the security of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look closely at the threat scenarios, you notice that the risks and dangers are completely different than they were in the past. The answer is that, of course, reforms of the armies must be carried out, not only here in Austria, but throughout the European Union. They must therefore be carried out in order to achieve greater security. That is why domestic tasks and foreign tasks are equally important. I guarantee here and today that, for domestic tasks, we will provide at least 10 000 soldiers, regardless of border use, regardless of foreign activities, so that we can give protection and help to the people so that we can carry out security police assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, of course there is also active airspace monitoring. We are still at the disposal of disasters, as was the case in the past. The population attaches great importance to this. - I guarantee that! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] As far as foreign activities are concerned, Austria cannot be the same as the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, as is the situation in Kosovo. Greater stability in these regions means more security for Europe and more security for Austria. That is why we will provide even more services abroad. 1 500 soldiers can be permanently sent abroad, in the medium term we will provide a frame brigade of 3,500 soldiers. It was necessary to put in place appropriate measures. It is necessary that the Austrian federal army becomes more efficient, professional and international. That's why we need to slim down in the administration. In future, we will have more soldiers in the force and less in the administration. That means: At present we have around 8,000 in the force, and in the future we will have over 12,000 soldiers in the force. This is a good thing for the regions. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] As far as the security package I have completed with the countries is concerned, this means that no soldier in the federal states will be less. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Scheibner and Mr Bösch.]] It was also important to me that we precisely regulate territorial competence. Therefore, military commanders will continue to be responsible if assistance missions in the federal states need to be made or when disaster operations are to be organised. This has proved successful in the past, which will continue in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the properties. The Federal Reform Commission has given me the recommendation that we should sell up to – I emphasize – 40 percent of the properties. The result in consensus with all the national leaders was that we can sell 37 percent of the properties. If we add small subareas, we will reach 40 percent. I have already told you that it was very important for me to reach consensus with the federal states, because security policy is not a matter of a single minister or of some Members, security policy means that we must have the highest acceptance here in the House and in the federal states. That was successful. I think that's a good thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] How's it going? – I have already given the order to start implementation. The "Management Bundesheer 2010" will begin with the implementation. I really want to because many officers and generals are present here, thank you for how professional work has been done. And just as professional is the realization, the implementation is carried out. – Thank you very much for that. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] On the question of six months of military service. This is widely discussed here, and I think that is all right. I am glad that a decision is being taken today, and I hope that the majority of Members will see it in such a way that we can make it clear that a legal regime for the reduction of the basic defence service from eight months to six months from 1st. January 2008 will take place, but by my instructions from 1 January 2008 onwards. January 2006 only more than six months of ground military service without troop exercises must be performed – this is clarified – for a temporary period: until 31. ==References== So every basic defender, every young person who has to enter the federal army, knows that from 1st century onwards. In January 2006, only six months of basic military service must be provided. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, a very important measure is also being adopted today. It will allow women to get more attractive employment in the Austrian federal army. On the one hand, the biggest criticism point – and I believe this one has come from all parties – was that women in the Austrian federal army deserve too little, and on the other hand, that the sports performance limits are too high. With regard to performance limits, we have provided that on the one hand it is easier to enter the Austrian federal army, on the other hand every woman who is ready to go to the Austrian federal army will earn the triple of what was the case now: currently 250 €, in the future 824 € net. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore warmly welcome the women to the Austrian Federal Army. That's really an interesting activity. At the same time, from the date of this announcement, those basic defense servants who are ready to volunteer for military service will also receive €824. This is a very important matter, an incredibly important step on the part of the Austrian Federal Army. What we need is young soldiers who are ready for use for greater security in Austria and beyond! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7128	As the next speaker, Mr Prehauser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7149	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to start by referring to the comments made by some previous speakers. I would like to thank Mr Gaál for the annoyed way in which the analysis of this reform was prepared, which made it possible to understand the details as well. With regard to Mr Murauer, because he has put the question of responsibility in the room, I would like to say the following: The Social Democrats have been showing extreme responsibility in this House for 120 years. This has been paid with sweat and tears, partly also with human life. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister said that this result is based on a broad consensus. He forgot one thing. I'm allowed on an APA release today, 8. June, come back, army personnel representative Fuchs is not supposed to be unknown to you, as it says: ‘Fuchs stressed that the Central Committee had not yet agreed to the new Garnisation.’ So: The staff themselves is not yet involved in such a way that it can say yes to the fullest. I mean, that would be important. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, however, I admit that the Social Democrats are positively surprised, even astounded, that the government – here the ÖVP – has taken up a good idea of the Social Democrats, namely to shorten military service to six months. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You don't have to laugh at all! Think a little bit! At the beginning of the 1970s it was already Kreisky, who demanded six months. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Assigned: At that time the security situation was different. Since 1990, it has also changed dramatically in Europe. It took 15 years to make sure that six months were good. [[Abg. Big Truck: Nine months are enough...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome these six months. I regret this decision for six months, however, because we are unable to anchor it by law today in such a way that it is with 1. January next year is valid. An instruction – Mr Pilz has noted it – may also be necessary to examine constitutionally. Whether it is holding, it will turn out, but the young people, the men and women who serve in the federal army should have economic orientations and know how long they are going to take. I also think of many companies that employ young people. These too must be planned. They know that in times like those where jobs are scarce, an enterprise must also be able to plan economically. And a good company needs excellent labor. The young people who enjoy a good training with us are essential there. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, it should be noted that this is brought to people by the mouths of different politicians. The Federal Chancellor has already said: It will be decided in this way – and today we decide something else. We should think here about why this is so. No one could tell us why this will only be possible in 2008. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'll tell you then!]] Mr Scheibner, I do not think that you hope to be no longer in the government until then and do not have to be responsible for it. I don't suppose so. I think you should go deeper in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You'll be surprised!]] It is clear that the ÖVP is subject to a corresponding pressure from the BZÖ and the FPÖ to submit to this decision. In reality, the Federal Chancellor is inconsistent and has the small coalition partners – he has two: FPÖ and BZÖ – bended. In the end, he had to admit that he was not strong enough on this point to decide in advance with other parties who would have been willing to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first approach to an internal and internal dispute in which you cannot reach agreement. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was no fight!]] It's about preserving the face. We understand that too. But to keep the face on the back of the young people, if you don't have the political courage, I think I'm worried and for the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: At least we do not do party politics on the back of security policy!]] Mr Scheibner, I am amazed and admire: Your self-destructive drive. 70 percent of Austrians want to see the military service maintained by law from 1st century onwards. Next year, only six months are expected to last. [[Abg. Scheibner: We are politicians with responsibility!]] I admire your self-destructive drive. I think he's incredibly brave, but I can tell you: We're going another way, we want to run defence policy with the public. [[Abg. Scheibner: You go the way of populism! It's dangerous in security policy!]] We're on it! I can say the following: Mr Federal Minister, the SPÖ makes a fair offer to the Federal Government and the ÖVP: The SPÖ representatives agree with you on a request which requires military service by law and thus by obligation from 1. Shortened to six months in January 2006: without uncertainties, without fins, without uncertainty. We can determine the duration of the service today and here, legally secured, at six months. You just have to want it, the SPÖ is ready for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to allow this to happen, I propose an amendment and ask the President to have it duplicated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We should give the young men the assurance that their service will actually last only six months. The SPÖ extends its hand to you, Mr Federal Minister, for this agreement. Get them in the interests of all basic defence workers and in the interests of a stable security policy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7309	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Gaál, Mr Prehauser and Mr Colleagues, is explained in his key points, supported accordingly and is under negotiation. It will also be distributed and annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7393	The next speaker is Mr Dr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7424	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Do you know what a staircase of parliamentary history is? – As a stairway of history, it would be a decoder. – A staircase of parliamentary history is it when a SPÖ Federal Chancellor announced 36 years ago that six months are enough, and today – 36 years after that! – the spokesperson of the Socialist Group says: [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] I say an absolute yes to the demand “six months are enough”, but we will not agree because we do not agree with the procedure. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – I have not yet experienced such a thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think that Mr Gaál has always made a fair effort in terms of national defence matters. What I find strange is that the SPÖ obviously does not find a line. At that time, 36 years ago, in an extremely risky time – that was the time of the Cold War – she was absolutely committed to a reduction, but could not carry it out because one could not risk it! That was just the time after the Hungarian uprising, the time when the Prague spring was rolled down by Soviet tanks. That was the time, you have to say that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Now that we really have the opportunity to carry it out, you're afraid of it all at once! The fact is that the situation has changed enormously and that, at least now, as our neighbours are not only members of NATO, but also members of the European Union – including the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia – there has been a completely changed security situation in which one can say a yes to such a measure. What needs to be ensured is undoubtedly that the security needs of the domestic as well as the necessary foreign operations must be secured. That is why I considered the procedure of Mr Platter to be excellent. He has not only commissioned a small Commission or a project team to carry out this reform, but he has tried to “get out” relatively wide: He has used experts from all areas, politicians from all parties who have worked together with the military to develop the reform. There has been a consensus on quite difficult issues. There were about the questions: How many soldiers do we need? Shouldn't we turn to a professional force? What will the arms look like in the future? – These were all important questions, and some of them were not so easy to answer! I would just like to point out that, for example, the question of “obligation – yes or no?” is being discussed in Germany today. This is the editorial in one of the most prestigious European newspapers, the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”. [[The speaker keeps the above-mentioned newspaper up to date.]] These journalists, too, conclude that it is right to maintain the obligation of military service, because the whole area of internal security is not yet estimated so far in the face of growing terrorism that one can truly say good conscience that one can completely miss it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For foreign operations, the professional army is undoubtedly superior and the right answer. However, if we remember that in Austria we have important road systems, railway systems and energy systems running through our country, and we may be exposed to a risk situation in which it is important that a large number of soldiers can quickly be brought forward for protection purposes, then the general obligation of military service is still the right answer. I therefore believe that this step, to say that we are still in the existing system, but we are deliberately reducing the service time to six months, since we can afford it today, is the right answer. It is at least an answer that everyone can go with. I am pleased that this consensus has come about. However, I do not understand the line of opposition that if there is still no consensus in Parliament on this consensus in the Federal Parliamentary Reform Commission, which has still been held under a Social Democratic chairman, in the National Security Council and in the Council of Ministers, there is still no reason to justify it. No one throughout the country will think you are a state-bearing party if you continue this path. [[Abg. Gaál: Legal security! We are talking about legal certainty! We're on the right path!]] That is why I say only one thing, ladies and gentlemen: Leave off this line! Take an example of how Mr Platter, Federal Minister, has and will carry out this reform! That's not an end yet! Of course there are also open questions: How to carry out this change in the barracks area? – I’m absolutely sure: He's a man who's looking for the conversation with those affected. Just as he spoke to the parties before, just as he spoke to the experts inside and outside the federal army, he will of course also speak with his staff representatives. It will enter the dialogue directly with those concerned and will try to bring about the best possible common solution with them. I wish, because I am absolutely convinced: Security for our country is one of the most important goods for people! We must do everything we can to ensure this security for the future. You're not supposed to take a chance! You're supposed to do that in consensus! The foreign and security policy should, as far as possible, remain outside the political dispute! That is why I would like to continue to wish you so much success in the future, Mr Federal Minister. If you continue your journey, then an optimal and a maximum level of safety in Austria and Europe is done!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7506	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7527	Mr President. Federal Minister! My predecessor does not understand the attitude of the opposition. This is because you, Mr. Federal Minister, have not answered very relevant questions. The work of the Federal Force Reform Commission is greatly praised here. – Well, there are compromises to which one can stand politically. However, it is also a question of what the compromise formula for the reduction of military service time in terms of specificity looks like. In politics, it is always useful and possible to make compromises if something is to be implemented. But there are also lazy compromises! And this one seems to me to be such. As is argued, the reduction of military service time from 2008 onwards is nevertheless a useful thing, and as of 2006, it is also a useful matter. The difference is that it should first come about with the corresponding issues and regulations of the ministry. I'm wondering what's going on. – The formula is basically quite simple: lazy coalition, lazy compromise! That's quite understandable and simple. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we should not stop at this point for so long, but rather look at the bigger issues of the federal reform. The major issues include financing issues. In this respect, you have remained guilty of any answer, Mr. Federal Minister! There is still the problem that the purchase policy of the federal army and your department has been completely wrong for years. Not only do tanks have to be put on hold again or sold with huge losses – it has been a long time since that you don't need to invest like this, but please! The next procurement is the most tragic and the worst in this case: This is the planned purchase of Eurofighter fighters. You won't be surprised if we want to pick up a little example of this. The federal government reform costs money. It must be clear to everyone. This is understandable because any restructuring and innovation, even if it later brings savings effects, can cost more and may also, for these reasons. As you want to have the defense budget under control in the next few years, hide for good reasons. The army reform, as it currently looks, costs – you dispute it, but the numbers come from your house – around €2 billion, if not more. But there's already the sale of property. The only numbers you mentioned today were: 37 and 40 percent of real estate sales. – Yes, but you obviously mean it so that you count the inventory items together here and then take out each one of them again and say: Okay, now we have reduced regardless of size and volume of proceeds. – That’s not how the bill goes! We looked at this: They generate a maximum of € 300 to 400 million. But there would be much more money needed to keep the numbers. The first pan is therefore the financing gap of the reform itself. Secondly, interception funding, especially the financing of Eurofighters, is because these are the most expensive aircraft – you know that very well – and do not have this military reform at the same time with a semi- glade defense budget. It's totally impossible to think. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally confess to it or present your numbers! Do not even have in the Committee She did it. In the plenary session, one may understand this, as one should speak in beautiful pictures when broadcasting television. I'm still making the luxury of feeling your teeth with the numbers. Once again, I say – the Eurofighter costs explode by the way –: 2 billion € Purchasing costs for the number plus financing, 500 million € in additional system costs, just as was just revealed by the Court of Auditors, and 100 million € annually in operating costs. You want to deny that too. But you will not get far with it, because we can also interpret these figures from your house in this direction. This also results in 1 billion € in 10 years. €3.5 billion Eurofighter procurement costs for the next ten years! 2 to 2.5 billion € of reform costs in this area. Calculate this together! That's where you want to explain to us that you're coming out with a half a reasonable, constant defense budget?! – No, we are certainly not available for this story! In our opinion, the defence budget does not have to rise. I do not want to say that Austria, compared with other countries, gets into the arms business. I don't mean that. But we Greens do not want the defense budget to rise! [[Abg. Murauer: Who is “we”?]] To do this, you should also declare yourself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, it is not the task of the Republic of Austria to relocate the central European arms industry with this Eurofighter acquisition. This should also be said on this occasion, because there would have been quite different possibilities. It is even the question of what are the current threats to which you really have to ask yourself. [[Abg. Scheibner: Eben! Say it!]] They are certainly not such that we have to meet them with a fighter plane designed in the 1980s. Even when it comes to international operations, do you think that there will be anyone waiting for any Austrian pilots to participate in these operations with Austrian aircraft that are "thanks to God, anyway not equipped with these weapons"? This is the completely wrong concept you are looking at here, the completely wrong concept! – Yes, for airspace surveillance it would have done quite other aircraft too. [[Abg. Scheibner: airspace surveillance!]] You know that very well. [[Abg. Fauland: Which one?]] It hangs in the back and in the front, you can't finance it either! That's not right. That is why I say: get out of this Eurofighter contract! Every day before is better because the conditions are better. And best of all, in the Committee of Inquiry, so that it can finally be seen who is responsible for this financial disaster and, ultimately, defence disaster. Let's talk about it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria has other tasks, including in the future and also in the new European “peace architecture” if I can take over the high-performance word. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which one?]] – After that, those who have long been involved in our role as a neutral state. [[Abg. Scheibner: Say it! Which one?]] These are certainly not the ones that cost ad hoc as much money as the procurement of the Eurofighters. That's quite clear. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which one?]] – Look, you know it: It is the participation in the low or lower tasks of Petersberg. [[Abg. Scheibner: What are “low Petersberg tasks ”? You know very well that...!]] – Of course, of course! These are not to be dealt with by the acquisition of combat aircraft. We also do not need military service in this form, as it is planned. That's not right in the back and in the front. Finally, I would like to say that the tragedy in this country – which I must stress further – is also with a view to the SPÖ: [[Abg. Fauland: We have just experienced them!]] It is operated here on every front populism, the apostrophic barracks populism and similar things more. That doesn't make any sense! It does not make sense in this country to be able to block everything possible, which is basically recognized as reasonable, constantly. This attitude must also be cleaned up!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7699	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7720	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of reports and discussions on military reforms – which is now true again – the main focus is on: How can you shorten as much as possible, for example, military service? How can you close as many barracks and locations as possible? How can you reduce as many staff as possible? How can you sell as much equipment as possible? How can you save as much money as possible? – What goes on completely in such discussions is the question: What are the tasks of security policy that we have to fulfil? And when we define the tasks, with which device, with what personnel and with what breakdowns and at which locations do we do this? – I would like to have this discussion, ladies and gentlemen, and not the discussion: as little as possible federal army is best! - No, I don't. We need to do this in Austria as effectively as possible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Kogler, that is exactly what you said again. How did you say? – Subordinated tasks of Petersberg. - They don't exist! They know very well that Austria has committed itself in the international community to be able to cover the entire spectrum of security tasks – discussed and concluded in Petersberg – not a little sanity, not a little military music, but the entire spectrum of military tasks. We can say that is not what we want – well. But if a red and black government has committed itself to this at the time, when it joins the EU, then on the other hand, one must be able to meet the requirements and the tasks and create the conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, decide something, but then not to lead soldiers adequately equipped and trained in such missions, that would be irresponsible! We do not do this, ladies and gentlemen, but we should also express it openly and honestly here. It should not be forgotten that there is still the danger of international terrorism. It should not be forgotten that there is the danger of weapons of mass destruction – also used by organised crime. It should not be forgotten that there are major disasters. You should not forget this international component either. We should finally stop it! There is no question that this is very popular, Mr Prehauser: six months are enough. – How short do we want to do it? Four weeks, two weeks, no federal army at all? – Federal Light. Very, very popular, no question. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You agree!]] But I'm telling you: That's not my line! For 15 years I have been working here for security policy, and for 12 years I have been a military soldier in the Austrian Federal Army. This is not the courage to self-destruct, it is the courage to the truth, and that is the courage to be responsible for the security of this country and the population. And this courage is not forbidden, but it should be demanded of you, ladies and gentlemen here in the House! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But it is not a question of telling the population for decades that the neutrality, the UN-City, the beautiful landscape and the kindness of the population are sufficient for the guarantee of our security, then you may also be able to make a mood with debates about the reduction of the military service time and the abolition of the federal army. We don't want this, ladies and gentlemen. We don't want a disaster because we can't guarantee security, then we're looking for those responsible. This does not help the population. I can still remember a discussion in 2002 when it was – and it was very popular – that 6,000 soldiers were enough, a discussion led by the Greens and the SPÖ. A few weeks later, 12,000 soldiers were in the flood. That's what everyone has praised, but now they forget it again. What would you have said, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, with your 6 000 soldiers of the population if you could not have guaranteed security? You should say this openly and honestly here! That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, we have said – and I say this here in all openness and clarity – that the reduction of military service by 2006 is not possible from our point of view, and you also have it! And now you are bringing in all the applications that are different here, even though you yourself – all of you; an almost unanimous decision – have decided to do so in the Federal Reform Commission. It states in the report that the reduction of military service is possible at the earliest in 2007. Only after the removal of assistance and only when the framework conditions are in place – where there is now also an incentive system for the military; and there were good negotiations – if the incentive systems and the accompanying measures are taken, could the military service time be reduced. – Yes, that is what we are saying, and therefore also our approval of this legal regulation, with 1. January 2008. In fact, we are implementing what you have decided in the Federal Reform Commission. We also support the assessment that an early reduction of the military service would cause problems in the performance of the tasks of the Austrian federal army – nothing else! And this is the courage to the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition I would also expect from you here! [[Abg. Faul: Tell the Minister of Defense!]] It is the responsibility or the responsibility of the Minister of Defence to ensure that this is covered by it by 2008. He's got this to guarantee. All right, we hope it's going to be that way. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] From our point of view – and you have also said so in the Federal Force Reform Commission – a reduction of the military service is only possible in the year 2008. In our opinion, the incentive systems must be continued, this reform must also be implemented – a genuinely courageous approach, including from the sites, not a question. The right to serve must also be adapted accordingly, which is still missing, because of course we want to go in the direction of a professionalised army, on a voluntary basis. Further steps need to be taken. Now to the financial resources. – Of course, the barracks closures and sales are an important point. If it is not enough, we will have to decide on additional budget resources for the implementation of this reform, because it cannot be said that: We have so much money at our disposal, and if that's not enough, we'll cut down on safety! Security is one of the most important tasks of every state, and it cannot be good enough for us, and for that we must also spend the necessary time, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Federal Minister, when it comes to acting accordingly with the Minister of Finance, you will have our support. I remember because the Eurofighter procurement has already been mentioned here: One should also admit that airspace monitoring is one of the tasks of security policy that is necessary every day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] It cannot be required to prevent American fighter planes from flying over Austria, and at the same time it does not want to allow for the real enforcement of this ban. This too is an inconsistency of your security policy, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. At that time, the Minister of Finance, when we reduced the number of pieces, assured that the difference that saved money is made available for the defence of the state, would be necessary for the implementation of this reform. So it would be useful to remind the Minister of Finance of this promise. Then we really make a security policy that guarantees that this country will be one of the safest in Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7824	Ladies and gentlemen! The television broadcast of the ongoing discussion runs until 12 noon. In accordance with an agreement in the Presidency, I now give the speaking time for the last round with 6 minutes per speaker. Mrs Stadlbauer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7851	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Scheibner, on the subject of Eurofighter: Airspace monitoring, yes, we confess to that, but we do not need sintering combat bombs. [[Abg. Scheibner: What else?]] The device you want to purchase serves the air battle and not airspace surveillance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Fassleven! You can knowingly misinterpret things, you are a true master in them. It seems that only the long - term memory is running so properly. But I want to help you a little bit on the jumps. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the Committee, the SPÖ has a request for a reduction of the basic defence service to six months per 1st. Introduced in January 2006, on a legal basis – and you voted against exactly! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats voted against this request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In return, however, the SPÖ Group is very likely to apply for the ÖVP for the legal reduction of the military service by 1st. January 2008 voted. So we did not reject this in committee. But we are now dealing with legal certainty. [[Abg. Murauer: That's what we're going to see today!]] Because you have spoken so much about “state-bearing parties”: My understanding of a state-bearing party is that we ensure legal certainty. But you don't do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For more than five years, it has been a reality in Austria that women provide military service to the German army. This was never really the most pressing concern for the SPÖ, quite the contrary to the ÖVP, which has repeatedly called for the opening of the doors to the German army for women, but we have then made sure that there are at least good rules for women in the federal army. Prime Minister Prammer was at the time responsible for the fact that there are good rules in the sense of women. Today, five years later, we accept the reality that women opt for the federal army, and we want to create even better opportunities for women. We have analysed the following three problem areas: Firstly, the high rate of failure. – Between 80 and 90 per cent of the women who have completed the aptitude test leave again for a variety of reasons within the first three years. We have already discussed this a number of times, but there is still no solution to it or no willingness to deal with it. Secondly, the payment. – Women do not have to do any military duty, and that is a good thing, it should remain the same. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Women have repeatedly been sold their commitment to the federal army with the fact that this is a professional perspective, and therefore the payment must be corresponding. Thirdly, the admission criteria. – 65 percent of women do not take up the examination due to the controversial review of physical performance. We from the SPÖ Group have responded: On the one hand, we made a request in September 2003, but I do not remember, Minister, that all political groups would immediately have joined our proposals, as you have said before. I am quite sure that I can recall the counter-arguments, especially your group, of the ÖVP. On the other hand, the SPÖ women in the Federal Army Complaint Commission have repeatedly addressed these issues, and thus the awareness has been strengthened that we need to change something. Today I am proud that SPÖ proposals will be implemented. I think this is a very great success for the SPÖ, especially for the women in the Federal Army. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why do you vote against it?]] The biggest success is certainly Minister Platter's rethinking: If in a speech in 2003 he spoke only of “my fellows”, that is, the women completely ruled out, he puts himself today and says what he does not do for the women in the federal army. I think this is a good success, and I think it is very, very positive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have managed – and we will vote in favour – to improve the admission criteria. – A success of the SPÖ! We have also managed to get women a higher income. We have also managed to negotiate the repayment obligation, which there would have been for women as well. This would have been a smooth contradiction to absolute voluntaryness and therefore unconstitutional. – We have negotiated this, that is our success! As Mr Gaál has already said, that the obligation to repay is still valid for men, and I would like to support this with another argument, namely that of a law-based argument: I think that this is a question of pay, even if the repayment is now only more aliquoted, because it is a concrete payment for a specific service done; and the value of this work cannot be simply reduced by leaving. I can't! This is nowhere in the economy, and that can't be the case with the federal army. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ agrees with the reasonable measures, but it is not all perfectly regulated yet, there is still a lot to be done. We're ready for it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7971	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7992	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Stadlbauer, I must say the following at the beginning of my speech: Whoever has something to say and constructively participates in this debate does not have to make himself here and condone other colleagues of the House! To remember this next time, I would really ask you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: What are you talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I represent, in particular, the target group of those young people who are present on the ground; and I can tell you one thing – and you probably know this from your own experience –: The federal army is a very, very important phase in the life of a young person, a phase in which one can be oriented in life, where it is also a matter of looking at what profession one would like to take, whether one wants to start further training tracks, what one's own future will look like. The question is, of course, also: How will the time be with the federal army? Every young person who has a presenceal service has not only the duty, but also the right to spend a meaningful time with the federal army. No human has an interest in wasting valuable time in his life – not even a young person who has to find himself on the labour market. Thus, some adaptations in the federal army were necessary, bringing real progress to young people. I would like to highlight here the central demand and also the central result of the Federal Hero-Reform Commission: the reduction of the military service to six months. The changed framework conditions of our society and also of our system in terms of Europe make this possible. Trainings and exercises will be made more meaningful and efficient in the future. The training process is redefined and the previous military and cadre exercises will remain in the new form of military training for all conscripts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's been 35 years since Bruno Kreisky said: “Six months are enough!” As a member of the Federal Government Reform Commission, I was horrified at the fact that socialist youth voted against the reduction of military service for six months. If the SPÖ today, 35 years later, wants to prevent this important step in the reform of the reduction of military service to six months, I am also horrified. [[Call the SPÖ:Wow!]] I'll tell you: This again shows that these are not all parties that act in accordance with their words. I can hold on to one thing, not only to hold on, but also to prove: It is we who can rely on young people in Austria, because with us today: new situation, 180 days! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But there are, guided by us and proposed by us, also many other improvements for young people. This is starting to take greater account of the suitability, interests, skills and skills when it comes to deciding which place of entry and the date of entry. We have also supported young people to achieve a greater link between the acquired skills in the Federal Army and the qualifications in the labour market in the future. There'll be an invoice vice versa. It was also our duty to protect the role of the military spokesman in the Federal Army and to anchor it better legally, in order to allow for a stronger position in relation to the former military. We were also committed to the fact that women now have the opportunity to carry out all the functions in the future militia. This is a great step forward. No one is forced, there is the principle of voluntaryity, but the possibility is given. Finally, it was also us who have enforced that if you commit yourself for a year – and it always depends on how you can shape the time there – you get an increase, namely 824 € instead of the 256 €. This is a premium system, a stronger incentive for the militia. In the future, this will ensure that our federal army is made more stringent and efficient and that we, the society, can continue to rely on our federal army to have appropriate resources to ensure the security of this country. And the important thing is: The ministers will be able to complete their military service after six months and say: It was a sensible time when I also learned a lot!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8068	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8089	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have already told us this morning that the soldiers will be financially well equipped in the future. [[Abg. Murauer: This is important!]] – Mr Murauer believes that this is important. Then I can ask you: Why Confession You're not entitled to this right, are you, too, civilians? [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a military debate! That's where we talk about the soldiers!]] It will be discussed in the next few weeks the revision of the Civil Service Act. I mean, the recognition that soldiers have in Austria – and they need them too – is the same for civilians, but this one, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – Mr Molterer, I am speaking to you. - don't give it to me. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're right!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is on the agenda in July!]] On the contrary: They want nothing at all in the Civil Service Reform Commission, which has made very clear proposals on what improvements are to be made, of which there is nothing at all to know about! For you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Civil Service Reform Commission was actually just an optical task – with the clarity that you want to leave everything as it is in civil service. [[Abg. May. Molterer shakes his head.]] But that's not how it's done! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Molterer, must explain to me why there is a financial improvement for the soldiers, but there should not be for the civilians. Mr Molterer, you also need to explain to me why soldiers who are not laid in the barracks receive € 13.60 per day in food money. Civil servants don't get it! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If the activity of civil service is as important to you as the activity of the soldiers, then there must also be a timeliness, for it is by nothing to justify by absolutely nothing, why military service is reduced to six months, but not civil service. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is shortened to nine months!]] Civil service is a military service, and that is why there must be a time-consuming equality. That means: Six months of civil service are enough! There is no justification for the fact that civil servants who do at least as heavy a job as the basic defenses should serve longer as basic defenses. There is no justification for that! Mr Molterer, you, with your party, and also the BZÖ and the FPÖ, have agreed on this – you have actually set yourself – that you will not change anything in the civil service sector, but will leave everything as it is. On the contrary: They even want to tighten the situation for civilians. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, I'm on my way. The following question of conscience: Why do you want to treat civilians worse in Austria than soldiers? You have this question of conscience to clarify once! There's no reason but an ideological one. And if you have an ideological reason to put civilians worse than soldiers, you should also call them. But to do so by law, there is no justification at all! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, on this debate today, especially now on the last speakers – the Minister has also spoken about it – after that from 1. January 2006 six months of military service and no longer fixed. Then Mr Scheibner comes out and says: This is not in question at all for us, at the earliest from 2008! And then he kept a staple up. [[Abg. Scheibner: (keeping a passage in height) What does “Hefterl ” mean? That is the report of the Federal Hero Reform Commission – and not a Hefterl!]] I would like to ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, what You really want to decide today: Do you want to decide six months – or eight months? [[Abg. Scheibner: But you have to look at the Stenographical Protocol!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you don't know. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Just came from the sides of the ÖVP again the call: six months! Mr Scheibner looks wild and says that this is not at all possible. – So: What do you want? [[Abg. Murauer: Mrs. Haidlmayr, you haven't listened once again!]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] Once you reach your agreement whether you want to decide six or eight months now! Then, at last, and especially the young men who are concerned about whether they have to go to the federal army for six or eight months. By 2008, everything is open and unexplained. – Such an attitude is not an attitude, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Murauer, who has said that he is hurt by the fact that the barracks in Steyr is now being closed. On Friday last week I passed this barracks in Steyr – and I have to say: They haven't been there for a long time! [[Call:The barracks is there, but soldiers are not there]] I think you didn't even break up the beam, because everything is rusted and wild. There's no longer the barracks of Steyr! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you were to put someone in there again, you would probably have to leave the “spinwabs ” for half a year first, so that someone would even get into the door. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Your delayed pain sensation and perception, Mr. Murauer, is really worrying!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8306	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8343	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before we discuss whether six or eight months – Mr Parnigoni seems to have not yet read the law that he is not going to decide today – we would rather clarify something else. A few minutes ago, Mrs Stadlbauer stood here at this speaker's desk. It is actually not for me to act as defenders of the ÖVP – and I usually have exactly the opposite function – but since colleague Fuhrmann did not say anything about it, it is my concern to talk about it. The fact that you, Mrs Stadlbauer, stand out here and say literally to Mr Fassleven that he only seems to be working well for the long-term memory, I strongly reject it! This is not a culture in a parliamentary discussion – whether it is a competitor or not! I therefore call on Mrs Stadlbauer to apologize to Mr Fassleven. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as the Wehrrechtsamlungsgesetz is concerned, which brings a lot of changes, many details have already been explained by my previous speakers. This law brings a wealth of changes; some far enough, some obviously not. Many improvements, as I believe, should be of no doubt, such as the doubling of success premiums, the introduction of additional militia premiums, the increase of use premiums. These are sound incentive systems, which will continue to ensure that our federal army is operational and that a sufficient number of young people continue to work. Ladies and gentlemen will be willing to participate in it and thus contribute to the national defence of Austria. In this context, I should also like to mention: Additional acquisition of modern equipment to ensure, above all, that the staff is well equipped, because I think it should be a consensus across all party borders to ensure that the employees of our federal army are optimally equipped. As for the reduction of military service – a very exciting topic of the last weeks and months – I put myself clearly on the side of my clubman Herbert Scheibner. And from the very beginning, we have tried to support what the Federal Force Reform Commission has proposed. We have never doubted that a reduction in the service time should come, yes, we must come; we have even drawn up far-reaching proposals. Here we have been leading, but – and this is important to me –: It must not be forgotten that there are principles that must be observed: on the one hand, border protection, the protection of disasters and the adequate provision of personnel for the tasks that our federal army has. – In this regard, the procedure of the SPÖ is really ridiculous; I cannot say it otherwise! It is pure populism! And that's actually a shame! When you look at this in detail, you can see quite clearly why the SPÖ is always going new ways: In reality, you probably do not have a sufficient offer to make national elections next year, because a chancellor of Gusenbauer is not majority – that is known – a finance minister Matznetter is unbearable to the general public and their thematic content is ridiculous. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Would you like to become Minister of Defense?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ as well as calls to the liberals.]] Therefore, you have nothing else left of the SPÖ – nor, Mr Matznetter, Mr. Matznetter – than to give up Mr Kallinger and rather to take the “crown” as a “spin-doctor” because: Every single populist headline, which shows a change of course only in terms of meaning, pick up – in order to hit capital from it – like a dry desert floor that absorbs the water. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: And the BZÖ always has a line!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. With a corresponding hand movement, Dr. Cap points out to the speaker that he is leaving the speaker's desk.]] A few examples – and the ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens should know this – are: Community policy, defence policy, social policy, transport policy, security policy, asylum policy: In all these areas, Mr Cap has entered into history for his zigzag course, at least here in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Do you want to become a minister?]] Your policy is not understandable, you can no longer see directions at all, for: With you, you are vorrüdt, swirling back, swivelling left and right! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, yes, and you always have a line!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Look at the SPÖ that you are reorientating yourself in terms of content and personnel! [[Abg. Dr. Cap points out to the speaker to leave the speaker's desk.]] You too, Mr Cap! And if you want to go to sleep, you have to wait until the TV transmission is out; then you can go out again. But you'll certainly be here until noon. I think it is important that we say this in the course of the debate on the law on the right to change: The advance and return rowing of the opposition is difficult! [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to address another point, as barracks closures are an important issue. There was obviously broad consensus in Hiezu. For me as a Spittaler, it is important that the Türkkaserne/Spittal site be preserved at the Drau, but here I would like to appeal from the speaker's desk again to the Minister of Defense, in the course of the restructuring of the companies and battalions, to ensure that the Tragtier season in Spittal is preserved. Spittal at the Drau is currently one of four locations, which is to be reduced to one or two locations. I think it is particularly important for a high-mountain battalion like that in Spittal on the Drau that a Tragtier season remains there, because the combination of high-mountain battalion and tragtier season is really very important. And: There is a good infrastructure in Spittal for this, we have the people and the necessary training for it, so we have the necessary infrastructure for this season. I ask you, Minister, to review this again. The Türkkaserne in Spittal on the Drau and the whole district will thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8498	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8520	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It was interesting what concerns Mr Scheuch about how others will be doing in the forthcoming National Council elections. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: My concern is that you don't come to Parliament anymore!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I would just like to remind you of one, my dear colleague Scheuch: We from SPÖ have voters to whom we are responsible! – On the other hand, you don’t have a voter, not a single one! You ran away from your voters! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the Wehrrechtswandungsgesetz: The remarks of Mr Fassleven have been somewhat strange. Fassleven is not anyone, but the longest-serving Minister of Defense of the Second Republic. That is to say, for this whole development, he should actually feel co-responsible, but above all at least remember it. Only: As successful as Fassleven stressed, the policy of the ODP defence ministers was not. I just remember the HG 1998, the HG 2000, more Scheibner and the ReOrg 2002. Mr Scheibner, you've complained about the redundancies here. – To do this only: It was your idea to carry out with the ReOrg 2002 an unprecedented personnel reduction at the federal army. [[Abg. Scheibner: Only in administration and bureaucracy!]] Mr Platter, you mentioned that the reform work has now been completed. – This, Mr Minister, has also believed your predecessors. I wish you that perhaps a reform work is actually completed, but there are already highly interesting players in this structure – that is what I would almost call it. We have a reconnaissance battalion, which is fast, modern, equipped for the future, on the other hand, an artillery battalion, which is difficult, has been converted by Fassleven for a lot of money and is hardly necessary today. An Austrian unique, so to speak, is then to connect these two battalions to make them an educational artillery battalion. – That’s about it, ladies and gentlemen, as if you’d have a athletic with a Sumo ring to achieve such success. Now to the training service, ladies and gentlemen. The training service is the first step towards recruitment according to the compulsory military service, which is probably clear to all. And after this training service there are two types of recruits: the trainees in the traditional sense of the presence service – and the future cadre. Let us look at where there are the biggest complaints, the greatest concerns of our soldiers: There is always the desire for justice. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated government coalition! With this model of remuneration for the training service, with the recovery, you do not comply with this desire for justice! In the Committee we have made proposals for this by the SPÖ. Again – and on the amendment –: When achieving intermediate goals, make this reward, but take away from a reduced form of repayment! This is and remains the wrong way! Mr Federal Minister, this call for justice from abroad is also insurmountable, because cadre presence units are worse in actual use. As far as the value units are concerned, parts of the troops receive a satisfactory remuneration, but not commander parts. If you want to build commanders, you will have to make a change. Federal Minister Platter, the conversation you were looking for was partly successful, partly fruitive. I would like to conclude by saying: If we had implemented our 1999 proposals in the same way, we would have saved ourselves six years of trial and error.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8598	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8619	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! 35 years ago, a SPÖ Federal Chancellor announced six months of military service. – Federal Minister Platter will do this with 1. implement January 2006! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Federal Minister Prammer has announced improvements for women in the army. – Federal Minister Platter implements this! [[Abg. Gaál: Was that not the disciplinary?]] This is the fine difference: The SPÖ – Masters in Announcing, the ÖVP – Masters in Implementation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The new training time system includes a very high appreciation for women in the army; a triple payment from the first day of the training period. 824 € per month means a high increase in attractiveness for women who are interested in a career in the army. Of course, this applies not only to women but to all basic defence servants who commit themselves for a period of training. However, changes for women and men throughout the training period, entitlement to family support and entitlement to housing aid – not only as before six months – represent a great achievement. Further: Opening of military functions for women and the re-regulation of physical performance limits, where gender-specific assessment can finally be made – all very important measures and clear signals to young women and men, signals that make the Austrian federal army more attractive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Stadlbauer, it was Federal Minister Platter who has done everything from the beginning of his term of office to increase the attractiveness of the German army and to make the training time more attractive and efficient for our youth. The reduction of military service to six months, combined with new, attractive and modern training directives, will work efficiently. As a women's politician, I would like to thank our Federal Minister Platter for the fact that the great appreciation of women in the army can be pursued so determinedly and implemented with this decision today. Ladies and gentlemen! Our federal army needs women like men, needs young, motivated people, needs a young, dynamic force. That's all our goal. The present draft sets clear signals in this direction. The youth in our country, the security in our country and thus the people in Austria will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8687	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8708	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) All of us now know, as it were, the construction of the German army Neu. We know where to close barracks – and we also know that there should be a reduction of 110 000 men to 55 000 men. However, what we do not know – at least I do not; I would therefore ask you to reply; I have not read about it anywhere – is: What happens to the soldiers – in the majority of them they will be soldiers – who are affected by this reduction? I miss the signals where these people are supposed to be able to realize themselves professionally. You have also decided on a pension reform which has raised the retirement age. What are these people supposed to do? I'm interested, Minister. A training service will be introduced to send out positive signals in relation to the generation of frameworks. There I am with you, Mr Minister, only: A negative example will very likely have an impact on the repayment obligation. If in the private sector a teaching relationship – in order to bring this as an example – is broken, for which reasons always, then it has never been that the apprentice had to repay his apprentice compensation for this time in which he did the training. Mr Minister – even if we are now talking about – you should think about this again, because this cannot be a positive signal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you have also said that we need young soldiers who are ready for a mission. Yes, Minister, we need that, but it is missing – again! – an exit plan for these professional soldiers! Mr. Minister, where to with the professional soldiers at 40 or 45 years of age? In the private sector today people with 40 or 45 years of age are considered “old” and have no more job opportunities. So, Mr Minister, what is “round” in this concept when everything is technically clearly regulated on the one hand, but where it is about people, so to speak, square everything and rush it all?- Oh, my God! Minister, sit Please agree that there is a proper exit plan for the young people we need to know where they are 40 or 45 years old, then if they have to get out of the army, if they can't retire! Mr Minister, the barracks sales plan is now so to speak, and I have read a typical example in the “Kurier” again. When I look at the “curer”, I see that people – for example, the Kopal-Kaserne – say: “The nerves lie white. We don’t know how to proceed.” Mr Minister, I really ask you to take care of this in the case of reforms: It is the problem with many reforms that, although everything is technically focused, those who come into the mill inside are always forgotten. I cannot save one last comment because I have read it in connection with the closure of the barracks sites in the “Kurier”. Head of state Pröll says that eight barracks sites are closed and yet 300 jobs come to Lower Austria. – I would like to get to know this example, Mr Minister! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8771	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8793	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Representatives of the Austrian Federal Government! In itself, I wanted to save myself from going into airspace surveillance. [[Abg. Broukal: That must be!]] But on the basis of the speeches – as the colleague says – it must be simple, because I was somewhat irritated by the remarks made by Mr Stadlbauer, who spoke of a commitment to airspace surveillance, for which we do not need aircraft – however she may imagine it with stone slugs or other material. Mr Kogler, who can imagine an active component, is not quite sure what type of aircraft this is to be used for. I have prepared a little for the performance of Austrian airspace surveillance so that it does not mean “only empty words at the speaker’s desk”. It is a quote from the “New York Times” (not known as an organ of the BZÖ or the FPÖ) of 31. May 2005, the title can be read here, and it is about the CIA moving more and more to use civil aircraft that it charters to carry out its transports. Such transports have also been going on and on through Austria, overflying permits have been misused for military purposes. The “New York Times” notes that Austria was probably the only country in Europe that was already the CIA in 2003, on 21 January 2003. January 2003, behind the light, intercepted such a caught civil flight and proved it. So that I don't speak empty words, here's the picture This is a Hercules C-130 of the Tupper Airways, which has flown on behalf of the CIA with a civil airline permit across Austria. [[the speaker holds the image of an aircraft in height]] So much on the subject: We don't need any planes to monitor such a thing. Trust is good, control is really better! [[Abg. Broukal:... Eurofighter is not quite right either!]] Because the trust you have on your own is not enough for me personally. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Broukal: But the Dragons can do that too! Why does this have to be a Eurofighter?]] Unfortunately, Mr President, the duration of the Dragon has been exhausted. [[Abg. Broukal: The flus can do that! F-15!]] We don't want to discuss the type selection now. But I'd like to offer you a private body where we can both discuss this once. - Good. [[Abg. Broukal:... a quarter of us could have it!]] What particularly surprised me, however, was the behaviour of the SPÖ, particularly at the country's political level. There is suddenly the love, the true love of the federal army, short but still flattered, when it comes to barracks sites, namely barracks locations that concern the federal state. As we are just talking about light, which is not the case with the SPÖ, I have a view of light in Salzburg, despite everything – with the many shadows you otherwise throw. Your highly-loved mayor's damage – one of your people with a lot of potential, if I may quote it from your internal sources – said at the last fishing visit: Whoever says A must also say B; and that is in terms of security policy, the SPÖ would also be for interceptors. . I would therefore recommend that you coordinate yourself internally once, so that we are not constantly confronted with different statements, so that we do not know where it really goes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Broukal: But this is a very up-to-date speech!]] On the second point, namely the central point of today's issue, the reintegration of the German army, a few remarks: The reduction and adaptation to the circumstances of the 21st century. ==References====External links== It was partly implemented, this adjustment will continue. The area of the force has now been reorganized, it has been adapted. But it was broken especially with Tabus, with Tabus, which was not easy to understand even in the army for many. We've put together gun holes. In the beginning, there were, of course, resistances, but in the sense of the matter and for the high aim of meeting the requirements of a newly structured and forward-looking federal army, Mr Generale agreed. For this, too, my recognition from this side! There will now be the central office. But I am convinced that in the good climate, which we have at least on this issue within the coalition, we will surely come to a success that is not ours, but, above all, the Austrian federal army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8916	As the next speaker, Mrs Pepper is speaking. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8937	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Pilz – he is unfortunately not in the house – I would like to stress that there are important things to be discussed and discussed by the Federal Army. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's clear anyway!]] But also Blasmusik is an important part of the Austrian federal army, and it is also a sign of identity with the Austrian population. I am in favour of my statement on this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to my speech: ==References== In July 2001, the Military Power Act is fully in force. With this law, the military authorities have been authorized to intervene in the fundamental rights of man. We from SPÖ filed a request against this law because of constitutional concerns, as various passages did not promise us. ==References== January 2004 the Constitutional Court declared and repealed parts of the Law unlawful. Three key points of this law have now been repealed by the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, however, it must already be mentioned that the government had not seen any concerns and that we were from the SPÖ who acted and called on the Constitutional Court. The judgment is known, and a government is also capable of learning because it had to admit small because the Constitutional Court has confirmed our concerns. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to another topic that meets me as a long-term sports officer. Due to the Saverlass, the financial support has been announced to the top sports longer. According to an article in the “Kurier ” of 6. In June 2005, it is expected that, when performance athletes leave, their seats will no longer be re-occupied. Therefore, about 35 planning sites are to be left out in autumn. Top athletes such as Roman Hagara – Sailing – Werner Schlager – Table Tennis – Ludwig Paischer – Judo – Roland Schwarz as a ten-armed fighter and the many young talents are only possible a daily time-consuming training because the German army grants social security. The HSZ Austria is a Europe-wide recognised model. The success of our athletes also speaks for itself. Unfortunately, this is supposed to be over in the foreseeable future. Don't talk about cuts, Federal Minister, and don't worry about our athletes! My question to It would therefore be: How far is this article in the “Kurier ”? – I ask you, Minister of State: Just make your reputation as a sports friend and speak Here is a word of power in the sense of Austrian sport! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8978	The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9001	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the Wehrgesetz and the implementation of the military reform bring numerous improvements for the Austrian Federal Army and significant changes for our basic military servants and soldiers. The requirements for our federal army have changed strongly over the last 50 years. We can be happy that Austria has been able to live in peace since the World War, and of course we all hope that this will remain the same in the future. Nevertheless, there are threats, such as international terrorism and crisis spots in various places in the world, which require a powerful federal army. I would also like to pay attention to the achievements of our federal army in the event of disasters and also in the use of borders. We need it. Each of us will admit how important the use of our federal army in the flood was in 2002. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is about the security of the Austrian population. In order for our army to remain powerful in the future, various measures are needed that we will decide today. The ground defense service will be reduced to six months from January 2006. I myself was with the Federal Army in 1970 and finished my military service in Linz-Ebelsberg; I can still remember it very well. At that time the SPÖ demanded with Kreisky: six months are enough!, and there was a shout of joy through the house, through the halls of the barracks. To date, this has not actually been implemented among SPÖ ministers and Federal Chancellors, but today, under Chancellor Schüssel and Minister of Defence Platter, these six months enter into force! I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This proves once again that Social Democrats announce election promises and, at the end of the day, the People's Party keeps its promises. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. He was good!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In order to ensure staff growth for foreign operations as well as for officers and sub-official functions, incentives must be created again and again. At the end of the day, we have made it possible for women to access the federal army, and there too there is a need for various improvements. We all see it as very positive that women continue to report to the Austrian federal army, 430 so far. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to point out that with today's date 1. ==References====External links== As said, the experience shows that women also want to make a career with the German army, but there are always obstacles in the salary and also in the required performance profile. These will be removed by this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This law ensures that sufficient human capacity will continue to be available to the Austrian federal army in the future. I would particularly like to thank Mr. Blatter for making the Austrian German army a modern, slim and professional army that gives all Austrians a secure future. Personally, I would like to thank you very officially for keeping the Ried site in my home election and for making further expansion possible there. This is certainly a great success that has been given here. Thank you very much, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9050	The next speaker was Mr Gradwelt. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9071	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear colleague, because you have spoken about the election promises and the six months: I am one of the years that served six months – but not because there was a Minister for Defence Platter, but because a reform was carried out at that time, which brought something to young men and which also offered the economy a security, dear friend. [[Abg. Friend: But they must have followed!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There were arms exercises, but they still exist today. Do not deny what you yourselves, please, write into the laws! Just, there's a difference, dear friend: At that time, there was a certain degree of certainty that it was still being handled legally. Now you make a decree from Mr. Federal Minister, and if the next Federal Minister is “loving” before 2008, then there are no longer these things and then suddenly everything has changed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Have the courage and do it by law! The BZÖ, which is called “F” – or whatever this club is in the middle – may also be in agreement if you exercise corresponding pressure. [[Abg. Murauer: You won't be either...!]] In any case, we agree in broad areas – therefore, it is also a fairy tale of you to claim here that the SPÖ would reject it – look at what wide areas! [[Abg. Murauer: Will we look! We'll take a look at this!]] Mr Murauer, have we attended the National Defence Committee meeting, but only physically? – There have been voting results that clearly prove this! [[Abg. Murauer:... even physically present!]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, are getting closer to this amendment, then we can bring together a largely unanimous result – if you have the courage to take legal action and thus create legal certainty! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I really think it is a little surprising and almost amusing that speakers of the ÖVP stand out here and say how great it is for Mr. Blatter – what has Mrs. Stadler called it? – has finally increased the appeal of the Federal Lord. Now I do not know, Mr Federal Minister, if I can remember correctly, in my time here in the house there has been a Minister of Defense Lichal – I believe from the ÖVP – a Minister of Defense Fassleven – the longest-serving Minister of Defence, as we have heard today, and you have been reserved to increase the appeal of the Federal Force. I congratulate you on this, but at the same time I say: This has been a weak performance from its predecessors, and that is sad, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank the example of my ÖVP collegiates, who thank the Federal Minister. And I would like to thank our interlocutor, who has done excellent work in intensive negotiations – Toni Gaál, right, colleague Murauer – and who has taken care of it – you are right, too – that many of the things that stand for decision-making today can be carried out by us because Anton Gaál, our interlocutor, has really worked very well. [[Abg. Murauer: Toni Gaál, that's you!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Where is the colleague Gaál?]] He deserves a warm thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9201	Mr Schöls has been mentioned as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9222	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow, I would have said almost, amusing if you saw the weather house SPÖ twice in a row within such a short time. We were allowed to experience the weather house SPÖ at sunshine in the early days of the discussion about Europe, there are always people standing out and wanting to be there; and as soon as a few clouds come, they shower off and “wrangle” quickly. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We also experience a similar situation in the question of military reform. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, you can't make child-moving so cheap that socialist Members from Lower Austria are subordinated to the head of state of Lower Austria that he has negotiated superficially in the closing list, but in Burgenland, where the head of state has been socialist and has also agreed to, this seems to be a good result, as well as in Vienna, where ten locations are also closed. [[Abg. Gradwell: What kind of child is being put away?]] Where are you? Toni Gaál, you're partyobmann of favorites. Why don't you tell your Lower Austrian comrades that Comrade Häupl also has the responsibility, just as he confesses to Pröll's responsibility? Mrs. Hagenhofer, if I can make a contribution to ‘light in the dark’ so to speak, to the question of how it can happen that, when barracks are locked up, the number of people still increases: It is also possible to strengthen existing associations. One does not need to be a member of the strategic leadership staff with the German army, but it is enough to understand that one knows that this is quite possible, so that one does not have to question that and does not have to question the calculation knowledge of the head of state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: You have one more possibility, because Colleague Pepper is still standing here and confesses to the wind music of the German army; I believe that military defence has other core tasks than wind music and sports. [[Abg. Pepper: That's right!]] But I'm going to experience what you did in other concrete things. There are also decided proposals here in the House, with which socialist mandates for the defence of airspace and for the surveillance of airspace have become known, but then one finds one argument that one withdraws from it. Mr Parnigoni will certainly return to some reason why he does not agree somewhere. I am convinced that one will then also find out in the wind music that some mouthpiece is missing, so that SPÖ cannot join the reform of military music. Today, it has been complained that the social component has not yet been taken into account, which is not entirely true, and the chairman of the Central Committee, Mr. Vizeleutnant Fuchs, has also noted: Until now, the situation has not yet been such that the staff representation should have been involved; now is the moment when the staff and union representatives are to be involved. I am convinced that the Federal Minister will also do so during the social plan negotiations, just as he has shown the necessary fingertips here in the past. And then again you are called upon to carry the necessary service rights here in the house when it comes to securing that too. I hope and invite you to do the same. By the way, I would like to express my thanks not only to the Federal Minister, but also to all those in the Federal Government who certainly have difficult times ahead, but whom I trust to have the necessary personal and democratic maturity, for we have seen in the past that our soldiers in Germany and abroad were on the road as well as in disasters. For this I thank them, wish them a great deal of military happiness and a little more political courage, even in the case of rain.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9284	The next speaker was Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9306	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Col. Schöls, if you speak of pleasure in your well-known streaming way – see, he's already looking at me when I start talking – and of the weather house SPÖ, be written to you in the main book: [[Abg. It's polite!]] Whether it comes to an agreement of SPÖ to a law depends solely on the quality of the law, its content and what it brings to people, from time to time not on a mood. It's written to you in the main book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At least in the SPÖ, I sometimes have doubts about whether this is really the case. Very briefly: I would like to focus on the possibility for those responsible for the provision of training services. Mr. Federal Minister, you have provided the opportunity for men to be accessible to women of the training service in the future. That's all right, we don't have anything to do with it. However, what is so characteristic of your policy again is that at the same time as this passage, for example, there are major problems at the time of the law-making process. For men, a refund obligation of up to €3 400 will be introduced in the event of an exit from the training service. That means a huge burden on young people at the beginning. I do not want to talk about constitutional equality, because this is only a matter of men and not women. There will also be a special rejection or special problems with the one-year-old volunteers, Mr. Federal Minister. Since this training is only possible on the basis of this new training service, the young soldier must also make this enormous repayment if he withdraws from this EF training – except for illness to say the same – and continues his ground defense service before the end of the sixth month. Test results – written oral tests – can also be crucial to the elimination of active young people from this training. Even then, it meets this repayment obligation, and from our point of view that is not very social. I think you should make a withdrawal in this area and save young people this repayment in the future. This construction is very complicated, administratively difficult, creates new injustices and – I have already mentioned this – constitutional irregularities. From our point of view, this repayment obligation must not be met. The amendment you have tabled today proves that this path you have taken is wrong, and our arguments are correct, that our position is correct, ladies and gentlemen, that this repayment obligation will be lost in the future. I would like to make a brief comment on § 27 para. 1 Amendment to the Rules of Procedure which you have tabled in the context of the deliberations in the National Defence Committee, concerning a draft federal law amending the Employment Security Act. This too is typical for your policy, for the lawmaking. Here, too, it was only in the Committee that the problems were identified. It is only here that the corresponding provisions on this training or job security law have been established in the Committee. We shall vote in favour of this request. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9361	The next speaker was Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9383	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. There is really a lot of positive inside in the Wehrrechtsverwicklung. I just need to start by summarizing the headings in the information we got: Duration of the ground defense service only six months, abolition of the military exercise, re-regulation of the twelve-month training services – equal to that of men and women – to the appropriate increase in remuneration, opening of the military functions for women, the introduction of a corresponding recognition premium or special premium in the presence and training service, the doubling of the success premiums for VbK exercises or, as it will be called in the future, the 10 percent increase in the operating premium. Federal Minister! From the point of view of Styria, I must tell you that in Styria, of course, we are very grateful for the so-called supercommand, the armed forces command with location Graz, to help the entire Styria experience an appreciation in military and strategic matters. If you look at the media, you can see: It is and was, for example, the preservation of the location of Aigen for us as the Styrian People's Party always a goal, from a military point of view, but above all also the preservation of helicopters for the protection of disasters and the safeguarding of regional jobs. [[Abg. Gradwelt: How long?]] That was always a goal for us, and that was also a constant demand from Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic. This has been achieved and confirmed. [[Abg. Gradwelt: For how long?]] But what is the SPÖ doing? There are colleagues, such as Mrs. Fleckl, who, when presented, immediately again caused uncertainty and fear to spread throughout the region, because she cannot respect that other people in the Styria can really achieve great results. [[Abg. Gradwell: For how long is this guaranteed?]] For example, as far as the six months are concerned. Mr Prehauser goes to the speaker's desk and says as in the first class of folk school: Yes, please, Mrs. Teacher, it was we who first said that! – Yes, that’s nice and good that you might have said this first, but you didn’t do anything. Not! We were the party that brought this together, and we did not need 35 years, but we discussed it once and decided. And that's what you'll see the success.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9452	The next item is the speech by Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9473	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'd like to bring in a few thoughts. Mr Fassleven recalled that the SPÖ was in the 1970s for a reduction in the service time, and thus presented its long-term memory, but forgot what happened in the committee a week ago, namely that the SPÖ had submitted a request which was given six months by law with 1. Member States are obliged to introduce them in 2006. However, the SPÖ also agreed to the ÖVP's request with 1. January 2008 to introduce these six months. That is why the colleague was right, of course, who meant that my colleague, Fassleven, actually only strappled his long-term memory and had some short-term commemorative gaps. I just want to make this clear. If we are already in the six months, I would also like to remind you, Mr Federal Minister, that we are in civil service for six months in the sense of equal treatment. Civil service is military service, and therefore we are also for a six-month period of civil service, and therefore we cannot quite understand why the Minister can introduce six months to the Federal Army with instructions, but we need a two-thirds majority in the civil service for the determination of his duration. On occasion, we should consider whether there should also be a change. Federal Minister! It has already been said several times today: The Social Democrats stand for federal reform. The fact is, however, that a serious mistake dominates the entire debate, namely your decision to buy the sintorous Eurowing Flyers. With this, you take the risk of the entire federal reform. I say quite frankly to you: Move by Financial Perspective It is at the border of negligence, for it has actually been found there that the maintenance of the operation of the federal army is only limited. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in favour of the federal army being able to present themselves crediblely to the people of Austria. However, I am concerned that your credibility is at risk if you assess your course of action in barracks closures, Minister of State. We have heard today that the national leaders have been particularly active. – So Horn and Weitra, colleague Schöls, are saved, but only the buildings are saved! The location. The fact is that in Horn there are currently 280 men. According to the concept, exactly 40 jobs remain. However, Pröll had two companies and a staff member. A company remains otherwise – 40 men. In Weitra there are currently 80 people. With Pröll there was an entire company – instead of 80 men, only 20 people remain. [[Abg. Big Truck: Do you want to reduce or not?]] Open, ladies and gentlemen, is still the question of what is happening to the KIOP PP units in Horn and in Weitra. Dear colleague Pack, that's how the whole story works in Styria. You will have a few walls on which “Kaserne ” stands, but no one will be inside. It'll look like Steyr, like Murauer. The spider weaves will be there, but will be celebrated by the head of state or the head of state: We saved the barracks! We don't have jobs anymore! – But that's what you're proving with your policy anyway. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Don't you even want to abolish the federal army?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You don't have us on your side! Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To keep your screams limited, I can announce to you: We're going to vote differently. We will vote in favour of the reform at second reading. However, we will be against the repayment obligation and against the Military Power Act and will therefore reject the overall package in third reading. [[Abg. Schöls: Weather Houses!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9551	The next item is the report by Mr Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9573	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Parnigoni, how are we supposed to do that? If there's a barracks, it's not right, the barracks doesn't stay, there'll be more screaming. So it's really meated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] In terms of content, everything is said. Whether it always corresponded to the truth and the facts, one must really doubt, and the zigzag course of the SPÖ once again threatens the security of our Austria. You polarize, you polemize, you are always in principle for it and at the end, at the third reading are She'll be against it again. So it was with the pension reform, so it was with the tax reform, so it was in the merger of gendarmerie and police, and so it is today in the army reform. What you're for, you don't know for yourself. We and the government know about the responsibility for people in this country, for security in this country, and that is why we are now starting one of the major reform works in the Federal Army. I thank our Minister personally for this. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] For you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, once again – and I would like to repeat it once again, it is also well suited to the topic –: Comrades, have eight, turn right, turn left, where now?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9619	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9641	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At present, the policy of the Ministry of Defence is not only about the question of individual reform steps, but also about the credibility of the department as such. It's about the case of Moser. It is about the case of a former National Councillors and Brigadiers of the Austrian Federal Army. Hans Helmut Moser has tried to sell Ukrainian weapons to Rwanda in the last weeks of his duties as a national council member, while serving as an Austrian military attaché in Greece on behalf of a well-known Greek arms trading company named Scorpion. Rwanda supported so-called rebel groups in the Republic of Congo at that time. I'll tell you what rebel groups are. At that time, there was a United Nations arms embargo for the Congo. The freeman, the so-called rebels, needed weapons, not to fall a dictatorship, but to secure their share in the plundering of the Congo. The plundering of the Congo was also the common interest of the governments of Rwanda and Uganda. And there appears to be an Austrian military attaché as a representative of this arms trading company, who is in charge of a Greek arms dealer who has already been legally condemned in Italy for these very reasons and tries to act. His business partner bears witness to this, the Ministry of Defence has handed over that to the prosecutor. The procedure for the threat of neutrality has been initiated. Constitutional protection has also given this to the public prosecutor's office, but to this day Moser – at least nominally – is military attaché in Berlin. The proposal we are going to make today, which I am still trying to negotiate with the political groups, has a single key point, namely the immediate withdrawal of Brigadier Moser as a defence attaché in Berlin. Brigadier Moser is not portable, not suitable to represent the military security of Austria diplomatically in the Federal Republic of Germany! We do not want to presuppose any procedure, but only the only necessary and possible step of the Minister of Defence to be taken now by a decision of this House. I hope you understand that. I assume that no one here wants to tolerate an Austrian arms dealer in bad suspicion only a day longer than the military attaché of the Republic of Austria in Berlin. That is why I expect us to come to a joint request, which we can then decide unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9686	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9707	Mr President. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would have gone off to us today if a debate took place on the German army and MP Pilz did not discover his daily scandal and what is really annoyed with me, now the second time in a year, a member of the board of directors arbitrarily took out of the public without any reason. We deeply reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore referring to this issue so that no one can say that it should not be examined that the following motion for a resolution by Mr Tancsits, Mr Kummerer, Mr Bösch and others on measures relating to accusations against a member of the community in connection with alleged support for arms operations is being tabled. The Members who have been signed shall make the following comments: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker of my group, I wanted to address two arguments of opposition in this debate today. First of all, the repayment of the training premium. This is necessary in the case of the male citizens, because it is only for that time that the training service replaces the basic legal service. If, as a rule, aliquot would not be repaid, then the ground defense service would have to be recovered, and that would not be a reasonable measure for someone who wants or is supposed to disarm early. That is why this measure is in order, just as the whole package I believe serves to introduce market-compliant competition for good voluntary men and women in the context of the reform. I'm sure that'll work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second aspect: Eurofighter. – I have repeatedly heard that the German army cannot be reformed because the Eurofighters would cost so much. Ladies and gentlemen! You also don't have to decide whether to have an engine or a brake when buying a car. You need both! This means you get to do it in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website It would be negligent for our people to use the German army, for example, in the context of European peacekeeping, in part in the Balkans, but not to secure their own airspace. On the device, ladies and gentlemen, it is so well suited to today's debate on European affairs. I am convinced that we will not bring about a European economic and social model with pity and not pre-flooding capitalism criticism, but only if we form a strong European aeronautical and electronic industry. – Austria is here. We are not extended workbench by anyone, but I am proud that we are in this European high-tech project!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9780	The motion for a resolution by Mr Tancsit's colleague, Mr Tancsits, Mr Kummerer and Mr Bösch, has been sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9834	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9855	Mr President. Minister! High house! In due time: I believe that this motion for a resolution makes sense. It is our concern to address and follow up on such accusations that are raised against former Members of the House. We accept that you, Mr Federal Minister, have taken action, we accept that you are willing to face up to this accusation. I see in all clarity: For our former colleagues, of course, the presumption of innocence applies, but we want to strengthen your back with this motion for a resolution, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9883	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9904	Mr President. As a result, I will bring to the attention and attention of the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Pilz, and my colleagues, just a few minutes ago, to explain to me with one sentence: What has now been thought of and negotiated between the states seems to us to be too little, therefore: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9951	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Pilz, colleagues, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10016	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft Law on the Law on the Change of Law 2005 in 955 of the Supplements. Mr Murauer, Mr Bösch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or an additional amendment. In addition, Members Gaál, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment. Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. Finally, there is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Gaál. I will vote on the parts of the bill - according to the classification - and finally on the remaining parts that have not yet been voted on by the amendments or supplementary proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote. We shall vote separately on Rule 1(11) as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Mr Murauer, Dr. Bösch, colleagues and Members of Parliament, Dr Pilz, colleagues, have tabled a similar amendment concerning Article 1(12)(38)(3). Whoever stands up for it, I seek for a positive sign. – This is the majority, and that is why this request has been accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Article 1(12)(37), 38(1), (2), (4) and (5), and 38b as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign of approval for those Members of the House who are voting in favour of this House. – This is the majority, and that is what is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the corresponding amendments to Rule 1 (16) (60)(2) (c) of Mrs Murauer, Dr. Bösch, colleagues, Mr Gaál, fellow Members and Mr Pilz, colleagues. By agreement, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Members of Parliament Gaál, colleagues and Members of Parliament, Dr Pilz, colleagues, have tabled a similar amendment concerning Article 1(16) (60)(2)d. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Those ladies and gentlemen who are here, I am looking for a sign of confirmation. – This is largely accepted. Members of Parliament Gaál, colleagues and Members of Parliament, Dr Pilz, colleagues, have tabled a similar amendment concerning Article 1(17) 60(8). Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are here to give a sign of this. – This is adopted by a majority. Mr Gaál, ladies and gentlemen, and Mrs Dr Pilz, colleagues, have tabled a similar amendment on Article 1(19). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Murauer, Dr. Bösch, colleagues. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3(4), as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Murauer, Dr Bösch, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on Rule 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment or additional amendment tabled by Mr Murauer, Dr Bösch, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Tancsits, Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer, Dr. Bösch, ladies and gentlemen, on measures concerning allegations against a member of the board in connection with alleged support for arms operations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority, and that is why this request has been accepted. (E 112.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the decommissioning of defence attaché Hans Helmut Moser. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Employment Security Act in 1991, together with the title and receipt in 956 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[13:02:22]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (927 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act, with which the Stock Act, the Law on limited liability companies, the SE Act, the Commercial Code, the Banking Act, law, insurance supervision law, pension fund law, the cooperative revision law, the cooperative revision law and the law on court fees in accordance with the resolution of the National Council of 29 March. January 2004 to strengthen confidence in the Austrian economy (Society Change Act 2005 – Geschräg 2005) (985 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (926 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law Against Cartels and Other Restrictions of Competition (Cartel Act 2005 – KartG 2005) (990 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (942 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Competition Act and the Federal Act for the Improvement of Local Supply and Competition Conditions (Competition Act 2005) (991 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10244	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10271	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing, among other things, the company law amendment law, which cannot and cannot be really proud of, especially in the light of the announcements of the Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer concerning great changes to an economic hygiene law. However, I would like to go into a very brief issue – you allow, Mrs. Federal Minister, that I go into it – which has just gone through the aether and reports on a very strange development. In particular, this is because this afternoon, as part of the urgent request, the question will be raised as to how a Mr Seipel as a museum director can continue to act despite a variety of peculiar behaviours and even despite a report of the Court of Auditors that stops without the involvement of authorities. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] I have just read in an APA report that the well-known ÖVP member, the former ÖVP minister-general Martina Krones-Taurer, has produced quite a self-evident development. You all know, there was a relatively massive scandal that led to criminal proceedings. The former Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (ÖVP) was elected on 29 July. September 2004 – such as an APA announcement of a report by Mr. Kuch in the “News” of tomorrow – sentenced to a prison sentence due to mistrust of € 650 000; I mean, that’s not very little. It was also sentenced twice in Germany for check fraud, one time €5.5 million and another time €1.2 million. The conviction is valid, and in fact the lady should have been in prison for a long time, which is not the case. Now, of course, we ask ourselves with fug and right – we always say, just recently, by the Federal Republic of Germany. government, the importance of frequenting the detention centre – which is why this lady does not have to take on the same fate as all the other convicts. Instead – and this is the next scandal; but I do not want to play this up, I just think that an answer is necessary – she is working as the managing director of a Vienna wealth management company, ladies and gentlemen! Someone who has been sentenced to a fine and a prison sentence for fraud and fraud in Austria and Germany, who has long had to be punished because of the rejection of a fine, is now active as the managing director of an asset management company! – Mr Justice Minister, I do not think that you can do something for this, but I can urgently ask you to check now, which is actually making sure that, despite this dramatic crime, this former EIA minister-general leads a wealth management company. The law on company law, ladies and gentlemen, is a summary: They know – that was also the subject of the Justice Committee – the original issue, a concern which was at the heart of the former Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, to bring together a variety of different aspects under a so-called economic hygiene law. One of the points was: Supervisory Boards should be limited in numbers because it cannot be so that a variety of functions ensure that all these functions can also be exercised very carefully. I can and will not say anything about this because there are very different constellations where one or the other is actually possible. In any event, the fact is that we have gone completely from these considerations at the time and now we do not have all that Bohemian people at that time have said in terms of a limitation. What we have – and this is a fundamental question – is, in connection with the Corporate Governance Code, which also plays an important role, a declaration, a voluntary declaration by companies that they are subject to certain regulations. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that the original intention was that, for the capital market, but also for the societies, one would be very useful – I believe, it can and must be submitted to the Corporate Governance Code, because it has been very carefully developed – regulations as mandatory for Austrian companies. I do not understand why this can't happen in the end. In Germany, at least an attempt was made to give this document a public character by the fact that it was published in the framework of a regulation. I mean, of course, voluntaryness has a value, but if we now move on to saying that we de facto face the voluntary nature of the legislation and – and this is more and more expressed in many other areas – hope that what is required by law is done voluntarily, then I believe that this takes a very critical view. This calls on the legislator very well to explain why something he believes is essential that it is reasonable that it is reasonable to enforce it is not regulated by law, but by the hope that it will be done voluntarily in the room. I believe that we need to deal not only with this law on company law, but also with a number of other measures in which this wave of voluntaryness is based on this issue. I simply do not understand that the balance sheet control body we are calling for will not be set up, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Federal Minister. On the one hand, we cannot talk about the need to promote the capital market through transparency, through guarantees, through comprehensibleness, and on the other hand, to reject a request to ensure that balance sheets are actually drawn up properly and in a uniform context throughout Europe, namely according to uniform criteria. I am totally incomprehensible what should be bad at a balance sheet control body that would be such a security body. That is why I do not understand why you have not been able to be friends with such an idea. On the question of external and internal rotation – the speaking time is too short; I hope the clock is set to 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10341	You're at 7.3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10356	Then I would just like to refer to the statements made by Mr Matznetter in the past and to say that we do not agree to this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10383	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Dr. Fekter. I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10405	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to refer to the Company Law Change Act and not to comment on information on the issue of the “NEWS” magazine published tomorrow. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What does the “News” say?]] – Mr Jarolim explained that. [[Call at the SPÖ: But there would be an explanation...!]] – If I have read the “NEWS”, I will make a statement. Now on the matter, what's on the agenda. The Company Law Change Act had a relatively long and, as I mean, rather turbulent prehistory. It was the big pleas, the international but also those in Austria that caused a certain degree of confidence in our financial markets, which is why we have strengthened several laws. A reliable accounting is the prerequisite for a functioning capital market. We have implemented the Accounting Directive, we have implemented the recommendation of the EU Commission with regard to the independence of auditors and the basic principles laid down there. – All of this was already in 2002. At that time we also decided on external rotation as well as an unlimited liability for auditors. In the previous year, however, there was a heated discussion about whether the external rotation makes sense. We have thought that the external rotation of the auditors could be avoided if, at the same time, certain incompatibilities in the final audit, when accounting in the Supervisory Boards, were to be legitimized better. At the time, there was a motion for a resolution from all four parties – all agreed – in which we meant that the legislator should better regulate incompatibilities, such as supervisory and organ functions at the same time, competition agreements, consulting agreements with the companies to be controlled, similar incompatibilities, and that solutions should be offered. This motion for a resolution also referred to the limitation of the number of Supervisory Board mandates, the establishment of an Audit Committee, the improvement of the quality of auditors, measures against insider trade, reliability regarding market-related information, and with regard to this reliability it was necessary to consider whether personal liability should be introduced. At the same time, in this very difficult and complex matter, it was considered useful to set up a advisory board, consisting of scientists and practitioners, for accounting and auditing at the Ministry in order to prepare future legislative measures. Legal implementation is now on the table and on the agenda for decision-making. We have done the following: We have been very close to the Corporate Governance Code when it comes to implementation. We have actually included in the law those provisions which could be incorporated into the law. And with regard to the other measures, we have aligned ourselves with the “Comply or Explain” principle, i.e., not bans are normized, but more transparent. If incompatibilities exist, they should be made transparent so that shareholders can imagine whether they have confidence or not. It has been achieved in a very intensive negotiation process with the economy that we have abolished the so-called banking privilege that we have made it acceptable if a Supervisory Board has highly-dominated consulting contracts of the company – it cannot first advise the company and then manage revenue and then control it, which is incompatible. The Audit Committee will be mandatory in the future. Furthermore, we have stated that this Audit Committee should also be a financial expert. We do not have any personal liability for organs regarding the negligent refusal of information or negligent misinformation. It still holds the entire capital of society. Of course, the criminal code is applicable to delicacy and intentional fraud. The Code Declarations in the Act, Mr Jarolim, have not gone. On the one hand, we as legislators cannot refer to soft law, on the other hand, the Corporate Governance Code includes a wealth of recommendations and graduated regulations – some of them mandatory, some only recommended. This was not possible in the law 1: 1 either, so we have only included those mandatory provisions which could be incorporated into the law. These provisions apply to all undertakings which are voluntary compliance with the Code for listed stock exchanges. I am convinced that in a further development we will certainly once again discuss whether the Corporate Governance Code gets absolute liability on the stock market or not. That's next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10455	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 7 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10478	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The previous speaker here, for her part, made a remarkable assessment. [[Call the ÖVP:As always!]] This time in remarkable materiality. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's always like that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Always!]] We too have made a balance, and as always one can argue about whether something represents an improvement compared to the status quo or not. One thing before: I mean – I am now referring in particular and first of all to the Company Law Change Act – that there are clearly recognizable improvements there and there. That's it. It doesn't get much worse either. So one might well come to the question: Why not agree? This question often arises when such templates are present. But you can see things differently. According to the content of the debate two or more years ago, what is now present is relatively poor and modest, also measured by what was then announced by members of the government, and by what events are to be held by such legislative initiatives in the future. We believe that this is indeed too short and too little, or that some things have not been taken up at all. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Why?]] Let's start with the transparency provisions for manager salaries. Of course, you can say that – good old Austrian tradition by the way –: Don't touch anyone, and at all! [[New call of the abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer.]] I'm telling you, that's completely wrong. At least the listed companies should be treated differently here, in our opinion, because listing on a stock exchange is a certain public action, in economic life, where increased – “protection mechanisms” is anyway the wrong word, something quite different – transparency rules should apply, because the stock market is in some way a market that – like many other markets – has certain anonymizations. It does not know every small shareholder exactly what is going on. But at least he should have the opportunity to inform himself. But this is only the normal transparent access that is always good when it comes to market issues. There is, of course, another connection, supported by the developments of recent years: The discrepancy with regard to salaries in companies is often no longer visible and at least difficult to sustain for some, and in this case also stimulates or calls for objection as far as listed companies are concerned. With regard to this social issue, it is good if there is transparency. It can still be thought that the average income of an employee to the income of a top manager should be 1 : 10 or 1: 20, then it should be fair. I can and will not even answer this question, but one thing is clear: This is also the prerequisite for transparency. It's clear. As far as the modern criticism of our economic system, the critique of capitalism debate, is concerned, this is a very useful approach. There is no need to determine whether one is for or against certain relations or ideas, only transparency would ensure that everyone can talk about the same, and this is mostly helpful in a debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But all of this remains hidden – today you didn't defend it at all. I don't trust in the market alone. Of course: Large investors or Quasierts take a picture of the conditions in the Board of Directors, which can also make a better picture of other states, such as the transactions in the Supervisory Board and how well the Supervisory Board actually fulfils its legal function, primarily of controlling control. Next Problem Point: Supervisory functions. It is a slight improvement that a limit is ever thought of. I tell you, however, that for a country like Austria, the upper limit with ten supervisory functions that a person may hold is respectfully eight for listed companies, plus ten more for so-called associations – grandmothers, mothers, grandchildren, daughters – in the form of society a little. Just theoretically, that could be twenty. My problem is less that, where companies are interconnected, appropriate occupations are carried out. A member of the board of directors of a parent company may well be in the Supervisory Board of a subsidiary – this may even make economic sense. The fact that there's a special stock here, if you want to, is all right. But the basic question of wanting to limit it at ten or just eight is easy for us – thumbs and pi – to take the double too high. They are promoting conditions in which we find them right now in Austria. They also promote conditions such as the Siegi Wolf case – I still consider this to be a scandal that has not yet been warmly and openly honoured – that someone who is sitting in a Supervisory Board, in the case of the state ÖIAG, is putting up with information or preparing acts to frustrate the most desirable pieces of this ÖIAG to others, namely those where he himself is in a decisive position, in this case to the Magna. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to drive very far around in Europe to find such conditions. And I do not at all understand the attitude that comes out here, because especially those countries that have a tradition as regards the question of market economy and exchanges, namely the Anglican countries, have much stricter rules, on the one hand, in actual cuts and restrictions, such as here, and on the other hand in the transparency rules. – But they leave out the opportunity, which is why we also have our scepticism and our rejection. The same applies to own balance sheet control posts. I also asked myself: Isn't that too much bureaucracy? No, you can look at it, you can read it, it would produce very wholesome effects. Not least, there is this again in the USA, the United Kingdom and, by the way, also in Germany. So you can go through all the examples, rarely can you get to a point that has been particularly well implemented, many points are not implemented properly and at least so many are not taken up at all, and that is the problem with this company law change law. They won't win us to agree. In conclusion: We have a similar problem with competition law. If we already want to introduce a leniency regulation, it must work like that. If someone who appears as a witness at all does not know at all whether he is better placed than one who is considered to be only accused, then this is not a real crowning rule, because that does not lead to the appropriate incentive. I admit that improvements are now thought of or planned, but I also think that the construction is quite empty. Well meant stop is often not well hit. By the way, I agree with the Company Law Change Act that it is well meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10572	Mr Böhmdorfer is next speaker. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10594	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Your last words, Mr Kogler, have already disappointed me very much, because we do not know now: [[Abg. May. Kogler: I think so!]] Did you not mean it well, or did you not properly understand what this law says? I say that quite openly once. I would like to discuss this with you because it is possible to understand what the legislator's intention is here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We already have that in committee!]] These laws are primarily based on the Ministry of Justice. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well meant, but badly hit!]] This has an incredibly high level of competence in all economic areas. I say once again, in competition with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Justice makes almost the more decisive laws, but this does not say anything about the significance of the ministries. We have the share right in the Ministry of Justice, we have the trade code, we have the GesmbH law, we have the bankruptcy order, the compensation system, the e-commerce law, the latter in total new – I could continue this list for a long time. So there is enormous competence and a huge sense of responsibility, and the people just didn't deserve it, Mr Kogler, that they say they didn't even mean it well. I'm telling you that quite openly. It is a pity that you poison the climate here, and it is not very pleasant for Mr Jarolim to say that nothing has happened in the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You didn't even want to answer the questions in the committee!]] - I'll tell you. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Little until now...!]] Nothing happened, you said. There is a resolution of the National Council of December 2003, which explicitly states that a strengthening of confidence in the Austrian economy and in the Austrian economy is planned for the economy. Here we certainly had in mind corporate governance. It is a shame that I admit that I think there is an incorrect philosophy. What is not binding works better than what is binding. - I'll give you the right to criticise you. But that's the only thing. Indeed, it is desirable that the intentions of this corporate governance should increasingly be taken over in the Austrian legal system. But only what has happened in the field of improving the quality of the audit can be seen. This is a very important matter in which the responsibility of the Supervisory Boards is really required. There is also a novel to the Commercial Code which is being implemented today, there is a law coming into force in Bälden, namely a novel of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, and there is also the newly created Advisory Board for Accounting, which provides legal support, namely through the review, and the Austrian positions is also represented in Brussels. And a little bit I have to give you the right again. [[Abg. May. Kogler: In the “Press” you yourself have spoken against most of the provisions of this draft!]] – You also need to read the “press” completely. I'll come to something I'd like to see more developed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Böhmdorfer counters...!]] In § 82a of the Stock Exchange Act, we, the Freemans, would have liked to have a personal liability for negligent incorrect financial information by managers. This would certainly have been a signal because, in principle, every Austrian is liable for negligent action. Why not also the managers who would have to deal with such information particularly carefully? This was unenforceable, but that was feasible because it made a lot of things clear and the problem-consciousness turned in the direction. It became known that the company is already liable for such incorrect information. It is up to the company to lay down the obligations of law in relevant service contracts. That's also responsible business.What I was disappointed about is insider trading. We would have liked to have had a ten-year penalty for insider trade, but it has only been five years. But after all, this is an increase of two to five years, and that is to be welcomed. If you say that the Supervisory Boards have not been strengthened in their function, I have to answer: That's not how it is! You've done this so easy. A Supervisory Board should now no longer be the managing director of a subsidiary of a company in which it is a Supervisory Board and vice versa. It is surprising that there has been no such thing at all. There is now also the ban on cross-linking, except for some sensible exceptions, that someone is there and at the same time Supervisory Board there, and also vice versa. That too has been done, but it will be abolished. Advisory contracts must be disclosed, and their qualifications must also be presented to everyone. It's prohibitive once when someone has to say how good he is, and he has to make a conversation. There will be a lot of those who are now unfit to sit in their positions, do not even trust themselves; I hope so at least. On what Mr Jarolim said to the Supervisory Boards, one must also reply to something – probably he has another topic now, because otherwise he would listen –: Under current law, supervisory councils have the maximum number of ten without privileges, i.e. ten supervisory councils are possible if no privileges exist, and now there are only eight. We even had 20 of the privileges at the moment, now it's only more than eight. – A dramatic 60 percent reduction. And that's how it goes. In some areas, up to 80 percent of the possible maximum number of Supervisory Board mandates has been reduced. Those who do not recognize this as progress have simply not read the law or have no idea of the whole problem. It's a shame you don't want a basic consensus that this country deserved. Austria is an important economic location, and to a large extent the jobs we can offer are also dependent. It is a pity that you do not cooperate in this direction so that this economic location is really expanded. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On this occasion, I would like to thank the authorities of the Ministry who have worked for more than a year – sometimes under animosities, as they have been charged today – in an incorruptible way. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Sonja Bydlinski – probably she is again modest in the second row; I do not see her now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dr. Bydlinski is highly recognized in specialist circles. I wish you, Mrs Doctor, that you continue to be so objective as to keep your willingness to talk to everyone in this country open, even if you are unfairly indirectly in the plenary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Competition law and antitrust law are also reworded. Mr. Dr. Auer, author of this law, I believe is not here; a quiet worker and great thinker who has formulated this law within a short time and adapted it to EU directives. I would also like to thank him very much for his team, especially Dr. Auinger. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I hope that we may succeed in making a more basic consensus sometime when it comes to doing something for the Austrian economy. It may be more important than you believe. It is a shame that you have such a responsible position in your activity towards the Court of Auditors. There you should actually practice more economic competence – then we will also understand ourselves better.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10743	Mr Marizzi is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10764	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I don't think anyone doubts the competence of the Ministry of Justice. I think the officials there have worked very well. I also believe that the law originally resulted from a four-party application. But because you talked about the basic consensus: I believe, Mr Böhmdorfer, that the basic mood is bad – I will come back to it later – too bad to reach a basic consensus. Mrs. Fekter has explained this objectively. I believe that when we talk about transparency and hygiene here, it is not about eight or ten supervisory councils sitting in companies, including several companies. I also believe that no one is envious of a supervisory board or a board of directors. But if these companies write black numbers, gain 10.20 percent and then take the same board and the same supervisory boards a 10 or 20 percent reduction in the workforce, then the basic consensus is destroyed. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's right! You're right!]] And that's actually floating over the whole, Mrs. Partik-Pablé. That is why we are against it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not what it says inside!]] We are also opposed because we do not believe that nine key points are being respected. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Excuse me! We don't need to apologize as an opposition for being against a law! – We have not achieved transparency; the ownership structure has not improved; that listed companies have to publish important information in the company book, that has not happened either. And, my dear colleague, the balance sheet control agencies in listed companies have not been created, of course. For the basic mood and for the basic consensus. – Let us take the Austrian stock companies back: The Austrian stock companies initially paid €6.8 billion in tax from 2001 to 2006. In 2006, Mr. colleague, they pay only €3.8 billion, that is, 39 percent less – and workers pay by 4 percent more wage tax over the same period! My previous speakers spoke of the basic mood, of basic consensus. Mrs Fekter, Mr Jarolim and Mr Böhmdorfer have explained this. Because this basic attitude is not respected and because you are responsible for this fundamental vote, we do not agree with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10847	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Donner builder for 4 minutes at the speaker's desk. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10868	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marizzi has again shown us very clearly today how the basic understanding of the SPÖ is for economies. When it comes to a company law amendment law on the basic rules for companies to enable them to operate, you are only talking about how They want to dictate to the companies anything about how many employees they have to hire or not to hire. You've been following these concepts for decades. You are, I think, the exponent who brings a lot of experience to this. These concepts have failed spectacularly. I don't think we need to try that again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to pay particular attention to the antitrust law, which is one of the agenda items dealt with in this context. It is, I believe, through this new antitrust law, which we are going to adopt today, a fundamental change of philosophy. While, according to the old antitrust law in the post-war period, it is understood that cartels are something necessary, which is simply to be regulated by the state or a court, and is controlled accordingly, we are based on a comprehensive prohibition of cartels in this new law and thus our legal situation is similar to international understanding and, above all, to European law. According to the old legal situation, it was, for example, – to illustrate this only briefly – that cartels, but also various other agreements among companies were not in principle prohibited, but had to be notified, were examined in an extensive investigation procedure and then approved or not approved by the court. Such authorizations were also temporary, up to a maximum of five years, which led to the fact that, of course, a high administrative burden at the cartel court was necessary in order to cover all these cartels. to record the registers, but also to carry out the test procedures in the submission of a cartel, which has made it necessary to carry out a very comprehensive examination of very difficult legal and economic issues, and ultimately to decide as well. It was not so easy, however, to prohibit a cartel. Before this could be done, it was necessary to check whether conditions were possible here and whether the application for approval of the cartel was not capable of improving. In total, this was a very great effort for the administration of cartels, while today we are taking the step forward with this present antitrust law, by saying that cartels are in principle something prohibited, something prohibited, and there are only very isolated, quite specified exceptions from this ban, and the companies have to examine it in their own responsibility. In other words, there is no longer any application and authorisation procedure here, but a ban with certain exceptions, which must be examined independently by the companies and answerable accordingly. I believe that it is a very important step in the future of the common Europe to introduce this system accordingly in Austria, because of course it is very difficult to have a world of increasingly different international companies in different countries or internationally and in Austria. I would therefore like to join with the thanks of my previous speaker in both areas, both in terms of the company law amendment law and in terms of the antitrust law and the competition law, thanks to the ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, who have really done a very, very good, well-founded and objective right work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10931	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10953	Mr President. Dear Minister! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Years ago, in Brussels, I learned that Austria was in line with European standards in the field of antitrust law, competition law. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's been a long time!]] That's been a long time, Mrs. Colleague, yes. There have been improvements, we have a new competition law, but nevertheless, Mrs Colleague: Our problem is that we are still doing too little to combat this carteling, that we are still doing too little to optimize the offer especially for consumers due to problems in carteling. I can now take a very simple example of this by means of the antitrust law. This antitrust law, in particular, introduces the legal exception system, and it is precisely because of this system that the detection of cartels is difficult, Mrs Colleague. The merger control did not then make the necessary changes, and therefore we will not be able to support this form of the antitrust law. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you asked the cartel lawyer!]] Yes, but this has unfortunately not been fully reflected in the form we originally wanted in your proposal. That is why our criticism of this proposal and our rejection of it. In short, the Competition Act, which is now also being modernised, and finally the Company Law Change Act. – The new law on competition is about a new leniency regime. You all know supermarkets in Austria are trying to find customers with the cheapest offers. And now, of course, these supermarket chains are trying to exert appropriate pressure on the producers that the goods are delivered as cheaply as possible, so that there are the lock offers. And this price pressure, which is particularly applied to local, regionally situated producers, often also gives rise to a corresponding reduction in competition. This producer cannot go into any other chain, so to speak, because there are agreements here and because the delivery conditions are not that optimized here. Now there is a precedent in a very well-known chain in Austria, which has to do with delivery conditions for a food from the upper mill district. This would be very, very important, so that the antitrust attorney, so that the competition authority can fully provide the documentation of these price agreements and price dumpings, so that the local economy – in your mind – will finally be re-opened to better opportunities in these supermarket chains and they will not only get rid of the goods there at dumping prices, but also at really competitive prices. That is why our rejection of your draft law, which unfortunately does not bring about reforms in this direction, also makes it difficult for the legislation to be applied. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... has this leniency regime been introduced? There was no such thing before!]] Finally, the Company Law Change Act. – It was very interesting, Mrs Fekter – I am happy to have the dialogue with you – that you have talked about further development, that it is necessary to continue developing this law as well. By doing so, you indirectly admit that the current draft law is far from satisfactory. Mr Böhmdorfer! You have pointed out – and I am very grateful to you, although you were not quite honest in your criticism – that it is about expanding the economic location, and you have also said that you are against voluntaryness. I am against it, too, because disclosure must be mandatory. This creates confidence and something like national or European consensus throughout economic development, if it is really revealed by management, what is deserved. The other point, Mr Böhmdorfer: You said it was about limiting insider trading on the stock exchange. – This has been done to a lesser extent with this law, and that is where our criticism is based. I should just like to point out another aspect which Mr Kogler did not mention in detail, but which you pointed out briefly: the ban on cross-border union. Mr Böhmdorfer, there are exceptions; I can quote them: “In the light of the explanations, it is sufficient to demonstrate that a company that is too less than 20 percent involved in another... and with which it does not form a group, demonstrates its participation in the annex to the annual financial statements and, therefore, its intention to maintain its participation on a permanent basis for strategic considerations. This simple approach, however, makes the exception to the rule and the sensible prohibition of cross-connecting ineffective." And that's just an example. With your derogations, you will prevent transparency that we need, so that we really have a good position as an economic location in the European economy and simply give insight. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We have them!]] I do not repeat the number of supervisory councils et cetera, the arguments are clearly on the table. The debate is factual and we will continue the debate, also in thanks to the judicial body. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11059	Now, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (on the way to the speaker's desk) I don't need that, Mr President, that's too long!]] - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11096	Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said several times today that this law should lead to an increase in investor security. We know how urgent this is, because many people today tend to put their money, their savings, in particular, on pension provision in shares, and of course every burglary leads to enormous uncertainty. In Austria, we have really tried to make the Vienna Stock Exchange a very good location, and therefore we are also obliged to ensure that those companies listed in Austria also give investors appropriate security. We have seen that these great pleas in the past – which has already been mentioned – have led to the fact that investors are very uncertain. For example, the Enron plea, which so to speak gave the start in the Pleitenserie, has caused very great damage. Thousands of small investors have been damaged. The stock has originally had a value of 99 dollars and has then fallen to 66 cents. It is quite clear that such a thing of course leaves profound memories with investors. I am really glad that we are giving security with this law, and I know how difficult it is. We have negotiated this law for more than a year. Mr Böhmdorfer has already mentioned the work of Dr. Bydlinski, who has really made a very intense effort to reach an agreement there. Especially because of the rotation – external or internal – we have had very, very large discussions with those concerned, with tax advisors, and I am glad that we have now gone through a variant that also includes in the international field those control mechanisms that are common and which also ensure that we have very good and strong control here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since today's complaint has been made that too little has happened, I would like to say: Well, we could have imagined that some of the provisions are harder. For example, we also wanted a higher level of punishment for insider trading. But at least it is about accepting this law as well. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: This is accepted...!]] It must also be acceptable to the economy what we decide here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We cannot remove ourselves too much from the economy! – So, as I said, it is necessary that we find an agreement there somewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Lord of Oillinger...!]] – Mr. Ollinger, for example. So far, it has been possible for a chairman to hold twenty presidencies – that is basically a mistake! We have now reduced this to four chairmen in the field of stock exchanges. So I think you're welcome for what happened. Or: Five presidencies and five other mandates have now been limited to four presidencies. So something's already happened, and you have to accept that. Of course, there will be a further development of this law, and I am convinced that in the course of practice there will be evidence of where the mistakes are and where we need to re-adjust something, and we will certainly do so. But for now, I think that was a very big step and a good step, and that is why we also agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11167	Mr Puswald is now speaking. 3 minutes is his own speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11188	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In fact, according to Mr Jarolim's communication on the legally condemned Minister of the ÖVP, Krones-Taurer, one would have been able to go on the agenda and leave it at the request of the Federal Minister for Education, if the response of Mrs. Dr. Fekter had not been as bad as she had been. This reaction insists on the conclusion that the ÖVP has now apparently chosen independent justice after the independent ORF for its party policy influence, and I say to you, Mrs Fekter: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] You will not bring this matter off the table with a sweeping remark! We will remain in it and will try to clarify why an ÖVP Minister's Secretary of State is in freedom and what is behind it despite judicial condemnation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Then don't wipe it off the table, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I didn't erase it from the table, I just said...!]] On Company Law Change Act, Mrs Colleague: This law has announced to Mr. Federal Minister other than Dr. Böhmdorfer the intention of strengthening Austria's economic location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Mr Ikrath, I understand your excitement – it all the more confirms that we are right with our suspicion. In the ORF, it has become obvious that in the judicial system, it will still explain what influence your party has in mind. Look, Mr Tancsits says...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11245	Mr Ikrath, you are the next speaker. Let Mr Puswald speak, and then answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11260	Mr President, thank you very much for your kind support. Mr Ikrath was still written in the main book: The suspicion would not be raised if Mr Tancsits had not expressed himself to the judicial system, as he had just spoken recently in connection with the Federal Council of Kampl. And that would also be a case where the ÖVP should consider whether it should not only separate itself from its government partner, who has a brown past to deal with, but also from a Member-College Tancsits, who challenges justice in a way that is most concerned by the rule of law. Back to Company Law Change Act: Minister other than Böhmdorfer has meant that this law should serve to strengthen the economic location Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] This kind of treatment by the government parties has shown that the government is unable to act. I may be able to stop you from having a very clear four-party proposal and a very clear programme that we could have dealt with in the consensus climate. [[Abg. Grillic: (on the speaker)... shameful!]] The government parties were either unable or unable to carry out this programme, and have remained largely half-way – which in turn suggests suspicions that, in particular, the ÖVP is so committed to its lobbys that it cannot, with the necessary focus, ensure that we get legal regulations that really justify confidence in Austria's economic location. And if a party's lobbys are arrested so far that it's no longer going on, it's supposed to stop, as we've often requested, to throw the towel and say: We have failed, and step back. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] This, Mr Grillitsch, you don't like to hear, but it's like this: They failed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11330	Mr Puswald, the accusation of a “brown past” is already very worrying, I must say. [[Abg. Grill: The whole speech was worrying!]] I have the minutes transmitted, and then we'll talk about it. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11362	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I do not want to say any more about what Mr Puswald said now than that for us the “NEWS” or an APA broadcast on the “NEWS” does not form a basis for granting relevance to this information in the House, but that we should usually look at things more closely before we come to the speaker's desk here and condemn people and make accusations to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's right!]] The second is that I too – Mr Marizzi is now fortunately in the hall, Mr Kogler is already gone – am always very impressed by this nostalgia of the state, which still prevails in the SPÖ ranks. [[Abg. Marizzi: Fairness! Fairness!]] We will not find, as you are right, a basic consensus, because you still adhere to the principle of “more state, less private” and we consistently represent the opposite, Mr Marizzi! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Forced management!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Fairness!]] And that's why you're just going to stay in the opposition, and we'll continue to take responsibility for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: This is not about..., but about fairness!]] The implementation of the National Council resolution was a huge challenge because the balance was between those legal provisions necessary to strengthen the economic location of Austria, the capital market and the trust of investors, on the one hand, and the prevention of those superfluous regulations that would cause the exact opposite and harm the companies, the economic location and the interests of investors. The positive approach to this challenge has therefore been of such importance, because this law constitutes a European pioneer act and we are actually entering European new country with this law. That is why I would like to point out at this point that, through very intensive discussions, also through very controversial discussions and particularly very hard work on the part of the Minister of Justice and her legislators, I agree with them, especially Dr Bydlinski, and the Justice Committee and Mrs Fekter, on the other hand, have succeeded in creating something like a square of the circle and in presenting today a law that keeps this particular balance. And in the sense of the economy, I would also like to express this with great satisfaction. Even if I personally would have preferred to see a less legal regulation and more confidence in the market's self-regulatory capacity, I must say, given the initial situation and the assessment draft, that this law is now a very good compromise. Of course, we can say that there is still too little transparency. There are two options: Either you are not really bona fide, or you have no idea of the practice at all, because every investor can ask at any Annual General Meeting any question about the incomes of the board members, and therefore there is already enough opportunity to create transparency. My suspicion, therefore, is – and I would like to conclude, and ask you to consider this again – that there is a very essential law here, which one now obviously wants to use exclusively to stir up envy complexes on this one issue. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: But this is cheap polemic!]] – That may be the way of the SPÖ, ours it is not.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11477	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Mag speaks. Miklutsch. She has no time limit. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11498	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I should like to remind you that this package of measures aimed at strengthening the economic location of Austria at a resolution adopted by the National Council of 29 December 1990. January 2004, which you have unanimously decided here in the National Council, is based on the fact that we have guided ourselves in the field of the Ministry of Justice in the implementation of this legislative project in this resolution of the National Council. You can imagine how controversial, as the current debate here in plenary proves to me, was the debate ahead of this measure and also in the area of the legal process of implementation. However, I should like to point out that this law on company law contains very important provisions which clearly represent an improvement compared to the current situation – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Kogler today. I only mention here the limitation of the number of supervisory mandates that a person is allowed to observe: Here there is a reduction of up to 80 percent compared to the status quo. We have introduced a guarantee of the quality and independence of the work of the Supervisory Boards. We have strengthened the rights of the Supervisory Board and the rights of the Annual General Meeting. We have prevented a self-examination process from being carried out by auditors. We have provided particularly strict grounds for exclusion for auditors. We have also provided for an improvement in the liability of auditors, so that their liability is now also insured. It has also been referred to several times today that it was above all the wish of the opposition to also legalize the Corporate Governance Code and to include it in the form of a regulation or similar in this Company Law Change Package. In this context, I should like to point out that the Corporate Governance Code per se is a very good instrument and will certainly contribute a great deal to improving corporate governance in these areas through the self-commitment of companies. Only: This Corporate Governance Code contains some recommendations and binding measures, and in particular the scope of the recommendations is not such a definition that it is necessary to be incorporated into a law or regulation. That was also one of the main reasons why a one-to-one adoption of the Corporate Governance Code in this Company Law Change Act or on the basis of this Company Law Change Act in a regulation de facto was not possible. However, we have included in this Company Law Change Act those provisions which the Corporate Governance Code has provided for that could be justified. I also have to consider – and there should obviously be a gap in knowledge here – that since 2004, the companies listed on the Prime Market have been declaring themselves, so explain whether they are confessing to the Corporate Governance Code. We have already committed the listed companies listed on the Prime Market on the Vienna Stock Exchange to comply with the Corporate Governance Code. This brings me to the next provision, which was also called for, namely to disclose the salaries of the board: Here it is true that those companies that are now on the Prime Market are of course subject to these Articles 30 and 31 of the Corporate Governance Code, and thus already – without having to provide for this in the Company Law Change Act here – this obligation to transparency of the board salaries exists. I should also like to point out the following: This balance sheet control was also called for several times. . I assume that the High National Council knows that the implementation of an EU directive, namely that of the Transparency Directive, is currently in the process of drafting such a balance sheet control body. In this case, the Ministry of Justice is not the Ministry of Justice, but the Ministry of Finance, and I assume that in the foreseeable future the balance sheet control body which you have requested and which we believe is also necessary will also be established. I would also like to take the opportunity to speak to you here, to make a comparison with the Federal Republic of Germany, as is always foreseen in the economy: In Germany, the responsibility of the examiner was generally set at €2 million; in Austria, we have a liability of €4 million for listed companies. So here we are also much stricter than our colleagues in Germany. Part of the Company Law Change Act also provides for internal rotation of auditors. In Austria, we have provided for a five-year period, while in Germany this is possible at a distance of seven years; and in Austria, it is also necessary for the examiner to rotate each time. It is also important that, contrary to Germany, a financial expert must also be present in the audit committee for listed companies in future, in addition that we have provided very strict grounds for exclusion for auditors in the Commercial Code, which in Germany are only intended for listed companies, but also for very large corporations in Austria. To sum up, this company law amendment law is a very good compromise from my point of view. The emphasis is on “compromise”, even I don’t want to say that here. The first drafts were even more stringent than is now planned, but we are very pleased with this compromise. At this point I would also like to thank my employees, who have used a lot of time and energy to actually bring this law to such an extent that we can discuss it here today in the National Council. A warm thank you at this place! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I just want to take a brief look at the Krones-Taurer case. I've assigned my employees to take a look at what's going on here from our point of view. – It is currently true that we only have the information contained in this APA report on ‘NEWS’, and I can only tell you at this point that we are going to examine very carefully why the criminal offence has not yet taken place. The call for criminal proceedings has already been made, and from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, it is currently being carefully examined why this criminal offence has not yet taken place. However, I would also like to say at this point that I would also like to hear from Mr Jarolim that in this case there are not only accusations in the field of justice, but also all too likely accusations in the field of the Council of Magistrates of the city of Vienna, as I have taken from a broadcast by Mr Oellinger. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The magistrate issues the business licences!]] – I just want to say: For the sake of completeness, we must stay there, please, already on the ground, and if, then we will discuss everything! But as we have said, we will certainly examine that. In any case, we have a written question on this matter, as I have taken out a report from Mr Oellinger's report on the APA, so I am here anyway to answer a written question to the House, which I of course would be very pleased to be able to inform the high national council in this area in a comprehensive manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11543	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11567	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! A few words on antitrust law: In principle, it is natural to welcome the fact that, in line with the European standard, we are in line with the European Union's rules. It is only a shame that, in an area where Austria has had a leading procedure – in the context of the so-called Lombard club, there is a decision by the European Court of Justice that, of course, as a representative of consumers, who are particularly affected by high interest rates, they have not been given access to the procedures that have led to a condemnation of the Austrian banks. It would have been appropriate to find such a scheme for claims for damages in the mass proceedings that, of course, it would have been much easier to provide consumers with a claim for compensation for damages in cases where antitrust agreements were concluded. Unfortunately, it is regulated in such a way that this depends on the agreement of the parties. That's the wrong way! All new antitrust regulations in Europe go in a different direction: that, of course, one takes into account consumer claims for damages and allows the chairman to publish parts or the entire content of a procedure without the agreement of the parties, if he serves to enforce legitimate claims or to defend claims. – It is a pity that this is not inside. Otherwise, it is a regulation that makes sense. It is a pity that the Corporate Governance Code did not actually get as far as you wanted to come. If you say that the listed companies have agreed on this, that is not true. Only one third of listed companies... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... said they have to explain themselves! That's the Minister's right!]] Only one third of the listed companies comply voluntarily with this code. This is, of course, far too far too far, because in Germany there are already very different ways to go. There listed companies undertake to provide information annually under the Code. That would be reasonable. Trust in the economy has been hit internationally, in particular by wrong balance sheets, by incorrect confirmation notes. This could have been counter-taxed here – unfortunately, it has not come that far. And that's why it's very easy... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Austria is not hit! Look at you..., then you know we're good at it internationally!]] It is simply too little for modern economic law. Trust can't be restored if you do half things!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11620	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11642	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Company Law Change Act is concerned, it can be said, in summary, that it is a further development, that it serves the security of investors, that it ensures more transparency – and that it is of great benefit to the capital market in Austria as a whole. We know that the capital market in Austria is not as important as in other capital-intensive countries around Austria. But it has been the efforts of this Federal Government to increase the capital market in Austria by to promote targeted measures. This has also happened, and this is also in the interests of the Austrian economy. It is also in the interests of the economy that we have a capital market structure that guarantees security, transparency, even in the interests of investors. Therefore, we will accept with good conscience this further development of the Company Law Change Act, also knowing that we have a certain pioneering role in this regard in Europe and thus also comply with the capital market requirements of a modern economic nation of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11678	Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is speaking now. She too wishes to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11699	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We of the ÖVP very much agree with this law. I really do not understand all these precepts that have come from the opposition. In principle, you focus on a single reservation, the accusation that this package of laws contains only a lack of transparency for manager salaries. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's not true!]] I really don't understand this, all the more so than I do in the opposition parties. [[Call the ÖVP:Really!]] Mr Puswald and also Mr Wittmann, you already need to know that there are appropriate disclosure obligations, so-called transparency provisions, which we believe are perfectly enough, already in other laws. Therefore, the impression arises when you discuss the opposition about this package of laws that the opposition here simply takes a Justament stand! An argument is drawn from the moth chest of Marxism or elsewhere, and one tries to prevent a reasonable development on the capital market, which will also bring about the Company Law Change Act, and to prevent further development by refusing consent. I would just like to draw your attention to the relevant laws. There is, in fact, Mr Kogler, the so-called'relationary limitation' law. Accordingly, the Court of Auditors, as the institution of Parliament, has to submit to it a report on income trends. [[Abg. Marizzi: But it's not about that!]] This includes income in the institutions audited by the Court of Auditors. What you want, Mr Marizzi, and with your very self-evident, very strange concept of the basic mood, which is so bad, has actually been dealt with in an appropriate law. [[MEPs Marizzi and Dr. Fekter: fundamental vote!]] That's why it's probably your very personal bad mood. I'm very sorry, but the economy in Austria is going to be, thank God, good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] By the way, I would like to express my thanks to Mrs Bydlinski for the very constructive cooperation and for the excellent legal work, and of course also to her colleagues. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11777	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. She too wishes to speak for 3 minutes. - Please, Mrs Magistra.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11798	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The central point of this law and interest of all of us has been to strengthen investor confidence in the stock market. Now the criticism focuses on the non- file of manager salaries. I might also like to add here, Mrs. Dr. Moser, Mr. Kogler – he is not here now – that it is to be remembered that more and more stock companies are opening up their manager salaries in Austria too. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Voluntary, if at all!]] – Voluntarily open, completely right! What is particularly disturbing to me about your argumentation is this image of an unmistakable consumer and a totally unmistakable citizen, who is not only wearing this matter of law, but always wearing it. I am glad and firmly convinced that, as legislators, we do not completely exclude every criticism of each standard subject. Of course, it is also a statement of a stock company not to disclose the manager's salaries, and of course I can rate it as investors and consumers respectively. That, please, we can really conjure up our investors, and I think that is absolutely right. Furthermore, we must look at what this law applies to. It is not so – and unfortunately it is not – that in Austria we have a huge abundance of listed Austrian stock companies, but rather it must be in our common interest that many of the small and medium-sized family businesses, which have very excellent figures and data, trust and dare to go the step towards the conversion into a stock company, whether listed or not. I believe that by this law we have taken exactly the measure that makes it possible and interesting for a medium-sized company to set up a stock company – while simultaneously protecting investors. For this I would like to thank the staff in the Ministry, the Federal Minister, but also the former Minister Böhmdorfer, especially our Marie Theres Fekter.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11836	The next speaker is Mr Ledolter. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11857	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! This proposal implements a law that is important for the economy and which is to be subsumed under “confidence-building measures”. This regulation is important for the companies. It is important for the capital market. It is primarily for the security of sites, ladies and gentlemen, and thus also for jobs. Let us not again and again be different from what he really is, ladies and gentlemen. It is about claiming Austrian companies on the market, and it is improved by transparency, by increased permeability and, above all, by security for investors, for investors and for all who represent the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! There will only be jobs if these conditions are guaranteed. And this confidence, which is necessary to strengthen this confidence in Austria's economic location, is the subject of these regulations. We have some more far-reaching rules here than in Germany, without ensuring the exaggeration of intervention that was partly thought of by the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been done several times, but it shows a great deal of attention that the Federal Minister for Justice and her team have applied here in order to come to this rule, which on the one hand ensures that the whole of the Soft Law, the Corporate Governance continues to have its place in the field of the economy, but on the other hand also the necessary concrete measures. If, on the one hand, I repeatedly hear the opposition's attempt to enforce the disclosure of salaries in the board of directors, I can only imagine that there is a very efficient control of performance in economic activities, and that perhaps the opposition colleagues would be well advised to ask once in the area of magistrates and similar institutions, as they look forward to the necessary transparency of salaries. When Mr Wittmann talks about half-thousands, I think it is good that these dirigistic and plan-economic approaches, which have always come, have remained outside, that these wishes have not been observed and that today's decision brings into force a modern law for investors, for the economy and thus for the people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11902	Mr Praßl, the last speaker to speak, is Mr Praßl. He also wants to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11924	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The package of competition on the agenda today is largely aligned with the rules on competition in the European Community. This applies to the new antitrust law, but also to the novelle to the Competition Act. However, in the sense of the Austrian economy, I think it is right to harmonise the antitrust law in line with developments in the Community, and I recognise the present revision of the Austrian antitrust law. It creates legal certainty and clarity for the entrepreneurs concerned. As positive I note that the new antitrust law also incorporates those provisions of Community law which ensure equal treatment for Austrian agriculture with farms in other countries. I am therefore referring to the adoption of the agricultural rules laid down in the EU Regulation, and in particular to the European Union's important producer communities. Agriculture is interested in a credible competition policy both as a consumer and as a producer. What market power can mean, agriculture is able to report in rather painful experiences in both functions. There is a need for effective control of market power and the elimination of any abuse. I would also like to draw attention to problems relating to the still incomplete implementation of the internal market in operating resources. And Austrian agriculture is also facing concentration in the food sector. It would be useful to leave the specific determination of market power to a judicial decision. This is where foreign experience is to be studied and collected and conclusions drawn for us in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11966	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Legal speaking time: 20 minutes. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] – I ask you to lower the general level of noise! Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11993	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the short period of 20 minutes, I would like to inform you of some important points relating to this draft law and invite you to consider a few more points. The key word of the ÖVP delegates is “dirigist”, the second word is “planning”. Do you know where board salaries have never been published? – In dirigist plan economies! In all my discussions with companies, business policies and corporate cultures, I have not yet become aware of any of the board's content from a state-led, planned enterprise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] This also has to do with the fact that there are no interested parties who can claim their claims – such as shareholders and shareholders on the one hand, as well as employees on the other. This is not just about knowing who is getting more and more and who is getting less and less in the same company. This is also not uninteresting, however, that directors, who often fail to bring the company over the next round, are very likely to create one, namely to increase their salaries by 50, 60, 70, partly over 90 percent and then to call: But don't let anyone know! Everyone knows how many people are being canceled, everyone knows how much of the services are deleted in the company, but how much the board of directors have personally approved from other board members who sit with them under the title of a Supervisory Board, that is to be kept secret from the public. – Of course, in times like these, where one is directed at the expense of the other, one has a great interest in not getting too much public about it. That's the first one. However, the second and most important thing is – and you should take this seriously as an economic party: It is particularly important to know from the top of capital companies what interests they are determined by! And there is less of the absolute level of the individual's board content than the secondary provisions. Let me give you an example. [[Abg. Neudeck: Which country are you talking about?]] The pioneer company, which started with the Stock Options on the Board of Directors, was the First Bank with the remaining Director-General. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why “yet”?]] There, Stock Options has actually begun to be anchored as the central incentive instrument for the board members, and a good tax treatment has also been enforced. If you look at today's financial market surveillance reports, in which the board of directors of capital companies have to specify in detail their share sales and purchases – there is transparency, only too little knowledge that there is this source at all! – then you will always find option exercises at the first board members, at quite certain times. Now, once shareholders and shareholders and potential shareholders know that the option is actually the driving force for the Executive Board's executive activity, they know that the company is managed differently from a classic company. The classic company is based on the company's classic internal values. The classic company is also based on a number of other parameters, but it was never the primary goal of the classic company to raise the stock price at any price. But if I am determined as a member of the board of directors, especially in my interests, by options, I am less interested in the long-term development of the company, but primarily the option! And the first board members have their assets, their assets, mainly in the form of options, which they also regularly, almost every year, perceive as rights in one direction or another. – This is the first point in this context. Secondly, see Mannesan. It was not without reason that German policy, at least German majority policy, said: We also want to know the interests of board members in the case of a takeover. How are the mergers, how are the enemy takeover rules in the individual board contracts? How does a board benefit from its security clause if it has to go in the event of an enemy takeover? And can't his advantage be so great that he's interested in the enemy takeover? That is why German policy has said: So, that too must be published. We want to know what everyone deserves, what the interest is about options and what the mergerrs and other takeover arrangements are. And that belongs to a modern law, because we have seen that the Good Governance Code is simple and simply useless. Since the security officer of the Republic of Austria can make whatever he wants, no more than 7 percent of the companies concerned have made incomplete, partly complete reports. The rest, 93 percent, ignored this, said: What is the interest of Mr. Schenz?- Oh, my God! What do we care about the codex?- Oh, my God! We don't care about that, we don't declare! A serious and responsible minister of justice acts in this situation and says, okay, then we'll force you, then it comes into law. Fortunately, there is this serious and responsible Minister of Justice in the Federal Republic of Germany. And there, too, this is done, where it comes into the law, with which one of us also criticised Annual Meeting Restitution, but otherwise exactly point by point, just as it belongs in the sense of more transparency. That is one of the few points where I am forced to say that, despite all the objections, red-green in Germany is better than black-blue in Austria. That's true once, and you've confirmed that here too. So, and how does this work with the Stock Options now? What are the interests of a manager who is oriented to Stock Options? How do you drive the stock price up? By saving. And what is the best signal to drive stock prices up in the short term? By saying we rationalize, we put people on the street. Check again the latest reports on the performance of some indices in Europe! Most, except for an exception, in the last few days were announcements of so-called rationalizations, i.e. cancellations and dismissals. If you allow the interest of managers and managers in Austria to be determined by options of this kind, then the economic theme is not: strong businesses with safe and satisfied employees, but: as much as possible from them, so that I earn as much as possible on the basis of these options. And these are false impulses, which are impulses for the private interests of the board of directors and against the interests of workers. You will not be able to calculate it in detail, but you know just as well as we do that people are being canceled and rationated on the basis of the option regulations and the option veils in Austria alone, because nothing else remains. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] In the interests of transparency, in the interests of a solidarity welfare state, also knowing that it is being pushed further to the fore, the French answer to the disdain of the social question will not only remain a French answer, you should have considered the whole better. But you are in the interest of a minority of board members and shareholders, and not of the majority of the Austrian population, who are not shareholders of shares, but simply and simply workers. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: And who do you represent?]] And lastly, a very short comment on the number. If something is not done soon to break up in Austria, compared to the Federal Republic of Germany, much more fortified caste of managers, where the group of people who work as Supervisory Board and in the afternoon as Executive Board are constantly expressing mutual trust and increasing salaries, then this caste is a guarantee for internal manager economy at the expense of companies, at the expense of the economy and at the expense of employees. That is why it is also another concern for a reasonable transparent economic policy to break up this caste and make it publicly verifiable and accessible. This is not a plan economy, it is a reasonable balancing economic policy and transparency. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This may not go with you, and that is another reason why, in addition to certain managers and legal positions, those who decide on such laws should also be exchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12077	Mr Böhmdorfer referred to this for a three-minute speech. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12098	Mr President. Dear Minister of Justice of the Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We've had what the Germans are doing to us all the time. I must reply when Mr Pilz says under the applause, including the Socialist Group, that there is a government team here in the interests of the minority of directors and managers. What did you say, Mr. Dr. Pilz? They said that the salaries should be laid open. That's obviously your concern, and that's what it would be like. What's the real thing? – Manager and board salaries are defined by the Supervisory Boards. We have strengthened their rights today! But that seems to have gone away from you. And who's in the Supervisory Boards? There are in those companies you are addressing, but also your party guests, from the Socialist Group in particular. Don't tell me you don't have your people there! Don't tell me you don't have your works councils there! Why don't the works councils ask what managers deserve? Why don't they take care of the contracts you want to disclose? – This is just an excuse because you do not want to accept this reasonable legal regime! The Chamber of Workers knows all the references! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And if the options bother you, Dr. Pilz, please strengthen the rights of the Supervisory Boards! That's what we're doing today. Because the Supervisory Boards are there to control the managers and the Boards. This is how control goes in Austria, not through publications in newspapers and reports to the Public Prosecutor's Office!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12144	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We come to the vote on the draft law on Company Law Change Act 2005 and the title and receipt in 985 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This sign also takes place in a majority way. The draft was therefore adopted by a majority of the third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft antitrust law 2005 in 990 of the supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Jarolim. First of all, I will vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall proceed to the separate vote on § 39 para. 2 as part of the Committee's report, and I ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of it to give a sign on this point. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval for a positive sign. – This is accepted with the two-thirds majority required, which I expressly see here. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – I note that the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution has been adopted. Finally, we reach the vote on the 2005 draft law on competition law, including the title and receipt in 991 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Here, too, I ask for a sign. – The sign is given by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:40:29]] 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (928 d. B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Rules of Procedure, the Enforcement Fees Act, the Law of Law, the Notariatsordnung, the Law of Law and the Criminal Code (execution Rules Novelle 2005 – EO-Nov. 2005) (986 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 602/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Organization of District Courts in Graz (989 d. B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12264	We shall now proceed to points 6 and 7 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. His welcome time is 5 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are opening the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12291	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In advance, perhaps a fundamental remark: I am pleased that the judicial chapter will be discussed at a reasonable time and not only after 8 p.m., Ms. Fekter. And I would also like to take the opportunity, on behalf of my group, to thank the members of the judicial body for their excellent work, for preparing these proposals. [[We welcome the SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] Although we cannot agree with all the areas, we appreciate the work of our fellow Members, and we know how difficult it is to find compromises in this area, after, as Mr President said yesterday in honour, the judicial committee is something special, where the laws are still in place in the committee. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, but now on the issue of the Rules of Procedure-Novelle 2005. If we are discussing the Rules of Procedure, we also need to discuss human debt and liabilities. We need to discuss why 120 000 people in Austria are hopelessly indebted. And there are several reasons for this: Unemployment, divorce, sickness – things that can only be directly influenced by us. Only one thing I would like to say to the government parties: The number of indebted households increases proportionally with the unemployment rate. If we do not fight unemployment in Austria, in Europe, the debt rate will also rise, we will have even more private bankruptcy, and people will no longer know one and the other. The question of the right of execution must therefore be discussed with particular sensitivity. If I look at this proposal, I have to say that it has become a successful compromise in many areas. On the one hand, rules on the protection of obliged persons have been established, on the other hand – and I understand this from the judicial side – have been tried to obtain a discharge in the judicial administration and to speed up the procedures. This can basically be agreed. However, the extension in the simplified authorisation procedure to € 30 000 cannot be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! 30 executions with a dispute value of €30 000 mean that 85 percent of all executions are recorded in Austria. I think you have to be very careful here, and here you also have to discuss questions: Why do people come to such huge debt? Why is this increasing number of executions? Just so you can imagine something below: There were 784 404 claims executions in the previous year. There were 966,521 driving executions. Compared to 2001, there was an increase of about 20 percent. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I believe it is our task to look at the question of why people are becoming more and more indebted, why it is that the banks in Austria are still making loans easily and without the appropriate guarantee, and if they secure, then only in the form of wage paving. One aspect is particularly important from my point of view: 22 per cent of people who visit debt advice are under 25 years of age. Mrs Bundesminister, I know you are not responsible for this alone, but I believe that we in the House should be able to create a concept of measures against the debt of households, especially against the debt of minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12355	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12378	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps I can say in detail to my previous speaker's speech: Of course, we agree that high indebtedness cannot be a particularly good development and that we need to talk about measures and take measures to stop debt, no matter how high it may be. This has also happened in the past, for example with the introduction of the private bankruptcy. Further action, particularly in the area where indebtedness may have been indebted and indebted to a small part, can certainly be discussed in the future, but this has nothing to do with the question of the issue here today of the Rules of Procedure-Novelle. Mr Maier, you have linked this to the increase in value limits for the simplified authorisation procedure. And I would also like to clarify here, as in the Committee, a mistake that prevails. It seems that the simplified authorisation procedure would be a disadvantage for the debtors in the future. In fact, what it is all about is to be able to extend the possibilities of the computer and the high degree of development of our justice in this area, which is internationally recognized, to an even larger area. This means that execution applications can be submitted electronically, but the execution title cannot of course be submitted electronically. The simplified authorisation therefore has no disadvantage for the debtor, because in the normal procedure, as now for executions over €10,000, even in the range up to €30 000, he takes place, of the execution only with the authorization, while in the simplified authorisation procedure he receives an understanding in advance and therefore has the opportunity to object. That is, in fact, the simplified authorisation procedure is also an advantage for the obliged person, because he is experiencing earlier, here there is an execution, and if he believes that it is wrong, he can also do something about it, while he is only now aware of it with the delivery of the authorisation. That is why I cannot follow your concerns here. I believe that there is a misunderstanding here and that the step to extend this system, which has proved successful in other areas, is a right step and leads to simplification and ultimately to a cost reduction for the debtors. However, many other things are included in this paper, which I would like to mention briefly. A very important point is that one makes and simplifies execution permits compatible at European level too. This is also a requirement of the European Union. In a cross-border economic area, I believe it is also important to have and document trust in other judicial systems. Then there are some other smaller areas that also bring an advantage to the obliged, such as: If someone is unjustly put into execution by a false address, he will receive a flat-rate cost replacement in the future. That means that this is a large number of individual measures, but they are correct in their entirety and to which I can congratulate the Federal Minister for Justice and their employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12427	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 7 minutes speaking time. At 3 p.m., I interrupt, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12449	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite clear that the EU proposal on the system of execution is quite positive. It is a harmonisation and simplification. Electronic systems act in this case in the sense of improving the legal status. Our concerns are similar to those of Mr Maier. We also consider the increase in the value limit to €30 000 to be critical. That is why there is also a request for a separate vote. You can be sure that we Greens will certainly take part in the proposal for a law at third reading. The increase in the value limit to €30 000 will still be questioned and our critical position will be documented by our voting behaviour. Mr Donnerbauer, your comments are quite rethinkable. I'll give you the right, maybe there's a little misunderstanding. However, I do not believe that the lawyers of the Chamber of Labour have erred. To that end, I continue to maintain our concerns that, especially in the case of smaller debtors, it must be kept in mind and this regulation is not favourable. I would like to say three or four sentences on the request submitted by Mr Fekter and by Mr Böhmdorfer on the organisation of the District Courts in Graz and on the amendment of the Youth Court Act. In this respect, our rejection is quite clear. They know the discussion about the location of youth courts. We believe that extra-agencies, extra-personnel and also an extra-organisation should be in charge of the youth courts in particular. This was a long discourse, which led to a very intense debate in Vienna. Your request that, in view of the structural measures that are only delayed in Graz, a regulation which is contrary to our original intention, is therefore not to be supported. I have to say that in the case of youth justice, we generally need a different way than you take, and there is no need for your request. It is clear that we agree on one side, on the other. In this sense, I would like the next speakers to follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12489	Mr Böhmdorfer is next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12510	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to return to your comments, Mrs. Moser. It has its own organization throughout Austria for the jurisdiction of young people. It is, Mrs. Dr. Moser, also own – as you say – personnel exist, especially judges. There are also own court buildings, namely cells for young people, and there is also a youth penalty of its own. The only thing that has come to an end is a President, and only that is obvious. Youth jurisdiction has been improved in all areas, in Vienna and also in Graz. And there can really be no argument to reject the following. There is to be a new judicial organization in Graz. That's fact. The building's not finished yet. That's why the law has to come into force a little later. That is really not quite understandable. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Yes, why? You never said why! You can't justify it!]] – Even if you may have missed it and your friend doesn’t get to the train at this building: Of course, I can justify it. Much has been done over the last decades. Austrian justice is one of the most modern, if not even the most modern of the world. It has the highest-grade use of information technology. Of course, a court organization that dates back to 1848 – I promise not – has to be equipped with new structures. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] – If I can't help you for years. To the order of execution. The system of execution is also constantly being innovative. The fact is that a quick and efficient execution procedure serves both the debtor and the creditor, as well as even court proceedings that are quick, an incredible blessing and also an economic efficiency. I can remind you that there is a project in the Ministry of Justice, which is to put together the enforcement, execution of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. It's really not understandable why you don't. The Ministry of Justice's execution is more modern and efficient. In part, it is claimed by the financial system that the financial situation is more efficient and modern, which is not true. The financial situation is only easier when it is executed because it executes its well-known debtor, who has examined it for years, whose balance sheet and assets it knows. The court governor regularly goes to him for the first time, and sometimes for the first time. Nevertheless, it would be right to apply the IT-controlled system of justice also in the financial sector and put the enforcement systems together. This would be an unspectacular modernisation step that could prevent a lot of “toysing”. – Perhaps one can decide in the government to take up this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12568	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl. 5 minutes speaking time. Madam President, I shall interrupt you at 3 p.m. if you do not mind. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12589	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Böhmdorfer, a re- and restructuring of 15 million € and many questions about this building, which have remained open and which no one has yet been able to answer. I too would like to address today's debate on the reorganisation of the District Courts of Graz and, in particular, the District Court of Graz-West. This is a construction that is far too expensive and ultimately not the best solution. In this case, there is no doubt that there was no attempt to achieve cheaper alternatives, although there would have been no doubt. The fact that he is not even ready in time and that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, are being juggling with dates probably no one can really explain. This is a special pallacock, which we will certainly not agree with this time at all. [[Abg. Neudeck: But there they will be sad!]] The establishment of the new Graz-West District Court is just too typical for your policy, Mr. Neudeck, which is used by both national and national authorities at the moment. It's always very different. Cross-ministerially, the Rotstift is set up and public infrastructure is briefly saved, but not before the affected people are put into existence with closure plans, secret plans or secret lists and have spread uncertainty in the population. [[Abg. Neudeck: There is the herbal specialist! This is a herbal speciality!]] In the case of the Styrian District Courts, this would look like: In 2000, you announce that ten district courts are to be closed in Styria, and in 2001 you suddenly threaten to close 29 out of 38 district courts. [[Abg. Scheibner: We do not threaten!]] Citizen protests, signature actions and similar actions. In the end, Mr. Landesrat Schützenhofer of the ÖVP beats his shoulder and announces that he has only twelve district courts to close after the official list. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Wonderful!]] It is suggested to the citizens that the compromise was actually in their interest and that it was really very good for them. At Graz-West, however, things are very different: Where others have to be afraid of their jobs and at their cost saved, a former Justice Minister will briefly build a monument in the Styria by a sum of € 15 million in taxpayers' money. – Where is the sense of saving as you have preached in recent years? Why didn't you think of cheaper variants? These would have helped at least those people who are no longer mobile, for whom it has become an almost insurmountable barrier to take an office without their own car. With Graz-West, an exclusive and exuberant building is built that serves only the Prestige. I don't think it's too bad for that. In order for taxpayers' money to be too expensive for themselves, as we know: whether this is consultant activities, service cars, excess costs for combat jets or, as in the case of Graz-West, is a personal monument. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] And Mrs. Landesführer Klasnic is persistently silent. But, as we know, If you're silent, you're right. Knitted in an EStAG scandal, 380 kV line, or in support of a quaint zoo at the expense of taxpayers you lose as... [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12670	It's 3:00. I am now interrupting the negotiations on this item on the agenda, or you are bringing to the conclusion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12685	Thank you. – This is not a home policy for the people of Styria, and the Steirers will vote in autumn. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You shouldn't have said the final sentence!]] [[15:00]] [[15:00:41]] Request by Dr Josef Cap, Members of Parliament to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture concerning the early appointment of the Managing Director of the Museum of Art and the new appointment of the Board of Trustees of the KHM (635/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12732	We are now moving towards urgent treatment of the self-employed proposal 635/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e13101	I now give the floor to the first applicant, Mr Dr Cap. His speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e13151	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! You know: The Kunsthistorische Museum is a miniature, one of the most important cultural institutions in Austria. School classes visit it, Austrians visit it, tourists come to Vienna extra. So it's a very important institution. This can also be seen from the budget figures of the Federal estimates, for example for the year 2005, in which this museum is allocated the highest basic fee. That's over 20 million €! This shows the significance of this museum. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is therefore not indifferent that, if a Court of Auditors report on the management of this museum is prepared – you can almost say: this group; it includes the Museum of Art or the Theatre – a comprehensive analysis of the shortcomings for one of the most important cultural institutions we have in Austria. This discussion about the management has been conducted for a long time. In summary, it can be said that the Court’s recommendation is essentially to replace the managing director of the Art History Museum. This is, in fact, a number of times in this report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: No!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No! PISA! Cap can't read! At least Court of Auditors reports cannot read the cap!]] There is hardly any example of where you can... – You, from your group, have always said: a supermanager, super successful. [[towards ÖVP]] They defended him and said: You have to see the whole thing. – So: Entry revenues have decreased from €438 000 to €327 000 from 1998 to 2002. I would like to know what's so brilliant! This museum and its management are permanently in the headlines and conversation. It is worth examining individual points of the Court of Auditors report. I can only recommend everyone to read it completely: He's a document. I've never read anything like that since I've been here in the house about an exam. Only the accusation that you know nothing more precisely about the staff structure in the Art History Museum, says much, because in the examination it was not possible to find out under what legal conditions who in which department is employed like. Yes, with the many increases that were questioned during the test and which have been shown to be permanent: This museum employs free-handed people. This is one of the accusations that – I think – are really serious. Or: What do you think if four heads have been in financial management since January 1999? Four different ladders! – Were they incapable? Was that a wrong choice? Have they fled because there was such a chaos, Mrs. Minister? – There is no such thing as a normal operation, except perhaps for Mr Frank Stronach. But we're talking about the Art History Museum. Four ladders seem to have been consumed or put in front of the door or just left. With regard to personnel management: After April 2000, this line was no longer re-occupied. The function in the internal revision was performed only until July 2000. After that, no one was entrusted with the performance of this function. The report calls for the following: What about the internal revision? Why was there no internal revision? Mrs. Minister! What about the famous “in-sich business” of Mr. Seipel? – Sale of the leasing car: The leasing car becomes a service car. Seizel makes a contract with Seizel. This also affects all shops with the museum shop. – This is very special, the museum shop: particularly inefficient! Statistics show a maximum of €12 per visitor. But that's not the decisive thing. The decisive thing is that this museum shop is highly deficient. Because of the deficit one then symbolically passed this on to the museum by 1 s. Immediately, the company's capital was increased by €460,000 – all financed by the Kunsthistorisches Museum. Mr. Hofmann, who was working with Mr. Seiel on this museum shop, received €276,000 in cash. And because he's such a "talker" advisor, he's got another 50 000 € consultant fees. All this for a high-deficit museum shop. – And we are not finished for a long time, and that is why we will also ask the Minister of Finance, as this museum shop and even the Kunsthistorisches Museum look like it with an operational examination, because it is said that there have already been two operational tests. I'd say, Tests of operational tests cancelled on the basis of interventions, because de facto it was not possible to carry out operational tests on the basis of the evidence. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (to ÖVP) Unheard!]] An inconceivable chaos that prevails there, and an inconceivable mess! Therefore, the question to be clarified in this request will also be that each year a sword of stocks of goods is supposed to be in the order of €50,000, that an amount of €8 317 for damaged goods had to be booked out, and that fluctuations in raw deposits on sales goods have been made between 65.6 percent and 148 percent. Maybe to compensate for the disappearance by the additions! This is really an inconceivable state! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Missile!]] And what's more, Museum shop items or own consumption amounted to around 190,000 € for four financial years. – Interested: What does that mean by self-consumption? Has Mr Seipel personally presented gifts to visitors, or when delegations have come? Or did he use the money for birthday parties? What was going on? What is particularly important is the tax conduct of these operations. There is a need for clarity here, because that is a lot of money. But this is also about a certain attitude that I have already tried to describe in the first place. It is about the way in which personnel are employed, how Mr Director Seipel himself is working. I would like to know whether, if he has carried out special activities in special projects and special exhibitions, he still had secondary incomes. And whether, if so, he has taxed these side-by-side incomes. By the way, how is it with your supervisory duty? – I don’t want to talk about the board’s supervisory duty anymore. This is a meeting of people who seem to hear nothing, see nothing, and if they publish texts, then it has prescribed to them the Lord's residence out, as at the birthday celebration of the Secretary of State, so that it looks as if they had fulfilled a duty of oversight there. That is why we shall put the question in question. As I have just addressed this birthday celebration, I would like to say: I don't want to imply to Secretary-General Morak that he knew how this birthday celebration will be held there at all – organisationally or financially. We already asked him in the Cultural Committee anyway. In reality, Mr. Morak, through Mr. Wohnout, sat his representative in the curatorium of the Kunsthistorisches Museum and therefore had to be informed about everything. Mr Morak is actually Your superior, because he has to coordinate you, Mrs. Minister! I just want to mention that on the verge, but I don't know how you organize yourself internally. Maybe you'll tell us later. But if the birthday celebration cost 5 736 € plus rent – and if that took place in the dome hall, the rent costs around 6 000 € – then the birthday was worth about 12 000 €! [[Abg. Lentsch: Then it was a small one!]] To do this, I have to say: That's remarkable. [[Call at the ÖVP: It wasn't a birthday celebration!]] But it is really remarkable how the board of trustees has tried to justify this. I quote the opinion of the board of trustees: “The KHM’s board of trustees sees in the evening reception for the State Secretary, who has visited the museum premises with a large number of opinion leaders, an essential means of promoting the KHM’s museum objectives.” If politics is meant for the museum objectives of cultural policy, then it is true! Quote: “These events, in which the leading representatives from art, economics and politics usually participate, represent a social event, which with a large media coverage” – and certainly, especially according to the Court of Auditors report, there was a great media coverage! – “It is connected that contributes to anchoring the KHM more strongly in the public’s consciousness.” – Yes, but not so! I quote: “A comparable advertising effort would cause a multiple cost than was spent on the celebration. Furthermore, during such events discussions are also used, among other things, to initiate sponsoring services for museum purposes.” [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Were you invited, Mr. Cap?]] If you listen to the board of trustees, I wonder why you don't have a birthday party every night, because otherwise the museum may not be able to finance itself at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Such a curatorium can only be desired by anyone who does not want to have supervision to be able to switch with the wig like a curfew, as it fits him! This is the attitude behind it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Mr Wohnout will have written the text. It's just funny that it's at the end of the day. ‘The Court’s recommendation will be followed, and such events will only be carried out in the future at the expense of third parties.’ This is completely contrary to the previous text, where one tries to justify that this type of event was one of the best and most important things one can ever imagine. Then there's something else that also describes this attitude. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] – No, Mrs Brinek! There is still something interesting to quote about the administration of officials, even in view of the fact that Mr. Seiel is constantly running around and says how tense the financial situation of the Art History Museum is. The representation tasks have increased by 50 percent in the time when revenue from the admissions of visitors has declined. – I quote: ‘The Court recommended that... the level of representation expenses should be taken into account, in particular in connection with the administration of officials, especially since such expenses are generally attributable to private life’. They just went to eat and drink as often as possible, and they let the taxpayer burn it! And they didn't even hold on to what, with who and what purpose that had! This is really a scandal! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] That's what you're defending? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They have come up with the saying of the famous turn towards moral renewal, cleanliness, drying of the swamps and what the devil still knows! If I look at what you can see here, then I have to say: Against the Kunsthistorische Museum, Sodom and Gomorrah are an air spa! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The air wasn't bad there!]] The Court of Auditors says: ‘In the future, evidence of representation expenses should be given in any case of the operational organisation and the invited group of persons.’ He didn't even write in with whom and why he went to dinner! It's only obvious what he ate. This could be read out: That's what you eat. That's what's been mentioned. That's all. [[Abg. Broukal: Why did the accountant even accept this?]] By the way, it was laborious. The Court of Auditors has noted critically that it was necessary to beg for any evidence and for any document. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Incredible!]] Look You are not so indifferent, Mrs Minister, that is your area of responsibility! I'll tell you: This will lead to serious problems for you! Because this managing director is so good, he has also been re-ordered without a public tender and without referral to the board of trustees. So the curfew line goes on into the ministry, so almost in the way: Be he even longer our k.u. k. Hofkunstmuseum Director! For example: Imperial Highness, welcome! – The fact that you and you are with the Imperial Highness also shows the attitude that seems to work with there. And because he is so good, he has also received an increase in his references from 1998 to 2002 by more than two and a half times! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonnberger.]] There is also the question of the duty to pay and Mr Seipel's income tax duty. This question is also to be answered, something which we also want to relate to in our question to the Minister for Finance. In any case, there are many supplements, such as a non-retiring supplement, which is paid 14 times a year at the end of the year, and a supplement of 20 percent of the respective annual reference, for which neither the success of the company nor the key business figures, as the Court of Auditors says. – Whenever he slept, he wishes to know how many visitors there were, whether the special exhibitions were successful, he will definitely get 20 percent more. – Be honest: Your flashing in the eyes says you'd like such a contract, too, huh? Just sit there and wait until the money grows over! That's the mind! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You don't want such a contract because you want a better one!]] This requires a curatorium that doesn't matter, and a minister who seems to cover it: Otherwise, I can't say that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonnberger.]] The question of whether he has paid wage tax and social security contributions will still be clarified. Because he is so overburdened and so successful, invent the four-eye principle, of which the other museum directors you are about to assign to a commercial director say that there is already this with them. You could also define the four-eye principle with the museum order, Mrs. Minister! However, they want to put a commercial director there who, by the way, will cost €200 000 to € 230 000 a year, but Seiel's two-and-a-half-fold income remains. He already has a director for the Museum of People's History and for the Theatre Museum. Now he lacks only an artistic kiss, which is responsible for the artistic in the museum. But then he can really walk between the two major museums without a minute's work and register what he finally has to cash. This is an inconceivable scandal, I can tell you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: This is really lowest level!]] In order to increase your concentration, I now call you the list of missing and unsubmitted documents: Documents on the approval of the additional activities or employment of the managing director could not be submitted. There were no meaningful data on the number of visitors and the delivery of special exhibitions. Documents for a closer analysis of the personal development of the individual organisational units of the KHM could not be submitted. The causes of the significant increases in staff expenditure in 1999 and 2000 could not be understood because of lack of documentation. The amount of staff expenditure on renting of KHM premises could not be announced. A report by KHM of an audit company on the amount of settlement for a partner of the "Museums Collection" (i.e. the museum shop) could not be presented. Documents on the items or goods purchased by the Museums Collection could not be presented. Further: Evidence of travel expenses and tickets could not be presented. – There he told us the shame in the “ZiB 2” that this was not possible because you can’t present any evidence in electronic ticketing. First of all, there has been this only since 2002, and second, you can of course present proof in electronic ticketing. He tells this reproach in the “ZiB 2 ”! Irresistible attitude! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Unmistakable!]] I will continue: The list of service trips of the managing director was incomplete. – He ate at tax costs, drank at tax costs, drove around at tax costs and invited people at tax costs. That's the attitude! That's your turn! This is what money is spent on the cultural sector! Evidence or other documents concerning the conversion of the sword and the damaged goods of the museum shop could not be submitted. Suitable documents on the exercise of the control right provided for in the management contract with an advisory company, the settlement of the sales commissions and the distribution of profits could not be presented. – The Ministry of Finance will be very interested in this. Original invoices over € 189 000 of a company for the opening and demolition of exhibitions could not be presented. For 1998 it was not possible to present a large amount of evidence on the reservation of the proceeds from admissions to the Lipizzan Museum. – The proofs for the entrances could not also be presented for the Lipizzan museum! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] I wonder, What else did he have about evidence or booking documents? [[Abg. Broukal: The food bills!]] The question now arises whether there is no enrichment! You really have to look at this carefully. The question of tax evasion is indeed raised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] – With the defense of Mr Seiel, I would be very careful, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, very careful! Sit still in the first row humble would really be better! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Collections: 200 000 art objects had not yet been inventoryd; the location of art objects had not been reviewed for years. – 200 000 objects are somewhere in the museum! The paintings, which are not available for rent, have been issued to foreign countries on several occasions. Eight paintings reported as loss were present in various federal offices and in the depot of the KHM. - They were found then. First, they said: They're gone already! They've lost! Then it said: Jessas, they're standing around somewhere! That's how it was organized there! The Managing Director bought two so-called tombs from the collection property which was handed over to the KHM as a loan from the federal government. – I don't want to comment on the symbolism that he bought two tombs. The fact is that the Court of Auditors' report on the Art History Museum on Management concludes: First: A comprehensive and effective economic supervision shall be carried out within the meaning of the provisions of the GmbH Act. Secondly, The management shall require concrete objectives as well as an annual report on the achievement of the objectives of the KHM. And the best – third: A remuneration should be provided for the Managing Director, which takes into account both the interests of the Managing Director and the federal government as the owner of the company. – You can't describe this more destructively! Finally, fourthly: For the recognition of a non-reliable performance-related surcharge, the company success or key business figures shall be taken into account. – So it is not just him to shudder the money! This applies to the museum as a whole, so that it – I have to say that now, unfortunately, and I am very happy to accept the call for order! – Sausstall can be financed in some way there. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Secondly, I can only say that the consequence must be: Retirement, resignation, resignation of the managing director Seipel. Mrs. Minister, if you don't, then you're ready to resign yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e13501	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e13523	Mr President. High house! Whoever heard this speech now has also heard that the first sentence of the speaker cannot have been seriously meant that the Art History Museum is a small thing. – I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: It's a little girl and not a dandelion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Those who go through Vienna with open eyes and look at what has been done in the museum area, see the enormous developments that have taken place over the past ten years, who sees everything that has been invested and well invested, and he also sees when he passes the museums on the weekend or even under the week, how many people stream in, how many people are interested in our valuable cultural goods. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: He sees mismanagement!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have... – To explain some questions beforehand: [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You refuse reality!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] The Court of Auditors shall, of course, review whether there is a criminal relevance. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: The Court of Auditors can't do that, it can only be the justice!]] The Court of Auditors has received 14 000 documents. I say just once to the illustration: It has received 14 000 documents.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e13625	Capabilities You are so kind and let the Federal Minister speak! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e13646	The Court of Auditors has received 14 000 documents, and the inventory of hundreds of thousands of art items has been carried out quickly. What was listed there were individual coin collections, in which each single coin was counted as its own object. The inventory will be carried on quickly. We passed a new museum law in 1998, together with you, after which we gave the museums more independence and a covert budget. That's why I say when it's said: In 2003 the museum has always received the highest budget! It has received just like 1998 20.1 million € and no more cents! [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: You forgot the special exhibitions!]] This common law was then gradually implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! The step from a roomalist, subordinated service to an independent, independent museum is a big step! This is a step connected with many unknown challenges, as sometimes things that were not known may appear, and this step has been done with much commitment. The Art History Museum was our pilot project for this autonomy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] And I would like to thank Mr Seipel for having the courage to do so first with the Art History Museum. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's inconceivable!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Those who read the annual cultural reports also know what was done by the Kunsthistorisches Museum: There were more than 100 special exhibitions in five years, 6.6 million visitors in total. This makes the Kunsthistorische Museum after Schönbrunn Castle and after the Tiergarten one of the most important visitors to Austria. In this period, the degree of self-covering was increased from 37.3 percent to 40.9%. That means: 12 million € a year are brought in with sponsors, with support and also with the rental of art items. This is an enormous degree of self-evidentness, which means a very good development for Austria. Five or six years after the exclusion, it is necessary to evaluate this distribution and transfer to full justice. We have commissioned an evaluation, and it was held under the direction of Professor Bernhard Graf for the Art History Museum: The prestige of the Art History Museum is exceptional and does not require any fundamental change. The Kunsthistorische Museum is a national and internationally sought-after partner. In Austria, no other museum exceeds the rank and versatility of museum life at the Art History Museum. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! After this period of change in the new terrain, an audit of the Court of Auditors was carried out between 2002 and 2003, which examined the years 1998 and 2002 - some of them from earlier onwards - and in which this difficult period of transition to a new accounting system and to completely new conditions were reviewed. The Court of Auditors has looked at everything very carefully, it has made 38 recommendations. The Court of Auditors has made 24 recommendations to the Kunsthistorisches Museum, 18 recommendations of the Court of Auditors have already been implemented after the raw report, such as improvements such as the withdrawal of the Harrach Palace, the termination of insurance for the collection objects. Further improvements were made to the documentation of service trips and representation expenses. Further recommendations are currently in implementation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Decided, I would like to say: The Court of Auditors did not encourage the resignation of the Director-General in its report. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not his job either, he can't do that!]] I would ask you to take note of this too. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Dr. Cap claims that the Court of Auditors had called for the resignation of the Director-General. I notice: The Court of Auditors has not called for this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the curatorium of the Kunsthistorische Museum there are recognized personalities such as the Constitutional Jurist University Professor Dr. Öhlinger and Mr. General Director Dkfm. Püspoek. The renowned audit firm Ernst & Young examines – we now all know – and an independent economic expert, Professor Karl Bruckner, confirms that the audit of the Court of Auditors has not shown any negligent behaviour by the Director-General. I have had everything checked in all directions – there is no negligent behaviour of the Director-General! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] All the Court of Auditors' findings have been dealt with very comprehensively in the light of the raw report. There have been reconnaissances. It has been widely and comprehensively discussed each of the findings made by the Court of Auditors. Now, I believe, we should take the opportunity, on the basis of the recommendations, to advance the development of the full-rightful museums. The following two things are very important to me: On the one hand: The Court of Auditors recommends a four-eye principle. This four-eye principle does not have to mean a second managing director immediately; I would like to make that clear. There are various ways to implement the four-eye principle. This principle is an organisational principle in the administration, which states that important decisions are not to be made by individuals. [[Abg. Broukal: Yes, we know that! You don't know!]] It is therefore necessary to ensure a clear separation between the authorising officer and the performer. Ladies and gentlemen! Many museums have already introduced this four-eye principle with a procurist. [[Abg. Broukal: Because that's normal!]] I consider it necessary and important to work together on an objective basis to advance the development of the museums and not to damage our good museums and the very excellent Art History Museum by unwarranted accusations of scandalizing attempts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we will be in the individual houses of this... – My responsibility is to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Take care of your responsibility!]] It is my responsibility to ensure that the museums go into a good future – based on their legitimacy, on their independence, which is considered to be a future-oriented whole of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! We will take a close look at this four-eye principle at all the houses in the near future. We will explain how this four-eye principle works. I have already received a report from the Technical Museum. Based on the Rules of Procedure of the Technical Museum in Vienna, money-related business cases can only be effectively justified and handled by the managing director or his representative and a attorney. That means: At least two signatures are required for each order and payment. The internal revision will be extended with a reporting obligation to the board of trustees. I also think this is important and correct for a further development that is necessary after these five years of testing. Ladies and gentlemen! Criticizing the references of the Director-General Seizel is an easy matter. I believe that we have entrusted a great deal of work with the merger with the Museum of Art and with the Theatre Museum to the Director Seipel. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: One too big!]] We have agreed together on a law whereby the Director's work should also be paid off accordingly. If you read exactly what the Court of Auditors recommends, you will see that he also recommends a task-based fee. Ladies and gentlemen! If you make comparisons with other museum directors in Europe, you have to say: The salary of the Director-General Seipel shall be at the level corresponding to the responsibility and size of the holding. I mean, it's easy to wake up an envy complex, it's easy to throw around the public with numbers. But: It has been explained very precisely and several times by the Director-General Seipel that he is, of course, liable for income tax, which income tax has also paid. I really would ask you not to continue this scandal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, I would like to oppose those who here believe that it is necessary by law to elect Mr Seipel: In the Bundesmuseen-Law 2002, § 6 para. 1 Z 3.1 are the statements on the early appointment of the managing director or managing director. I quote literally: ‘The early appointment of the managing director(s) requires an application from the board of trustees for which a majority of two thirds of the votes are required. If the board of trustees is sparse and dangerous, the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture can also act without any application.” To this end, I note the following: First: The board of trustees, to whom, as I have already mentioned, recognized personalities such as Mr. Constitutional Jurist University Professor Dr. Öhlinger and Mr. Director-General Dkfm. Mr Püspök has not submitted an application for the appointment of Director-General Seiel. [[Abg. May. Kogler: One hand washes the other!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Secondly, The Court of Auditors has not given any recommendation to the appointment of Director-General Seiel. Thirdly, The Court of Auditors has also not found that there is a risk of delay. That is why, fourthly, I am not going to convene Mr Seipel.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e13878	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. First, Mr. Dr. Kräuber spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e13906	High house! In the first place, I would like to clarify the question of ‘Kleinod versus Saustall’ because the Federal Minister has spoken about it. So the Kunsthistorische Museum is a small thing, but it is run like a stable. That's how it looks! Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Faith Are you serious about the fact that the critical public will be satisfied with these answers? Do you believe that the machinations and the painting of Mr. Seipel are now out of the world, that we can move on to the agenda? You cannot ignore the Court of Auditors' findings, refuse any consequence and prejudice orderly conditions here! Mrs. Minister! I'll tell you with school vocabulary: You didn't understand this textbook at all! [[keeping the Court of Auditors report up to date]] You have not read the Court of Auditors' lesson! And you deserve a smooth not enough! I would like to tell you this, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You'll have to sit down, of course, that's quite clear. Of course, in the Court of Auditors, we will talk about the fact that someone sells or buys a car himself and that journeys are made – and you will also support me, Mr. colleague – where there is no invoices and evidence that the principles of proper accounting and accounting are violated, that documents, documents, listings and permits are missing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonnberger]] [[Abg. Oils: difficulties in the conversion!]] And all this is supposed to be without consequences?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Or – and there will also be Mr. Neudeck, the chief discoverer of this political side –: [[towards the liberals]] What about security failures? What about the financial deficit? What about the decline in visitors? How can it be that a normal managing director's Gage explodes into a Federal Chancellor's Height and that there are also secondary activities in the dark? Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Now to the invitation of Mr Morak State Secretary for Birthday, financed with sour tax money of the population: €6 000, as you can hear, for food and drink, €6 000 for rent. That can't be! It is a chuzpe, if the Secretary of State says, once again he would not accept such an invitation. That's a terrible thing! He's supposed to pay it back! That's an open bill. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be like this: Fuck, and then beat the taxpayer for this money! That's incredible! Mr Morak, even if you are not here, I ask It's on: Figures Get this money back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs Gehrer, her present presentation reminds us of Mr Seipel's legendary television appearance. There is a devastating criticism of the Court of Auditors, and Mr Seipel says: Thank you, dear Court of Auditors, for your praise! We've already regulated some kind of kinkerlitz! No, no, that's not how it is! It is about the very big “brumbles” of public financial and conduct control, about mismanagement, waste of money and the economy of friends. Therefore, there is this SPÖ request that there should be consequences here. If you look at the areas of competence of Mrs Gehrer, you can find common ground. Take the Kunsthistorische Museum and judicial medicine here! Well, what are the commons? – You, Mrs Minister, are responsible, there are catastrophic circumstances, there are devastating Court of Auditors reports and lots of bodies in the basement. This insanity has method, Mrs. Minister: The supervisory bodies do not care about anything, the political leadership fails completely, there are internal power struggles, anyone is chief and operates in his own pocket. – This is the case with judicial medicine, and this is also true at the Kunsthistorisches Museum. Now we are still waiting for the report from the Central Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics, and, Mrs Minister, I am telling you now: This is even a terrible one when the Court of Auditors' audit is complete. And how is the handling of the Court of Auditors criticism? – It is modern to present opinions. Mr. Grasser, Minister of Finance, has started with this – the one who should be interested in a functioning financial control! – and continued, among other things, Mrs Klasnic, when it became unpleasant in the EStAG matter, but the bird shot down the rulers who just praised you, Mrs. Minister, namely the ladies and gentlemen of the board. Yeah, what do you hear from there? . There is a good opinion, and that is to say, the relevant findings of the Court of Auditors, based on critical expert assessment. So that's just what's wrong. Or: A private auditor has found: In contrast to the Court of Auditors, the full accuracy of accounting and accounting is confirmed. – Yes, good night, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who says that?]] And a member of the board of trustees said: This is the summit in the Second Republic: that the Court of Auditors report is more damaging than beneficial. Estimated speakers from the government groups, I really ask you to stop saying that now! It can't go on like this! You can't let that lead to any consequences! They also add to the Court of Auditors – that is an institution of the National Council! – an immeasurable damage! You are degrading the Court of Auditors to a salt office if you do not have any consequences! I ask you to: Voices That is what the Socialists are proposing. If you do not, ladies and gentlemen, then the critical public naturally raises the crucial question: Why is Seizel being held? How can that only be true of these facts? [[Abg. Steibl: (keeping a newspaper article in height) Take care of your things!]] I have also had to think for a long time, Mrs Steibl, but there is only one answer to this question, which means: Mr Seipel has been in the personal committee of Mr ÖVP Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel! Of course, he is sacrosan and has a license for mismanagement, waste and friend economy, and that is why you protect Mr Seipel. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] But the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is guaranteed: at the next elections, both in the countries and at the federal level!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14035	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14056	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry that the SPÖ as the opposition party is having a debate which would be quite entitled to become a high-quality debate in this House, which is absolutely unfair, namely, with false claims by the executive club here going to the speaker's desk, lifting up the Court of Auditors' report and saying: The report recommends the resignation of the Director-General of the Museum of Art, although no word is true! – No word is true! You will not find this recommendation in any line. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's very unfair! In my opinion, this is an argument with illegal means. [[Abg. Krainer: Hö, ho!]] We should not let that happen in this House! The truth looks very different. The truth shows that in the last one and a half decades, the Museum of Art has taken a not only remarkable but also excellent development and that not least, General General Seizel and his personality have made a very decisive contribution to this. [[Abg. Gaál: This is immense!]] If today Vienna has not only in the musical sector, but also in the museums sector, if in the last one and a half decades there has been a development which is really a milestone, then this is not least a merit of Director General Wilfried Seipel. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] You might say that's my personal opinion. However, this is also the opinion of the High Level Expert Commission, which has evaluated the entire museum landscape in Austria. What did he write? – The evaluation report states: “The prestige of the Art History Museum is exceptional and does not require any fundamental change. The Kunsthistorische Museum is a national and internationally sought-after partner. In Austria, no other museum surpasses the rank and versatility of museum life at the Kunsthistorisches Museum.” – Quote. It's true that something actually happened, and if you've been following the development a little bit, you could see it. I can remember exactly that there was a discussion at the time when Busek brought Seizel in 1990 – for ideological reasons! Oh, yes! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Because Seipel never liked the left art schickeria in Austria! He never heard of that! There has been this discussion from the very beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is the truth!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness as well as intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you like to age over. The statement made by my colleague Herb should indicate what the real reason for this is. – Yes, he also declares himself! He finally declared himself for the Federal Chancellor. You don't like that, and that's a reason for you to make a man and an institution bad with unfair means. [[Abg. May. Lapp: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] That's not where we're going to look! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that since the beginning of the 1990s, Director-General Seipel has started with new exhibition concepts, with new management concepts, with new financial concepts, by establishing shops by sponsoring, that he was the first to have a museum of this scale with such an additional private effort, that he can run a museum where the basic equipment and the basic contribution of the state have remained the same since 1998, and he nevertheless managed to ensure that there was no departure or at least a balanced budget at that time. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Sponsoring for Morak!]] [[Abg. Gaál: Heavyest Abuse!]] He even made a surplus two years ago and is now only because of the fact that a project that is already expected for the next year has been preferred, with € 2 million in the minus. But he has an absolutely positive balance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can only tell you: Seizel has succeeded in making this house at the ring one of the world's leading houses, including in the operation. A few years ago, I myself had the opportunity to make an evening or experience the guided tours on the occasion of a large international conference there. This is so professionally organized: It was a pleasure to see how 700 high-ranking people were led through the museum there, as it was able to do within a few hours, without the groups having crossed, to guide so many people through the house at the same time and also to hold events that brought additional profits. [[Abg. Broukal: This is very easy in this museum!]] That was simple and just great! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I have a request: Stop the seiler hat! They are very close to the border to organize a Hatz, a personal Hatz here. He did not deserve this because he made a very important contribution to the fact that the museum landscape in Vienna has developed so well. If we have a competition between the big houses today, between the Art History Museum, the Albertina, the Liechtenstein Museum and other museums, this is not least due to the fact that he created a new model here. He is the first to really transfer this house from a secondary service to a private-sector firm and lead this house well. Of course, there is criticism from the Court of Auditors, which is not to dispute, but what I think is particularly positive is that it is not just this criticism, but that it has already taken up a large part of the criticism points and made recommendations positively on the basis of the raw report. I also think it is positive that Mrs. Minister has responded. Yes, it is true, of course, he is a man who does great things in the field of research, he is really also a leader in museums throughout Europe, in terms of restoration, and in other research projects. He is one who conducts the museum for example and who organizes the exhibitions himself. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Successful!]] That this man is not at the same time the best bookkeeper, I ask for a certain understanding. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe it is absolutely right that Mrs. Minister intends to present him with a commercial director – probably – or something similar. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A caretaker! A controller!]] I think that is another improvement in this landscape. This will result in the Kunsthistorische Museum not only being the miniature of the Austrian museum landscape, but also in this list, which includes the Louvre, the Prado, the Pinakothek or the Metropolitan Museum, being able to join seamlessly and not only make a decisive contribution to tourism and art life in Austria, but also overall to Austria's reputation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Do not harm the reputation of Austria with your way of doing so and do not damage the reputation of a person who has made a great deal of money around the art scene in Austria! [[Abg. Broukal: Seizel and Austria, that's a bit far from here!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14304	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14326	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I really don't want to hide or hide anything here or even impoverished, but especially in the case of the Kunsthistorisches Museum and Director General Seiels I keep it – no, not with the incense! – with Shakespeare’s quote: [[Abg. Oils: But?]] [[Abg. Oillinger makes a gesture of consecration]] “Take everything in everything!” [[Abg. Dr. Cap: “Be or not!”]] And there I am – after watching S’! [[Abg. Broukal: He did that!]] – strangely one with the chief critic Worm, who wrote: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] ‘Snow and the whole’. That's what Worm, of which you really can't say he's not illuminating scandals, says: The Kunsthistorisches Museum under Seiel's leadership has produced sensational exhibitions that were praised worldwide, and they count more than incomplete evidence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Worm also says – not me! –: There is no company around the world in which the evidence documentation is complete in subsequent years. The fact is that no painting was detected and the art-historical museum was given the full confirmation note. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – As far as editor-in-chief Worm, and he is, as I said, nobody passing a scandal. However, Mrs Minister, as generous as Mr Worm's dealings with Seipel, I am not really. We cannot, as political representatives, be so uncritical either. For even with the greatest goodwill to Mr Seipel, after studying the Court of Auditors' report, it must be said that much has been presented, what really is not going on, what is going on, and that abuses have been found that are simply not allowed to happen. Mrs. Minister, you mentioned several times that the Art History Museum was the first operation to be transferred to private law. That is all right, and certainly there have been huge difficulties with it. But you still have to keep a proper accounting. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, you have to pay off your travels properly. Nevertheless, a salary increase – still around two and a half times – must also be properly cancelled. [[Abg. Oillinger: Selling the car!]] Everything does not help, nor does pioneering in the field of private law. [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the Greens, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] There have been mistakes that must not be illuminated. Evidence must be complete in all cases, everyone who has once had something to do with the financial office knows about the wage tax or whatever. There is simply nothing to beautify, and this is something to be said to Mr Seipel. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's sad!]] Yeah, that's an emotional thing. I'm trying to treat the whole thing very rationally. Of course, on the other hand, the great importance of the Museum of Art and also the great achievement of the Director-General Seiel, who has already emphasized Mr Fassleven in a very touching way here. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have to say – there is nothing to discuss about it – the Art History Museum has become a museum of world fame under Seipel, with great exhibitions! [[Abg. Oils: No people's cult!]] That must also recognize the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: No, they don't want that!]] One thing I really know from my own experience, because Mr President-in-Office Seipel has introduced me to a sponsor. This is unlikely, since 10 million Austrian schillings were flown into the collection of old musical instruments by an American sponsor at the time. It must be brought together once that such sponsors are being driven! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think three or five Stradivaris have come to Austria and stay here. This achievement must be recognized, and that is why I said: “Take everything in everything!” – on the one hand obviously his lack of accuracy in the evidence, but on the other hand his great artistic openness, gift and so on. He has made the Kunsthistorische Museum from a place of storage really very valuable paintings to a flowering and interesting museum location. [[Abg. Oils: And what about the Saliera? With the storage?]] That's why people come to Austria. People don't come to Austria to look at the collection of evidence – that must be clear to us – but they come to Austria to look at the exhibitions. [[Cheerfulness with the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Call the SPÖ:Always less!]] That is why this artistic site, as I said, should not be forgotten either. I also think that because of these artistic qualities one should not yell at this moment: ‘Revocations! Get the hell out of here! As Mr Cap did, we give him an opportunity to continue working under increased control. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Since control has already been said: You see, I am part of your opinion, because the control has not worked, ladies and gentlemen, dear. I am really surprised – Mrs Minister, I think you have an opinion with me – that there are loud honourable gentlemen sitting in there – there are loud gentlemen sitting in there, there is not a single woman inside – but they are obviously not much to understand from control or from the economy. The chairman is Dr. Püsböck. He's from the Raiffeisenkass, and you should assume that he understands something about the economy. [[Abg. Broukal: That he knows what a witness is!]] But obviously the control of him has passed. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does he know about the insurance, the insurance of the Saliera?]] Mrs Minister, I have to ask myself: Why does a representative of the Raiffeisenbank sit in this board of trustees if he does not carry out his duties properly? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Furthermore, a member of the court, hunting and armaments chamber sits inside. I wonder if the person understands a lot of evidence and accounts and the management, too. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Saliera insurance!]] Therefore, one would have to see whether the board of trustees would not have to be put together better in order to come to a really effective control. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: This is part of the change!]] Interestingly, Mr Püsböck says about the Raiffeisenbank – be careful, Mr Deputies! –: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Insurance! Uniqa!]] “We are concerned that such tests cause more damage than benefits.” I'm surprised at a control body. Instead of a control organ knocking to the chest and saying: Jessas, what happened to us? We haven't checked enough!, he's more or less excited about the fact that mistakes have been discovered. As I said, there is an urgent need for action, and something has to happen, Mrs Minister, because otherwise you will probably be plagued without interruption by Parliament's accusations if something does not happen at last. Minister! Generally speaking, we have already observed that when the “hare” has been borrowed from Albertina, some directors consider their museum as if it were their property with which they can operate fully. Mr President-in-Office Seiel increases his salary by two and a half times, while the other lends a “hare” even though this was strictly prohibited. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Wrong hare!]] It can't be that way. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Works have also been awarded by the Kunsthistorisches Museum abroad, although the restoration workshop of the Art History Museum's painting gallery has said: These images cannot be awarded as a loan because they are either too fragile or because they are too valuable or because they have just been excluded from any refusal because of their meaning. There is even a 1971 directive for this purpose. Unfortunately, God’s art-historical museum and its control board have gone beyond this directive. It just can't happen! [[Congratulations on the liberals, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is therefore an urgent need for action. Mrs Minister, you have said that 10 points of the Court of Auditors' 18 criticisms have already been met. I am convinced that it is necessary to meet all the points and, if necessary, to make the four-eye principle even a six-eye principle and to put Mr Seipel under very strong economic control. This control would also have to extend to other museums, such as the Albertina, because of the loans and so on. Then, Mrs Minister, you will find a satisfied Parliament that is also proud of your museums.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14649	As the next speaker, Mr Zinggl. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14670	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Sometimes I yearn for another discussion and for another cultural policy in the house, for example, for the discussion of the side-by-side of different cultures of people in the country, or for cultural initiatives that may sometimes be in the shadow and do not appear in the media and representative public. [[Call the ÖVP: We too!]] But no, we have this Dr. Seizel again and again! Unfortunately, we have to go through this because as long as there is this idea of culture in this country, which actually uses the cultural heritage to enrich itself in order to operate in Saus and Braus and to disregard the laws, we will keep this issue here and talk about it again and again. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What does “enrich ” mean? Who's enriching?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who are you accusing?]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] For this case of Seipel has now indeed crystallized itself into a symbol for the economy of friends, for abuse of power and possibilities in art and culture. You can practically speak of some kind of seiel-misbusiness, if you mean it, in the culture of others. In some press talks I have heard the question over and over again in the last few days: What is the most important point of criticism? Where are the critical fields that are particularly tragic? Where are the worst disregards of the law? – Well, this question is simply not to answer. It's a mudfield, a swamp, and in a swamp you don't ask: Where is the place where you can sink? Hit You simply put some of the pages in this Court of Auditors report on, and you will find two or three things that are the worst. There's even a lack of things. For example, the disappearance, the robbery of the “Saliera”, is missing because this disappearance did not occur in 2002, which the Court of Auditors examined, but only in 2003. Mrs Minister, I wonder why the insurance does not collect the compensation. The “Saliera” was insured, and this insurance was paid, for which a lot of money has already been spent. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Under-insurance!]] But now this insurance is not actually recovered from the damage, it is not required that the damage be replaced. If the interest that we, the State, the Republic, are to escape through it alone, then that is a million. With this million amount, Mrs. Minister, you could enter the Art History Museum free of charge, just like a fund. Every year the interest rates of these 30 million or 40 million – depending on how much you get for it – are suitable for making free entry into the museum. In the last few days I have learned something else, namely that in the museum shop this replica of the Saliera – I have it here – is no longer sold, simply because Director Seipel believes that this reminds visitors too much that something has gone wrong. [[the speaker shall deposit the mentioned replica on the speaker's desk.]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] I say that the museum shop misses an annual sum of € 100 000. 1 000 people buy this at €150, or we say it's only 80 people, as the museum shop escapes €100 000. I ask you, Mrs Minister: Is it not somehow a strange thing to do? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, in the meantime, your opinion has become a stereotyped bunch of excuses, which the director wanted to turn to the Court of Auditors, but has not been very successful. It seems that everything is still superb for you, the museum is one a set up, and only the criticism makes everything broken. However, there is criticism of all media in Austria. If you look away from Mr Worm – that was the only statement that Seibel defended – you can say that the entire Austrian media landscape criticizes the behavior of Dr. Seipel and also yours in this context. If one learns from your ranks – I call your predecessor, Dr. Busek, who writes this in the press – that the museum policy has finally led to a year market of vanity and that the exclusion has failed completely, then I really wonder what this means that you stand here and still defend a museum policy that no one believes in. The only thing we can imagine is that you also want to celebrate a birthday party there and that Dr. Seizel will invite you soon. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: International model, Mr. Colleague!]] You, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, will not get this chance anymore, you were already too critical. But I think there are still a few men and women from the ÖVP who want to enjoy it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But because this criticism is coming from the Court of Auditors, you have now set up a final line of defence, and that is the board of trustees. This curatorium is already a very strange instrument, because instead of having checked and controlled it itself, being careful and then suffering the corresponding consequences, it is now beginning to defend this economy and this policy of Dr. Seipel. That means that this board of trustees has obviously been set up precisely for this purpose. It was set up to defend the director, if something went wrong, otherwise it would have to have been working for a long time. You yourself cited the law that the board of trustees can replace the director with a two-thirds majority, and I believe that this should have happened long ago. You also say, Mrs Minister, that now most of it has been repaired. I wonder, Is the Dr. Seipel's car still in the museum's court – the Court of Auditors proposes that consequences be drawn there – yes or no? – He's still standing inside, that is, he's still driving with it. The administrative director also has a car that has been criticized by the Court of Auditors, and the car is still inside. The Court of Auditors also criticises the Ministry in relation to salary, and you say: task-based. But that is not true, it is not within it, but the Court of Auditors recommends that a remuneration be provided for the managing director, taking into account not only his interests but above all the interests of the federal government. This means in good German that Director Seiel has received too much money and should not get so much money in the future. I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: Will you take this advice from the Court of Auditors, yes or no? It is always opposed to criticism that no enrichment took place there. Of course, enrichment has taken place! But not just that, there's just a missing amount. There are, for example, €38 000 not shown, which are outside the wallet, and there is no evidence for that, and there is no reason for that. Then there is €276,000, which will be paid in cash without a contractual necessity. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Checkouts!]] With one word, these are ongoing machinations that indicate to us that there is worst management. If you're talking about an excellent museum director, let's really look at that. We can also question this quality. Let's take a look at what happened this year at exhibitions. Three exhibitions are: Rubens, these are the own stocks that are shown there; then we have Canaletto... – What do I mean, I have to be careful? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Well they were, the exhibitions! You have to admit that!]] I'll tell you what's the matter. [[Abg. Scheibner: “Good they were, ” she said!]] – Then we still have the Habsburg property, including our own stocks. With full pants, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, you can easily smell. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Good they were!]] The Kunsthistorische Museum receives €30 million: from the federal government, €20 million, 10 million in own resources. With these 30 million, three exhibitions are being made – and for this we should still slip on our knees and thank ourselves? The whole mismanagement is not included at all! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger:... I don't know!]] Even this consideration that chips fall where hustle and bustle is a little suspicious. If one assumes that success can only be achieved if laws are broken, then I get really weird. If the success of the exhibition is, so to speak, the first premise, no matter how it comes about, then I must say that there is thanks to God still laws that protect and protect us from it. One of these laws, Mrs. Minister, provides for the redundancies of the Director when danger is in default. You said that yourself. And there is a danger of delay, and I ask you, Mrs Minister, to comply with this law, too. This is very urgent, and I hope that it will happen soon. Otherwise, we will continue to push for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14872	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14894	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I think we really have to bear in mind that all the criticism that comes from the Court of Auditors is almost just the tip of the iceberg. Mr Zinggl has already mentioned this: The current report, which deals only with the period by 2002, does not mention the theft of the Saliera. It is also not a question of becoming aware of the serious security failures that have been criticised before, of the questionable positioning and, above all, extended standing of an unsecured structure, of ignoring the many false alarms and of shutting down the video surveillance – because it was dark, one has just turned off. There is no mention of Seiel's private Sherlock Holmes rides to beautiful Italy, and there is no mention of all the further management failures of the KHM director. Of all these points, nothing is to be read in the current Court of Auditors report, because these points will only be examined at the next one. As a private man, Mr Seipel will probably be on vacation in Italy for a long time, and this report of the Court of Auditors no longer needs to be put to a stand. I would like to highlight some of the criticisms of the current Court of Auditors report. There are so many that you really don't know where to start. For example, because you mention this over and over again, the report makes clear that the KHM has not been awakened from the sleep of the thorns, because the numbers of visitors have declined dramatically. They always emphasize how great everything is, but it's not like this: The number of visitors dropped by 26 percent from 1998 to 2003, so really a lot. Ladies and gentlemen! I certainly don't tell you anything new, if I say that the number of visitors continued to decline in 2004. I do not want to abstain from further details from the Court of Auditors' report because it gives a very special light to Director Seiel as the head of a large institution. It seems that Director Seipel can better deal with his friends from politics than with his own employees, because the Court of Auditors report also highlights the operating climate in the Kunsthistorisches Museum. In 2002, €8 000 was spent on a seemingly unsuccessful and broken mediation. We hear that it's not that funny to work in the Art History Museum, unless you're the director, then of course you are. Clearly, the interests of the Director and of the staff members were: workers so different that they had to get professional help from outside. But the whole thing was broken down – unsuccessful, as already said. Director Seipel, because this is also criticised, has only informed the Court of Auditors that he would perhaps travel to Italy to improve the climate with the employees. It's not surprising that it is because he disregards his local experts. The conferences of the scientific staff, the research conferences, the director conferences and museum conferences provided for in the museum's regulations have hardly been held at all. That is, he obviously does not care to meet with his employees. Amazement also activates the following part of the Court of Auditors' report and appears to be highly informative: You know that the KHM receives a significant basic fee, which was also increased by a lot from 2000 to 2001. At the same time, and by the way – as almost as “carrier money” – there have been no inconspicuous means for special exhibitions made available by your ministry, Mrs. Minister. And these funds, which, by the way, cannot be found in the budget estimate, flow to their own account. That's interesting once. It should also be noted that these funds, including a criticism from the Court of Auditors, have not been properly settled. That's, I think, more than a highly unprofessional management. This is a highly opaque form of management. The criticism points do not tear off. In the Court of Auditors it was said that the objectives were not achieved. This is no wonder, because the goals are not defined either! Mrs. Minister! We have always asked you very clearly that there is a museum concept and not just an evaluation as it has now taken place. A little hp: The only defined goal, namely to increase the number of visitors, was by no means achieved – on the contrary. I think your foreign exchange is: Eyes to and through. But that can't be it. I think there is something like moral and political responsibility. Mrs Minister, it's high time: Follow your responsibilities and get Director Seipel to meet you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14958	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e14979	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, scandalisation with which you are doing, Mr Cap, and with which this request is put, is really inconceivable. [[Abg. Painter:... Ignorance!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Is still outnumbered by reality!]] It is impossible for me that you want to make cultural policy with “healthy house mind”, Mr Faul! And inconceivable to me are the criminalization, the precepts and the polemics of the colleagues herbs! Mr Zinggl makes creative suggestions on how, for example, the sale of the Saliera en miniature could make more money, speaks all the time of mismanagement and again mismanagement and thinks that if you say it long enough, it will still be pickling. [[Abg. Oils: You didn't watch!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You didn't care at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this request is based on what you have been making on all kinds of accusations for months. He advocates things from which some of the consequences have already been drawn or which have already been corrected, but you do not want to hear that. You don't listen to that at all. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Court of Auditors raised allegations, Mrs Wolfmayr!]] The consequences already realized are the absence of the Palais Harrach site, presentation of measures to reduce expenditure, termination of insurance for the collection items and so on. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Court of Auditors raises allegations, not we! Don't you know the instrument?]] You don't listen to him at all, because you want to insist on it. They want to derive from this Court of Auditors report a clear and destructive judgment against the Director, against the Board of Directors and against the Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Have you read this?]] - Yes, of course. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What are you talking about?]] That is why we are saying a clear and loud no on this request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's a No in the very clear sense of the fact that the Court of Auditors' recommendations are important and serious, and that they are naturally to be followed. The Minister has already mentioned it, I repeat it: 18 of 24 recommendations to the Kunsthistorische Museum have been implemented so far, four are currently in implementation, and there are conflicting interpretations on two points. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's a nonsense!]] There are divergent interpretations by the Court of Auditors and the Board of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: There are at least 200 recommendations!]] – I can say that now, right? For example, there may well be proper accounting and accounting. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where?]] There are legal opinions. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where?]] – They are there for God’s sake! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Isn't everything right!]] You don't need to pretend I'm inventing that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There are regular strategy and annual reports and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where are they?]] Some recommendations have already been met, and measures have been taken. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not true either!]] We have a second managing director and so on. That's gonna make things right. That's how you deal with it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No! That's not true!]] We have to do it with a museum director who has a lot of merit, and they are constantly maiming you. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where? Which one?]] These great merits are to be booked in his favor. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Say a merit!]] He has our art-historical museum with entrepreneurial thinking at a time when one has been extended into justice – they say disaster and once jewel! – brought this “jewel” to such an extent that we now have five places in the international ranking at the international museums. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Bring together a shmarr’n!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A disaster!]] We're so great, and that's thanks to him! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Saustall! Catastrophe!]] I went to museums from childhood. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Me too!]] I know international museums. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's why I know!]] – Right, then you need to know what it looked like before the era Seiel and then at the Art History Museum. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Desaster ranking: 1. Let's go!]] If you compare this, you know exactly what you're talking about. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A tragedy!]] I really want to appeal to you as a human being, which I consider to be artistic and culturally friendly, that you are also fair and accept, there is now a gifted museum director. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] He's not the top accountant, he doesn't have to be. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's all laughing!]] He's a designer, and he brought something together. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: At tax-paying costs!]] We can now be proud of our federal museums, a wonderful art-historic museum, a museum district that is alive and is accepted by people from all over the world, which is enthusiastically accepted by the Austrians and the Austrians by people from all over the world. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Irresistible refusal of reality!]] - You know that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where are the missing evidence? Where are the missing art treasures? Where are the missing paintings?]] I'm really asking you: What's the weight and what's more? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: There will soon be nothing more in the museum than the seizel!]] So for me, who have a great relationship and as an artist also a personal relation to art and culture, a wonderful cultural performance is more important than letters, numbers and so on, and it has been done with the Art History Museum. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where are the visitors?]] The standard and the image are high, and the visitors are there. [[Abg. Hornek: How often was the cap already there?]] We could count there now and talk about it in detail, but the visitors are there. Visitor fluctuations from year to year are certainly something of course. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I would sell the bookstore the perceptive report! It's a bestseller!]] We have an art-historical museum that can be shown, and if you have helped this museum to the standard and the image, you must, I believe, be very well-respected as an exhilarator and as an engine, and you must do so with respect and respect. – I just want to ask for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e15485	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e15506	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If one has listened to the previous debate, one can say: That is, on the one hand, a scandalization and execution on the part of SPÖ, with preconceptions. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: FPÖ and BZÖ are similar to the Art History Museum!]] – I did not celebrate my birthday at the Art History Museum, colleague Cap, nor was I invited there, except as a paying guest. [[Call the SPÖ: Watch out!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You are an expert!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Do you also lack evidence as a cashier of the FPÖ?]] But I would think about whether you might be most disturbed by the Director-General Seipel that he's not part of the left-wing cultural sickeria. Maybe that's bothering you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If the Schröder borrows the rabbit without allowing it, then there is no discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Muttonen: But you didn't listen to that!]] That was very quiet and very tame. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] – There has been no withdrawal claim from you. Then speak, you have a little time left. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I suggested it! The Minister of the Interior, together with the two, is leaving the stage!]] - Well, good. This is again a creative proposal from you, but in no way can it be found objectively. On the one hand, it is about scandalization and execution, because it is not left and not red enough. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: This is not a scandal!]] On the other hand, in the speech of Mr Fassleven, I did not know whether it was about a Laudatio to a religious award or whether perhaps there would have been a little more criticism there or there. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A self-scandalization!]] [[Abg. Dr. Muttonen: The Court of Auditors!]] The truth lies in the middle like much. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Partik-Pablé said so well: It is certainly not the demonstration collection and the good accounting that people want to look at, but it is the presentation and the art to be taught here, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Of course, a museum also lives by its director. That, ladies and gentlemen, one should change and not speak cutely, but do not put something into the room, which may not be the big problem. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do you want over 5 percent or not?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the evaluation of the museums, the Kunsthistorische Museum is positively represented. [[Abg. Dr. Muttonen: With visitors retreats!]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger:...reason! You won't succeed!]] Mrs Colleagues, we are now saying that this museum is undisputed at international level. This has not been disputed by you in the Committee on Culture. You just want to scandalize. You cannot wait for us to discuss this Court of Auditors report in the Court of Auditors Committee. No, we need to “train ” Seizel now. [[Abg. Dr. Muttonen: That's your word! We don't!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] If you are working creatively there and bringing something in, something will come out, Mr President. They now want to execute and scandalize. You won't get us to do that. [[Abg. Dr. One:... cover!]] - We don't want to cover! They are now blaming the Minister for Women that danger is in delay and demanding that, due to the danger of delay, she is now convening the Seize. If, ladies and gentlemen, most of the errors that have been reported by the Court of Auditors have already been done and the demands have been met, then there can be no danger of delay, for that has already happened. [[Abg. Dr. Muttonen: You're having a hard time, yellow, with so much criticism?- Oh, my God!]] However, I would like to defend myself against one thing, Mrs Minister, against the four-eye principle. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Because you have no evidence to look at!]] If we now say that we are taking a business manager or a financial director in this museum who is also causing costs of probably €150 000, € 200 000, € 250 000, then only part of it can go from the Gage of the Director-General Seizel to fulfil this four-eye principle. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Four eyes don't look at any evidence!]] Or, one considers a similar solution to the Bundestheater-Holding, that a management and financial department is discussed through several museums, which gives the museums support – that is, assistance – in management issues, marketing issues, but also, of course, with regard to the entire financial event. The budget would be sprung up for each museum to set up an artistic director and, on the other hand, a manager or financial manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e15810	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e15834	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Court of Auditors report is available. They have always pointed out that the so-called raw report should not be used for any assessment and comparisons with court proceedings have been made. What is always called a raw report – in fact the first test result – is generally not something. It was already clear a lot at the time, and we had said that too. A committee of inquiry was set up with this so-called raw material report, for good reasons, namely because there were allegations which were no longer depreciable by an area or by a counter-examination of the KHM and the managing director Seipel or even your ministry. What is the logical consequence? – I have rarely seen a comparison of the first test result and the - in this case - perception report to the National Council so many equal coverage bodies. He's almost equal in length. It was almost nothing taken back, and that was no wonder either. Why? – Because the Court of Auditors has already found – and it has remained literally – that indeed – one can, a little rationally expressed, almost say – the proof material has been missed in a mischievous manner. - Scratch-like! Despite several months of repeated demands and demands from the Court of Auditors, nothing has been submitted. When everything was too late, the director or managing director Seipel said: Now I'm gonna bring it! Then he came with discs full of evidence on these questions that were not orderable. [[Abg. Amon:... discscrews! Who exactly?]] [[Abg. Hornek: Do you know your sweaters?]] - Yes, because I inquired. You should not be surprised that I have a particularly useful contact with the Court of Auditors. It is all inconvenient in principle, and that is why it has come so far that the report of perception, which is now available here, still exceeds the so-called raw report. This is really a rare process, and you will not be able to overtone it here with your “washing agent” speeches. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] ‘Washing media’ is a clear political expression: If one joins a brigade of whitewashers, then one will have to fall into the accusation of the detergent speech. Whoever is the whitewasher's brigade, has also been discussed publicly. [[Abg. Großruck: And the Kogler is then the “white giant” – or what?]] Listen to me before you create the wrong four-liner! It's about the curatorium itself. Let's just leave Seizel, a lot has already been said about him. But it is remarkable and concerns the state of the Republic or, in this case, unfortunately also your ministry, that control bodies do everything, just do not control it, for otherwise this state would be completely unthinkable there. At the curatorium it is, please, not a flower dealer's event, which at any birthday party still a little bit more like cheerleaders for the beautiful society, which is obviously regularly invited there. That is not the way it should be, nor is it in the law, as we have rightly suspected. Of course, they also have, not quite, but in parts comparable, a control function such as the supervisory boards in undertakings or similar supervisory bodies. What did they do? - Obviously nothing. The confusion even goes so far as Mrs Partik-Pablé believes, for example, that Mr Püspök is the chairman of the board of trustees. [[Abg. Partik-Pablé: Finally yes!]] But it's not him. [[Abg. Partik-Pablé: Formal is it who else!]] The former head of section Wran is the chairman! The board carried out the following actions: When the patch was, as it were, inevitable, they said: We cannot leave the board of trustees to the public, because he came first from the ministry and at all, and instead we take the one who can best talk! This was obviously Mr Püspök, his sign Director of the Raiffeisenlandesbank Vienna-Nederösterreich. At least one would like to think that this is understood by a few economic processes. [[Abg. Großruck: More like you!]] But he taught us a better one: Mr Püspök, together with all the others of this board of trustees, has explained, or they have – in advance, two days before the report was sent to the House at all; I am now setting up only a small side window – constantly sending out broadcasts – I do not know who got it from you – in which the Court of Auditors report has been spoken against. We are going to do this separately, what a strange state this is: that before that of those who are controlled, something will be sent to the Members of the House again with apologies, quotations from the Court of Auditors' report, and that is not true then. The condition is absurd, you can say, if you look at it more closely! So, what are the gentlemen – these are really just gentlemen – doing in the board of trustees? - They're trying to disprove it. Mr Püspök even makes a press conference and explains to the journalists: You know, it's like this: This was all in the age of disseminations and the reorganisations – it was currently ice hockey World Championship, probably he was somehow badly impressed – and that is how if you turned an ice hockey team into a football team overnight. Literally! And then you can't be surprised, so Püspoek – obviously the one who's supposed to understand most of the business there – is that then not a loud Ronaldos come out the next day. If this is the comparison and it is the striking idea of the Republic's dissemination practice, where these exclusions are supposed to bring so much efficiency and what else, and which is to be an important representative of the supervisory body created by the dissemination and which should accompany these operations, I really say: Good night, then good night! There's no way Ronaldos can get out of there. This is a quality ID for a supervisory body! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now I'm going to tell you something about the Court of Auditors. One can discuss whether and when the appointment request is justified or not. For me, he was already with the so-called raw report. I have reason to reason that things were not reversible. Let us look at that in the Court of Auditors. I'm excited! Tonight we will have the meeting – I have the load list here – to which all members of the board will be invited. Of course, Seizel will also be heard, but that will not be so much the point at all. The point will be: What did this board of trustees do? In addition to the fact that Grasser's bond, it is obvious that, in order to disprove the Court of Auditors' criticism, it is again agreed with public funds. It's always been a little more incredible every day in series. In fact, at least half the board of trustees is with her, Mrs. Federal Minister, and you know exactly that you are responsible for at least half the board of trustees! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Finally, a whole chain of failures has played a role here, and unfortunately this cascade of responsibility begins in your home. But we are also accustomed to other responsibilities there. Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e15970	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e15991	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! The Court of Auditors report speaks of a moral image. In my opinion, it is the moral image of a feudal rule and the omnipotence of a director about his museum, as it was also mentioned here in the harmonizing attempts by the ÖVP and FPÖ delegates, as if it were his art treasures, as if it were the art treasures of Mr Seiel or the woman minister. Ladies and gentlemen! The art treasures have existed for many decades and centuries. The Kunsthistorische Museum has been an important museum for a century and has not only become a micro-thousand by Mr. Seipel. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] How does this feudal rule look? – The director receives a salary of € 230 000 and receives a grant of €80 for Christmas, because he is such a poor person and a world-famous museum director, he needs a grant that everyone gets. I think that sometime a director should end with € 230 000. It carries out secondary activities which are not approved. Any civil servant must be approved, not by Mr Seipel. He sits in the ORF in the audience council, he's sitting in the university council – man must have a 48-hour day. He calculates travel bills more or less as it fits him. There is no evidence et cetera. Representation expenditure has increased. [[Abg. Hornek: The revenue, too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with this report by the Court of Auditors, we must thank the examiners very much for their patience, because the answers that have been given by the Art History Museum are indisputable in their puzzlingness. On page 14, for example, you can read what the Art History Museum finds: In many cases, the Court of Auditors has also called for the creation and evaluation of data by the KHM, which is unusual. – So the one who is examined, the museum, tells the Court of Auditors how to work. That's the attitude in this museum! Another quote: It is very important for the Art History Museum to meet the requirements of the Strategy Report. One point – which is also stated in the Court’s report – is formulated by the Art History Museum: Contact care and flexible handling of sponsors. – I really think this is a very interesting presentation. Flexible handling of sponsors means that one can be invited, one invites, and all this at the expense of taxpayers who are hard to create, for these art treasures and for what Mr. Director Sepel has in this museum. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Kunsthistorische Museum also emphasizes that the pioneering role of KHM as a flagship of culture plays an important role in the international museum landscape. Absence in this area should be regarded as backward provincialism. – What does that mean? Anyone who makes a judgment, everyone who points out how it has to work properly, is threatened with the provincial culprit. Colleagues from the ÖVP have also already taken part and have claimed that Seipel is only criticized because he does not belong to the left-left cultural sickeria. This is really an outrage that you feel here, because it's about commercial behaviour, it's about things that you have to do properly, which every sausage owner creates. Only Director Seipel can't do it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Exactly!]] Who has evidence? Where'd the evidence stay? The work of the Court of Auditors was boycotted, stopped, left. There have been questions left open. The responsibility lies with the board of trustees, the director and the minister. Mrs Minister, when you spoke for Mr Seiel today, I have already noticed: It's hard for you, and you're making it hard. I understand. Now you are finally taking on responsibility and you are calling Mr Seiel and the board of trustees, because commercial sluggishness must not remain without sanctions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16062	The next item is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16083	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I like to go to museums, I like to go to the Art History Museum, but do not meet – so until now – those who are so worried about this museum today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Were you also invited to a birthday party?]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You may also be invited!]] Museums were a bridge to my home in the twelve years of my tour life, a comparison of our collections with the exhibition objects in the rest of Europe and later also in the United States. The museums in the former Soviet Union, the Tretjakov Gallery, the Pushkin Museum in Moscow, the Hermitage in St. Petersburg, have helped me in the 1960s to bridge the isolation of a troop coming from the West under the Communist regime. Paintings of Rembrandt, Raffael and at the top, on the third floor in the Hermitage of Picasso, the Rosa Period, which were simply beautiful to look at and have done well, were quite international. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: And where is the connection with the Court of Auditors report?]] And the comparison with abroad makes me sure to do so today regarding the importance of the Austrian museum landscape – and this is high. The Kunsthistorisches Museum is attested by an international evaluation commission that it has been a pioneer in the development of museums. And Prof. Dr. Bernhard Graf, who was the head of the Commission – and now I say it for the third time because it is true – has determined: The prestige of the KHM is exceptional and does not require any fundamental change. The Kunsthistorische Museum is a national and internationally sought-after partner. – Therefore, there were also those exhibitions that I will address later. He also said: In Austria, no other museum exceeds the rank and versatility of museum life at KHM. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: That's not the point!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where are the evidence?]] The fact is that the Kunsthistorische Museum was the first museum under the Federal Museums in 1999 to implement full justice, and that was successful: 101 special exhibitions were shown in the five years, and 6.6 million visitors have seen them. The level of self-covering in 2001 was 37.3 percent, and in 2004 it rose to 40.9%. This means that now, in addition to the basic fee – and it has remained the same in the years – with about €20 million per year, €12 million will be generated per year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These financial resources benefit from the research contract. 100 scientific works, which are gladly consulted by foreign institutions, bear witness to this. In recent years, director Seipel and the directors of the other museums in Austria have managed to make a museum visit something exciting and surprising, a joy. And the comparison with abroad makes us really sure: The inflow of international guests increases annually. The KHM stands after Schönbrunn Castle with the Tierpark in the second place of interest. But also the number of Austrians who go to the museum is true. 14 percent of these are regular visitors who visit the museum 10 to 12 times a year. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where are the evidence?]] I remember many of the special exhibitions. Of course, a sensation was “Eros and Myth” with 416,000 visitors, but also “Golden from the Kremlin”, “The World of Maya”, Albrecht Dürer, Tintoretto, then Breughel with 354,000 visitors, “Golden of the Pharaohs” with 318,000 visitors speak for themselves. This does not come about, otherwise some farms that have gone through the pleite would not have stood up that way. This awareness of the benefits of this world-renowned museum, the knowledge of the good work that has been done here, should also delight us from time to time – including you, from the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No evidence!]] Of course, criticism is necessary. Improvements through criticism are always possible, we know this from our own lives, but if we ignore the success balance and thus deny it is not the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16231	Next item is the report by Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16252	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, the museum is not so good because the manager is so good, but the museum is so good because it has such good exhibits that they are world-famous. This does not change the fact that the museum is exposed to permanent mismanagement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is quite simply a fact that in the time of Seipel the number of visitors fell by 26 percent. At the same time, he has doubled his salary to two and a half times. One cannot have a greater failure than that the number of visitors to one of the best museums goes back so dramatically, namely by 26 percent, and at the same time one increases one's salary to two and a half times, to the salary level of the Federal Chancellor! But there is, of course, a parallel given, because it also makes bad policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can explain that. The moral image shown here remains the same on all levels. At the same time, the staff costs are also increased, the staff level is increased to 400 people. No human knows what they're doing. The Court of Auditors cannot understand where these are being used. We increase from 181 free service contracts to 500 free service contracts. That is, at a time when the numbers of visitors are going down, when the economy is at the height of the economy, the personnel costs are increased here, and you do not know where the staff is being used. This is, in fact, the accusation of a scandalous economy, which the Court of Auditors has put forward here, and one should finally respond accordingly instead of thanking for such a performance. But one thing I would like to say: Basically, the investment in Morak's birthday for Seipel has already been expected, because all the ÖVP grandeurs who were invited there are defending him now. That was the counter-performance: A beautiful feast, then we'll hold, that's clear! So one hand washes the other. Have you been invited too, Minister Fassleven? Those were still times! We've had a lot of fun in the museum. The fact that MEP Neudeck defends the director of the museum is no wonder to me, for his accounting lacks even more evidence than at the Seiels. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] So that means: As a cashier of the FPÖ, he probably found a model in Seipel. You look at that! – Costs of € 12 000 for a trip to Italy are not proveable; it is not even proven whether this journey was of a service nature. It was on holiday around 12 000 €! Ladies and gentlemen, it is on holiday at tax expense! He willfully does not lift the evidence, for he cannot need to declare his vacation. The second is representation costs, which rose from €48 000 to €64,717. To this end, the Court of Auditors' report writes that they were consumed with their own employees, and this is actually a private withdrawal from the necessary livelihood. Ladies and gentlemen! 64,000 € – which corresponds to the salary of two normal workers in Austria – gives Seipel for his food with the employees he would have to pay for himself anyway. That's inconceivable what he's doing at regiment's expense! It's not possible! And the “Saliera”, that’s even the overload. First it is under-insured to 38 million schilling, although it is worth 50 million schilling. The claim is then not claimed because it is clear that the accusation of incorrect or insufficient monitoring of property for insurance would, of course, constitute a reason for departure. That is why it is not claimed, because in a case of dispute it could come to the tapet that one was first under-insurance and, secondly, had no claim to it because one did not secure the objects and thus failed the claim. What immeasurable damage can this cause to the Republic, Mrs. Minister? You'll have to bathe it out. A few words to the museum collection. They have been managed in deficit for years, from €480 000 loss in 1998 to €650 000 loss in 2001. Then the managing director of this company makes a contract with the managing director of the Kunsthistorisches Museum – both called Seipel, and the company belongs to Seipel and a second – the company takes over a symbolic schilling and at the same time increases equity by €450 000; these were the losses that were taken out before. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Incredible!]] Then Hoffmann, the partner Seiels in this company, also receives money, namely € 273 000. That is to say, these gentlemen have lowered €680 000 there at tax costs and have submitted a decision to the board of trustees, after which the company was sold by €1. This is scandalous and, in my opinion, very close to a criminal offence. That should finally be revealed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where's the prosecutor?]] [[Abg. Großruck: I thought the Paul Löwinger has already died!]] In addition, the financial statements provided to the Court of First Instance had only three points, while the financial statements submitted to the Court of Auditors and which led to the discharge of the managing director had four points. That is to say, it has been worked with two different invoices. Now I'm wondering, Who was deceived: the Court of Justice or the Court of Auditors? In my opinion, this is an approach to a serious criminal accusation. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Anzeige!]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister, for this mismanagement that is being carried out there. – Well, thank you very much for how you lead your ministry! If you don't let the soap go, then you should go yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16358	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16379	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Cap, I would regard your contribution as a culturally political one rather than a small one; it has not even been recognized in stages. Members of Parliament have spoken about it – and he has really put it to the point as the only one – that Mr Seizel has taken the right to say yes to someone on a list of persons. And that's your problem. Since then, you've been hunting people for sepulchres, and that's not right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, you may not have been to the Kunsthistorisches Museum many times, but I will be happy to send you the exhibition list: What has been done here in the last 15 years by Director Seiel, his employees, deserves recognition. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What Seizel has done!]] Not for nothing is the Art History Museum one of the most important museums in the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, take note of this! 1.3 to 1.4 million visitors per year – this is the truth! 2.3 million were in the Federal Museums in 1995. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The number of visitors increased by 50 percent. – This is the success recipe of this federal government with the distribution of museums! The ability to do justice was practically 1st. ==References== In the time of the transition from a Roomalist accounting system that has lasted 100 years, to a modern system, of course, there may be problems. [[Abg. Heinzl: Without evidence!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Do you want to claim that no evidence was needed in the Roomalist era? You don't know what you're talking about! That's ridiculous!]] More than 100 special exhibitions, 6.6 million visitors and the level of ownership of €12 million, i.e. 40 percent, are clear signs of the fact that economic criteria in this House have also prevailed and prevail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Court of Auditors report was taken very seriously by those responsible. From 24 recommendations addressed to the Kunsthistorische Museum, 18 have already been implemented. The curatorium is filled with highly recognized professionals. It has also been evaluated. It was said clearly and clearly: The prestige of the Art History Museum is exceptional and does not require any fundamental change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] KHM is a national and internationally sought partner. In Austria, no other museum exceeds the rank and versatility of museum life at the Art History Museum. One thing to conclude: The value of the museum may not be measured only by the number of visitors. He shows himself in his profile in the national and international recognition he enjoys in the quality of his programmes and offers and in the quality of his scientific research. The entire work of the Kunsthistorisches Museum can be seen. – Thanks to the employees and the responsible ones!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16472	The next item is the speech by Mr Ledolter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16494	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The spectacle that the opposition gives today with this urgent request is a blamable staging and, as I think, the effortless attempt to scandalize and criminalise and, in part, to receive untrue statements of media attention, attention to something, ladies and gentlemen, which belongs to a committee from the debate, namely in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Gradual: And he is not part of the House, is he?]] I am surprised that the chairman of the Court of Auditors, Mr Kogler, is going to speak here and that more or less of this is not in the name of himself, but only because the critics defend themselves, argue, sit down. It doesn't bother him at all that the raw report has already been in the media before he even went to the public. Ladies and gentlemen! We will hold this debate in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. We'll load information people, and we'll hear what's going on there. Just like the board of trustees and like General Director Püspök, I am not talking about slutting, but the fact is, Mr Kogler, that the audit of the annual accounts has also received complete tests and that the wealth, income and financial situation of the art historical has been found to be positive. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What does this museum need? Does it need a brilliant accountant or does it primarily need a brilliant museum maker? And Seizel is good or bad! As an entrepreneur, I say to the SPÖ: You should think carefully about how you deal with institutions of the Republic of this value, because this does damage the reputation of a tourist magnet of first order, which in the evaluation has received an excellent standing, an excellent reputation, which is also highly regarded internationally in research. Stop this seiler hat in human brutality! Not – as Mr Kogler has said – a whitewasher, but a dirt-washer brigade is here at work, which is not afraid of anything at all, even before the curatorial members are fitted. The KHM is internationally recognized, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Seipel lacks is probably a red party book!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16533	Mrs Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16555	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ledolter, only to the historical correctness: The question of how the Court of Auditors' raw report came to the public has been answered by Director Seipel in the Budget Committee itself. He said he passed it on to the journalists himself. - That's just for clarification. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hear! Listen!]] Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, the liberal club and the ÖVP! You have now obviously decided not to have a reflective capacity, no criticism, no problem-solving competence, but simply to let it be based on yourself, despite the presence of this very critical Court of Auditors report. I think this is the wrong way, because it is not only about the misbehaviour of a museum director, but also about the total trust of the population in an institution and the confidence of the population in the fact that, if the economy is clearly identified, it is also discontinued. With a policy of covering everything and not drawing any consequences from it, you break the trust of the population in the public and state institutions of the Republic of Austria in the medium term. This is a very, very wrong decision. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One thing I'd be interested in: What does a museum director have to do, which sins he actually has to commit, so that you say: These are really sins from which you have to suffer!Unknown term type: "%s".? What sins are these for you? Is that not a personal enrichment, Mr. Molterer – you have rejected the accusation of personal enrichment – if you increase your salary by 2.5 percent, by 250 percent, if you rent your own car to the company and then drive it again if you don't pay the fees properly? What is the other thing than personal enrichment? And is it not massively worrying to have this in one of the most important cultural institutions of this Republic and simply to take note of it? A question on this matter: How would you judge this, would that be the case in a private company? Would it not be the reason for a private company to do all that this Court of Auditors report says would be a temporary release? Think about it! I think making such a relationship is a command of the hour. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Is that usual – because you defend it that way? Do the other museum directors also make it? Does that also make Ms. Zuna-Kratky? Is that what Mr. Köb is doing? Is it common for you to be in the museum like this? – If no, I ask you: Why don't you get any consequences from this mismanagement report? I think the most important point in this discussion is not the question: Missal, seismic, back or forth, but: How do you deal with such a thing in a democracy? This is a democratic accusation that needs to be resolved here. I think it is worth considering – and I think that is also the jumping point – that this is about a person very close to the ÖVP, and that this seems to be the exclusive reason why this person is simply kept on. It is a person who sits in the board of the Foundation of the ORF, always voting closely to ÖVP. It's a person who was in the Chancellor's People's Committee. – Does this have anything to do with the decision to just look away from this mismanagement? If so, then democracy policy is really the most important thing you can do! To allow the government institutions of people close to the ÖVP and not to redeem them if they do not behave correctly, that is something you are not allowed to do as a party in a republic – which you obviously try here massively if you do not draw consequences from this report! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Would you also act if this museum director were to serve elsewhere in the social sphere? They have already suffered a lot of rapid consequences, from different observations, what has now happened to museums or art, in the opera sector. I remember a director of the Volksoper, who was replaced very quickly. What would have happened if this director had made a recommendation for Van der Bellen or Mr Gusenbauer? Does that matter: yes or no? [[Abg. Ledolter: Not with us! With you!]] I ask you to draw this line! In this case, do you protect an ÖVP artist or not? The suspicion is in the room that this is done solely for the purpose of protecting an ÖVP-near, politically-near people. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A very important point for me, too, is this refusal of control. The form of the Court of Auditors' dealings with the Court of Auditors is also carried out and cited in the report, and it is very worrying if the Court of Auditors writes that it has been seriously hindered in its control activities, it has not been granted access to the documents. If someone acts like seeing one of the largest art institutions in the Republic as his private collection, that is no longer acceptable. No longer to allow the Court of Auditors – I know the reports that it was rare to observe such a refusal of control as in this control activity – which is also extremely worrying in terms of democracy policy. This is not a question of art and cultural policy, it is a matter of political hygiene that people in this country can rely on it: State institutions are guided by people who have a certain basic concern. Get ten people from the street here, read the report to them and ask if they'll find out what Mr. Seipel has done. People who may earn €1 400 net a month ask if they'll find that all right! This is not about clarifying criminal interests, but simply about the question: You'll find that all right: yes or no? Is this a certain political state: yes or no? Director Seipel doesn't have him, and you, Mrs. Minister, obviously don't have him either! [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] You also do not see this danger of democracy, that kind of grat that you have crossed here, that kind of grat that you are constantly crossing here! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This begins at the Kunsthistorisches Museum, continues with the ORF and in many other institutions of this Republic: the acquisition of state institutions by a party!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16646	Mr Ledolter spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies: Facts and facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16671	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am correcting the claim that Mrs Glavischnig has just made here, according to which Director-General Seiel admitted to the Budget Committee to have committed in discrepancies himself, namely to have passed on the Court of Auditors' raw report to the press. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, he did!]] I know from personal discussions that Director-General Seizel has responded to what has already happened in the public, in the media through indiscretions. [[Call the Greens: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The whole committee heard this!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16742	That was not an actual correction, Mr deputies, that was a speech. In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. We are now voting on the self-employed motion for a resolution 635/A (E) by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues on the early appointment of the Managing Director of the Art History Museum and the new staff of the Board of Trustees of the Kunsthistorisches Museum. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – The request does not find a majority, it is therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! In a few minutes, the window will go up there. A photo will be taken for our new presentation in the ramp. That's to explain, so that no one believes it's an attack or something like that. The window up there will go up and it will be photographed. [[17:07:51]] Short debate on the response to the question 2764/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16794	We are now entering the brief debate on the question of the German Chancellor's reply with the order number 2764/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Dr. One of the contributors of the desire to open the debate. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16830	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is also a very serious question now, and it is significant that the Federal Chancellor is not here, but is represented by the Secretary of State. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's significant!]] Let me briefly present the story: The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is going to Brussels to discuss the important issues of Europe with other Heads of State and Government at the European Council, and then the ladies and gentlemen decide something there. Then the Federal Chancellor returns to Austria and is obviously responsible for nothing of what he has advised and decided there. I have 24 out of 28 questions, which he intends to raise on the basis of the decisions he has taken in Brussels himself, the answer that he is unfortunately not responsible. But there was no one else there! It is the Federal Chancellor, who alone is entitled to decide at the European Council and represents the Republic of Austria there. Then we think it might be useful to talk to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany about it, because it can only be a mistake, that he is responsible in Brussels for making 40 decisions on reorientation of the Lisbon strategies, but once he is here, he is not responsible for anything, so that he can no longer answer – and then he does not come, then he sends the Secretary of State. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: He wasn't there!]] The first was not there and the second, of course, is also responsible for nothing. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is the way European policy is perceived in Austria, we do not need to wonder that people are disappointed by what is happening there and by what is not happening. The main problem with the Lisbon strategy is that the things that are decided on here are to be implemented in the national states and that this is obviously not happening. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now five years since the Lisbon Strategy was adopted in spring 2000. The aim of the Lisbon Strategy was to make Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economic area in the world by 2010, an economic area capable of achieving sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs for greater social cohesion, while also requiring environmental protection. [[Unrest in the hall.]] I know it is much more interesting for you to be photographed, but I think it would also be interesting to consider the question of why Lisbon does not come from the spot. [[Abg. Brosz: It's over!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Heads of State and Government then set up a high-level Commission, the Wim-Kok Commission, which has submitted a report on why Lisbon does not come from the spot. It says essentially that the time since 2000 has not been particularly favourable for the achievement of the Lisbon objectives, but then it is literally stated in this report: "However, it is clearly also up to the European Union and its Member States themselves if progress is slowing down. For in many areas of the Lisbon strategy, it has not been possible to push forward the reforms with the necessary emphasis." I don't think I have to quote that anymore. It is clear that the Member States have apparently not become sufficiently committed. And then the heads of state and government meet again after five years on the basis of this report, decide on 40 new points, of which 28 are operationally feasible – and then the Chancellor goes home, we ask him what he is doing and what he is going to do within the framework of the government he has led, and he says that he is unfortunately not responsible. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor says even more: I even get ten answers to one of the questions – and he's not responsible for any! He is not responsible for any of the answers he gave me there, but he has taken advantage of the opportunity to place an advertisement there, namely to say what he did at the big show summit on 1st October. May 2005 has made a decision. Among other things, the social partners will strive to be the social partners. - Great. Congratulations! If we really want jobs to be created in Europe, if we want Europe to really become a knowledge-based area, in which social cohesion is also promoted, if we want Europe to be economically competitive, but for the inhabitants, for the people living in this area, to be and remain truly viable, and where this is not the case, then at least the efforts of the Heads of Government at home must be made to involve the relevant government colleagues in the implementation of this strategy. And then I ask you, Deputy You, Secretary of State Morak; I would like to ask the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: Who is actually responsible for what has been decided there to make known here and to make it happen? Decisions or conclusions of the Presidency after meetings of the European Council shall not be binding on the members of the Government in Austria. The Austrian Chancellor cannot buy what the German Chancellor could buy here, because the ministers are the top organs – and the Federal Chancellor is of course not a Federal Minister for everything; we know that. But if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic is not even responsible for allowing the government he has led to arrange for all to implement and report on what he decides on behalf of the Republic of Brussels, until when the implementation steps are taken, and then to report again on the effects it has had, then it would be better and cheaper, ladies and gentlemen, he would not go there and make no decisions there, because then it is worthless that he takes decisions at the European Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me conclude by now – it is not necessarily necessary to speak on this subject for a long time. I only want to know what people should think if they take note of this sequence. One point is that it seems that it is not too serious for the rulers to actually implement European policy. They are willing to decide something, preferably things that sound great, but as soon as they go home, they have forgotten it – or they are not responsible. The second point is: It is a coincidence that the most important objectives are also in the interests of the citizens of Europe, which we have to implement here. It is about implementing people's interests and bringing them into service with a reasonable economic development. But the Federal Chancellor is not responsible, so he cannot give any answers. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not wonder if, under these conditions, there is increasing Europe's creativity. I do not wonder, above all, when there is increasing political creativity. So let me conclude by saying – and that is what we said today in the early days – that: What we need is a change in Europe's policy. We need a European policy which leads to the creation of at last another, responsible policy, which also provides results, results that people in Austria want in the same way as the people in France, the Netherlands or elsewhere in Europe. [[Abg. Grill: A new constitution!]] You don't want the one who decides there to make good speeches here, but it's not responsible for anything!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16926	Mr Morak spoke on a point of view. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e16958	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as formal criticisms on the response to the question are concerned, I should like to point out that the right to interact is limited to the execution of the respective department of the member of the government. This situation was taken into account in this reply. As regards the answers to the questions in question: The Heads of State or Government agreed at the Spring 2005 Summit to focus efforts at national and European level more on increasing growth and employment, thus setting a clear priority. [[Abg. Brosz: Did you read this at the birthday party?]] Austria signed the reform dialogue for growth and employment on 1 January. In May 2005, the first step was taken to discuss the necessary national reform measures. [[Abg. Oils: Don't wear it like that!]] The Republic of Austria will provide additional funding for research of € 1 billion in the period 2005 to 2010. Changes to the Federal Finance Act 2005 and 2006 as well as to the Federal Finance Act provide these additional funds for research and development involving the Austrian Federal Finance Agency and also provide the basis for an intensification of the broadband offensive, especially in rural areas, for 2005. [[Abg. Olympians: You're giving a grave speech!]] In the area of income tax, the proposed medium-sized action in the field of research and development is intended to favour contract research tax. This measure will contribute significantly to bringing research into the broad SMEs. Thus, SMEs can in future claim a research-free amount or a research grant for contract research – estimated volume: €300 million. These two measures take into account the EU’s Lisbon and Barcelona Agenda objectives, which show that research and development are important elements for the dynamisation of growth and employment and that a 3 percent research rate is to be achieved by 2010. The Austrian Federal Finance Agency is to implement the financing. Coverage of the financing will be ensured through the profit distribution of the ÖIAG. In the field of sales tax, in order to fight fraud more efficiently, the VAT identification number should also be indicated on the invoice by the supplier or the service provider if the invoice amount exceeds € 10 000. The amount of limitation does not put an unnecessary administrative burden on the mass business. [[Abg. Brosz: What would you do if the leaf fell down?]] The summary report should be issued monthly instead of quarterly. Both measures enable financial management to carry out much faster control. [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you want to tell us?]] In the field of tax administration organisation laws, an adjustment of the powers of the financial offices to the customs offices should be made to the implementation of the Ausländerbehungsgesetz and the Labour Contracts Act. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why?]] In the area of the Financial Penal Code, the proposed increase in the imprisonment of criminal amounts of €3 million from €5 million to seven years is intended to take a further step towards more efficient fight against fraud. Thus, damage to the general public by particularly harmful offences is to be addressed by sanctions in accordance with general criminal law. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is that really true?]] - Yes. [[Abg. Dr. One: But this has not been the subject of the question!]] In the field of the Foreign Employment Act, a doubling of the threatened maximum penalty is intended to make illegal employment increasingly unattractive, which in turn suggests a positive effect on the domestic labour market. In addition, the financial offices and their institutions are also involved in combating illegal employment, which allows for a wide-ranging use of financial management. A similar effect is expected in the Labour Contract Adjustment Act. The fight against barber resistance and black-and-collar work is reinforced. To this end, the Federal Government plans to strengthen the anti-fraud unit with around 200 staff. In order to increase efficiency, economy and effectiveness in public administration, these staff will also be made up of distributed companies of the Federal Republic of Germany. In the field of labour market services, the increased fight against illegal employment by the customs offices and also within the framework of the penalties that are increasingly involved in action days of the entire financial management will be used to create by the end of 2006 the technical conditions for the electronic access of tax authorities to the AMS databases at any time, i.e. at night and at the weekend. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17103	Mr Grillitsch has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time, like all other future speakers in this debate. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17124	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the EU this morning, on the situation in the EU, especially Mr Gusenbauer's request that the European Constitution should be replaced by a better one to seek the approval of the people of Europe, was already interesting. At the same time, Mr Ververtnich said that the objectives of this Constitution should be implemented in the interests of the working population of Europe. Managing SP-Klubobmann Cap: The fissure in the SPÖ is just too perfect! Look at you getting a clear position for the EU again! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We got it! We got it!]] I believe that this would give people the security they really want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. We have at least one! The Federal Chancellor was there, and there was never anything!]] Mr. Een, Secretary of State, other than Dr. One – you were the Secretary of State and the Federal Minister – : [[Call the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs!]] As the State Secretary, have you never had to represent a minister here on the government bank – or have you not been entrusted with it? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] [[Abg. Reheis: That's weak!]] Please note that a State Secretary also has the right to represent here a Minister – in this case the Federal Chancellor –! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Also the duty!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Comparisons make us sure: We can look at the economic data, the labour market data, because these are better than those in most other EU Member States. Austria – such an EU forecast from spring –: Economic growth: 2.1 percent. [[Abg. Broukal: It has already been taken back! You know that!]] You know what that looks like in Germany under a red-green government. [[Abg. Broukal: That's not true anymore!]] Economic growth in Germany, Mr. Broukal: 0.8 percent. [[Abg. Broukal: You don't even read...!]] What about the unemployment rate? [[Abg. Broukal: The climbs in Austria!]] Do you know those numbers, Mr. Broukal? [[Abg. Oillingers: The climbs in Austria!]] 4.8 percent in Austria; 12.5 percent in Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Einm: Germany is uninteresting for us! Austria!]] A clearer expression of red figures than in the case of this red-green government there is no longer, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. I can give you figures of how it looks in Austria or in Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That was not the subject now!]] Red-green agricultural policy means: 90 per cent less investment in agricultural holdings! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] Not only that farmers invest less: As a result of non-investment, there are also fundamental effects on the labour market Mr. Ollinger, due to these non-investments there are 30 000 to 40 000 jobs per year less in Germany, while in us the farmers invest two and a half times as much as in Germany. [[Abg. Oillinger: How many farmers...?]] [[Abg. You don't talk about it! Talk about it!]] In other words, If we in Austria have 35 000 people on the labour market, there are 30 000 jobs, but 5 000 are not. – In Germany, however, 30 000 to 40 000 jobs are destroyed by this red-green government alone! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] In Austria, the mood is better than you try to represent it by the SPÖ because we in Austria have a better government and people have confidence in it – and also because they know that security is guaranteed by this government. [[Abg. Gradwell: But you are satisfied with that...?]] Mr Gradwelt! What Mr. Dr. One has said here was something polemic, namely that Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel is driving to Brussels and is not doing anything in Austria. – The fact is that there have been two growth packages under this federal government. The fact is that we have implemented a tax reform. ==References====External links== A reform dialogue was launched in May 2005. [[Abg. Riepl: And more unemployed have!]] All these are measures to secure Austria's economic location and maintain competitiveness. And this fastening package, this reform dialogue, will bring us additional growth effects on GDP in 2006 from 0.25 to 0.3 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] That also means in the medium term, Mrs Silhavy, 20 000 jobs more! Take note of this! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This policy will bring us closer to the Lisbon objectives if we have not already achieved them! For example, in case you do not know, Mrs Silhavy, we have already exceeded the target in 2001 at the women's employment rate! [[Abg. Silhavy: You know very well that...!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Lisbon dictates 60 percent. – We in Austria are 62.8 percent in this respect. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, coming to the end and really out of deep concern – because of your positioning and since you have already tried to approach Austria in 2000 –: [[President Dr. Khol, in turn, gives the bell sign]] The EU is too valuable to be sickened by you!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17456	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Hlavac. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17478	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grillitsch, we are well aware that Mr Morak is also called upon to represent Mr Bundeskanzler here, but in fact the Secretary of State is a little sorry if he is obliged to read a text here that has nothing to do with the subject. [[Abg. Grill: I don't think so!]] If this text states that it takes account of the law of interconnection, that is not quite true! As has already been said. One has found: Some questions have been answered very well, while others have not, on the other hand, questions that have been raised in the same context. That is to say, it is a suspicion that there are a number of things that one believes to be presentable – anyway, only believe; unfortunately, they are not really – that one would like to emphasize here, but that there is no point in referring to other topics. Mr Grillitsch, as far as SPÖ's position on the European Union is concerned, you do not have to worry about it. [[Abg. Grill: I'll do it!]] [[Abg. May. Regulator: Not yet, but already today!]] Firstly, we have a clear position, and we have a positive position on the European Union. But we have a critical position. [[Abg. Grill: The position is yours!]] It is simply necessary to consider critically the European Union and the situation in which it is manoeuvring, because only then can there be a way out of the present situation, which is indeed – you will admit – difficult. [[Abg. May. Controller: Yes, but not by a turnaround!]] Now again to the Lisbon Strategy. At the last meeting, the Council had to admit that the Lisbon Strategy's objective of being the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economic area in the world by 2010 was not met. That means that urgent action must be taken, and that is why we are also asking this question. And that is why it is very disappointing to see that there is no answer. Obviously, something is decided in Brussels, and then everyone goes home – and then that doesn't apply anymore, then it won't be implemented. This has obviously happened, because the European Council itself had to find regret that, although some has been decided, it has not been sufficiently identified and, above all, has not implemented it. There are a number of problems here in Austria. For example, we now have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic. They say that the level of women's employment is relatively high. Yes, however, the OSCE has rightly stated that the measures taken by the Federal Government are driving women out of the labour market. It has also been found that the social permeability of the education system is not given. There are therefore enough points to be dealt with in the context of the Lisbon Strategy. We would have expected an answer from the Federal Chancellor. We have not received them in the reply to the question, and we have not now received them from the Secretary of State. This leads to an unease in the European Union and the policies of the European Union. The European Council seems to be not responsible nationally, because the Federal Chancellor does not consider himself responsible, and the Council is not responsible to the European Parliament either. There must be no wonder – if so many problems exist and if so many expectations regarding social Europe are not met – that there is a discontent among citizens. And this dissatisfaction has been evident in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17567	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 5 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17589	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To my predecessor: To whom the common house of Europe, the development of this European Union, the peace project of the European Union, is concerned, it should also be a concern to make constructive criticisms there and there, as we have done in the past. have. I welcome the fact that social democracy is also coming to this conclusion, but it is missing at the time when we joined the European Union. I do not think it was good to paint everything beautifully, where constructive criticism would have been appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen! At the Spring 2005 Summit, the Commission presented a Communication on cooperation for growth and employment, a fresh start to the Lisbon strategy. The Presidency's conclusion on the European Council is that urgent action is needed. That is to be agreed. The starting point, the 2000 Lisbon Strategy, is that the European Union should be made the world's most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economic area within the next decade, that is, by 2010. Sustainable growth, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion should ultimately be the result. The EU's objective also requires an interim balance sheet. The fact is that the goal is missing, the growth is too low, the production is too low. We know that we also have a very low birth rate, even falling, and – although desirable, but with corresponding effects on the achievement of the objective – of course also a higher life expectancy. The Commission's proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (COM(88) 588 final) One has asked, and I also believe that an inquiry meeting makes sense. Why? Because I believe it is appropriate to look, on the one hand, at the development towards this objective, at where we are on the road to this objective of looking at the development of the European Union and, on the other hand, at the Austrian situation within the Community, within the Member States. I regret that it reduces my colleague's ability to present the polemic: The chancellor travels to Brussels and talks to his colleagues in government, something is decided, chancellor goes home. That's it, and it's not going to be implemented. I notice: First, Austria is not responsible for the overall success or failure to achieve the Lisbon strategy. And second: If you consider Austria to be an isolated Member State, this would be quite positive. I would like to mention the Wim Kok report, which is about half a year old. This report mentions Austria three times more positively. The employment target for 2005 was achieved by 67 percent and the women's employment target. We can say that it is too small, but the target for 2010 - 60 percent - is also achieved. And I also mention the full liberalisation of the gas and electricity market. So a discussion makes sense, as I mean. However, we can consider where we can get even better, even if the EU as a whole does not achieve this objective. I note that Austria is on a good path, is on a right path, Austria is a good reformist, and not because it says the Hofmann, but that is ultimately confirmed by the foreign media. These speak of the “Success Model Austria”. For example, the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” writes: “By the driver of the general German post-war welfare” “to the autonomous success model”. – Similar in the “Süddeutsche Zeitung”. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about how we could make it even better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17646	Last word: Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17667	Ladies and gentlemen! Isn't it a wrong world we live in? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Morak, is not present at the point where for two and a half hours he and his feasts are also spoken together with the director of the museum and cannot therefore express himself, and then he is physically present at an item on the agenda, but cannot express himself because he really has nothing to say about it. And this is not even an accusation to you, Mr State Secretary, but because the Federal Chancellor's Office, says: the Federal Chancellor, has decided not to say anything about employment in Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: And what was this morning?]] The argument is “part”. Therefore, because the Chancellor refuses to answer a question, Mr Molterer, because the Federal Chancellor says in Europe: I am with the other Heads of Government, we decide to do something!, although the Lisbon-Barcelona scenario has gone into the pants, but: Are we not good? Thank you, Members of the Government! We've already heard: A parameter of women's employment rate is fulfilled. But we did not need this government, which was already fulfilled at the beginning. Let's talk about it. The Federal Chancellor says: I am there, we decide something, we start something!, we return to Austria and do nothing. Then there's a request, and he thinks: If I don't do anything, I don't have to answer anything. And the Secretary of State makes himself up and represents this as a position of government and says that the right of the Members to interact only relates to questions of execution. And since the Federal Chancellor does not intend to do what he has decided at European level on questions of employment and growth, this is not a question of execution, but obviously a question of non-conformity, and therefore he is neither the State Secretary nor the Federal Chancellor. And the Federal Chancellor thinks: I can best demonstrate this non-responsibility by my absence. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a simple result of what you really have to say in the field of employment: apart from headings from the employment summit, it is obvious nothing. And it's true, too. You have nothing to say. You didn't do anything. This is a result of what you offer here in the inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, such a question should not be taken into account. This is really intolerable, Mr Molterer, even when it comes to your Federal Chancellor, your party's. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ours!]] Our Federal Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor of the Republic. Especially then it is not acceptable that of 28 questions 23 are not answered because the Federal Chancellor explains to you and us: It's none of my business.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17745	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[17:42:05]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17767	I will resume the negotiations on points 6 and 7 of the agenda. Mr Glaser has spoken. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17791	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Now that we are returning to the issue of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to remind you first of the fact that two years ago we decided on the last amendment to this law and at the time felt that we would achieve more efficiency in debt recovery with this novel, which is what happened. However, the dynamics of development in this area shows that new answers must always be found, because it is always necessary to take into account new facets in the field of debt recovery. For example, this amendment now increases the amounts that can be carried out in the simplified procedure from € 10 000 to € 30 000, or will allow the direct application of the European Enforcement Order, and will no longer require its own Austrian procedure. Or: The issue of the asset register is facilitated, or will be made for the first time – and this is worth mentioning – compensation for non-participative third parties. There are a number of other facets that are being re-regulated with this Rules of Procedure and are intended to help to make debt recovery more efficient. I believe – and some previous speakers have already pointed out – that we should not overlook the fact that, in addition to more or less professional debt making, there will be cases where a person comes into such a situation through an accident, through ease of opportunity, or where, above all, inexperienced young people are faced with the problem of execution due to excessive debt. I also believe that it is quite right – and that has already been mentioned by previous speakers from the various political groups – if we consider taking accompanying measures and not just relying on the strictness of the law. I believe it is important for us to be careful when crediting, that it is important to do awareness work in mobile operators and in dispatch stores, including in school and at work. Perhaps an approach would also be to let affected young people talk to other young people themselves, as is the case for example in driving licences at the moment. I simply believe – and this is my personal concern – that the word execution alone is something horrible – and the implementation is also something very unpleasant. While we must, on the one hand, enforce the strictness of the law in order to make it clear to the public that obligations are to be met, I believe that it is equally necessary for young people, in particular, to carry out accompanying and preventive awareness-raising work and educational work. And that. In addition to the implementation of the legislation, we should take it as seriously as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17842	Mrs Bundesminister Mag has now spoken. Miklutsch. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17864	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to limit myself to the Rules of Procedure Novelle. These are essential objectives – and my previous speaker has already done so – which are to improve the efficiency of the execution procedure, to extend the use of IT in the execution procedure, to adapt the rules of execution to the European Enforcement Act, but also to adapt the remuneration of executioners under the Enforcement Fees Act. From the discussion on this item on the agenda, I could see that, in particular, the opposition has concerns about the introduction of the simplified procedure, which now goes up to a disputed value limit of €30 000. In this context, I can tell you that our experience with this simplified procedure in the execution procedure is very good. 85 percent of the complaints are already filed by electronic means – after the ZPO, it is possible to file up to €30 000 by electronic means, the so-called Mahnklage – and 60 percent of all execution procedures are already carried out by the simplified procedure. I would also like to remember that we were very well aware of the need for special protection in this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the authorisation of execution is already delivered in advance, and there is, of course, the possibility to object and all appeals, if they are successful, to actually apply them. In this context, it was important for us to achieve equality in such a way that it is now possible by electronic means after the ZPO to a value of €30 000 in the use of IT and that we also wish to introduce the same threshold in the execution procedure. I think this is a very good thing. The second point raised here today, which will also be discussed and voted on under this agenda item, is the judicial organisation in Graz. It has been asked several times why we need a one-year extension here. I'd like to make it clear. We started to build the Graz-West District Court in Graz in April this year. There have been delays in construction, and we will not be able to complete this construction until December. From our point of view, it would have been little useful to carry out the judicial organization in Graz practically in a house. Thankfully, therefore, MEPs Fekter and Böhmdorfer have made the request that the time limit for the judicial organisation in Graz be extended by one year, so that the court building in Graz-West is fully functional and operational. I would therefore ask you to agree on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17904	The last speaker to this is Mrs Mag. Mulder. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17927	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I would just like to return briefly to the increase in value limits, because the increase from € 10 000 to € 30 000 in the accelerated procedure is disproportionately high from our point of view. The explanatory notes also state quite clearly that the main reasons for this are those of efficiency, and it states that: ‘It is therefore appropriate to waive the full verification of the conformity of the execution application with the execution title, including for claims up to the amount provided for in the reminder procedure, and to raise the value limit to that amount’. That's what it's all about. I think that the debtors are worse, and that is why we here too, as we have already done in committee, will call for a separate vote, and my group will not agree to this either. But what I would like to ask very briefly is that, as the explanatory statement says, these Rules of Procedure should have an employment-enhancing effect. This is not quite clear to me, and the OGH has also stated in its opinion that this is not transparent. Perhaps you could give a brief opinion, Mrs Minister, to explain this. In conclusion, however, I would also like to make a fundamental point here: The order of execution does not differ in itself between inconsistency and inability to pay, it always assumes inconsistency of payment. In many cases, however, it appears that a very long inability to pay is progressing. There are, however, no provisions for protection, and the legal consequences of the Rules of Procedure are to be borne for all those who are unable to pay, and this very often triggers a debt spiral, which very often then leads to poverty. Some points would be superior here. I would just like to say briefly that, for example, the increase in the borders of pledge would be a relief for many who are in such a situation. Germany, for example, has a higher level than we have. This would facilitate the situation for many families. A second point, which might be to be considered and discussed, is the pay-paid calculation, which is carried out by employers. This does not actually mean a balanced legal position between debtors and creditors, here you use a cheap collection office. There too, it would be necessary to discuss whether this could not be changed. These are a few points. You see, there's still a lot to do here, it would be a lot more to discuss. But otherwise we will agree with this novel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17974	Mrs. Miklauch has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e17995	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Only very briefly to improve employment and the Austrian economic location, because I was addressed directly in this regard. This is very easy to explain: To the extent that you have long execution procedures as a company or as a company, do not bring your outsiders long Come in. Our intention was to speed up the execution process as quickly as possible, so that the economy can get to its money as quickly as possible, so that it can then invest in the economy and thus also in employment and for work. – This is the approach behind it. The next, where there is obviously a misunderstanding, is the simplified procedure. That means de facto, on the one hand, that the use of IT is possible, and on the other hand, that the title of execution, i.e. the judgment, does not have to be settled, as is otherwise necessary in the execution procedures – that is really a simplification for us – and that this does not have to be examined in the final effect by the court officials, by the lawyers. – This is just for the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18027	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. None of the rapporteur wishes a final word. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on the Rules of Procedure of 2005 in 928 of the Supplements. To this end, Mr Jarolim has asked for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article I.Z. 11 as amended by the Government template. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The sign will be given unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on the Organisation of District Courts in Graz, including the title and receipt in 989 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign of approval. – The majority of the vote will be taken. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent to the law in third reading, I ask him for a sign. – The law is also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[17:56:13]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (825 d.a._Other Organiser Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Prevention, Control and Punishment of Trafficking in Human Beings, in particular trade in women and children, against Transboundary Organised Crime (987 d.a.) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on motion 601/A by Dr Dieter Böhmdorfer, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, colleagues on a federal law that amends the Federal Law, which amends the temporary measures in the field of penalty suspension (988 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18129	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Dr. Brinek has spoken. She wants to talk to us for 4 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18156	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In the last few weeks and months, we have been confronted with headlines that say: Trafficking in human beings flourishes: 2004 there are more perpetrators than victims for the first time! - Or: 99 percent of women, particularly those from Eastern Europe. - Or, one last example: Victims are brutally exploited! That's a bad warning signal! In Austria, too, the executive complains that trafficking in human beings is increasing. According to UN, trafficking in human beings together with tow is already the third most important source of income for organised crime worldwide. 99 percent of women are affected, at least as far as Austria is concerned, who are mainly attracted to the West for the purpose of sexual exploitation from Eastern Europe. At home, in the home countries, they are told what it is all about employment opportunities – waitress, au pair girls and others – and then women often have to end up, of course involuntarily, in cellar holes as prostitutes. They are forced to issue their personal documents, they are forced to deliver money, with the pretext that visa debt or transport costs must be reimbursed. The police refer to the following amounts: 15 000 € to 20 000 € are not rare. Experts also refer to the horning dark figures in connection with trafficking in women. Ladies and gentlemen! Europe has acted, Austria too. What is it to be re-adjusted? – I remember: ==References====External links== A convention on the protection of victims was presented in May. Austria has already ratified a UN Convention to combat cross-border crime in 2000. At the Conference of States, the present Additional Protocol on the Prevention, Control and Punishment of Trafficking in Human Rights, in particular the trade in women and children, has also been drawn up. This is good for Austria in terms of action, but it is committed to the Additional Protocol on international cooperation, to the creation of criminal offences and to improved rules on the protection of witnesses and victims. Ladies and gentlemen! With the asylum law to be adopted in the near future – as a superscription – with the creation of a new residence permit, for example, an improvement will also be made in order to achieve common standards in the fight against trafficking in human beings. Finally, the clarification in the Criminal Code or in the Criminal Law Change Act 2004 has already led to an improvement in the opportunities to combat trafficking in human beings. I conclude with a number of concerns, which have recently been communicated via the media: A total of 4 million to 5 million people are traded annually. – This must give us thought, and if we come to the conclusion that further legislative measures need to be put in place on the basis of this Convention and this Additional Protocol, we will certainly do so together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18201	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. – I should like to ask the ladies in plenary not to turn their backs on the speakers! [[Abg. Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek speaks, turning the back of the front side of the floor, with colleagues in the political groups.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18229	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already stated that the issue of ratification of this protocol on the prevention, control and punishment of trafficking in human beings is a problem which is taking on dimensions that are probably not yet possible ten years ago. It is estimated that 500 000 women from Eastern Europe and the CIS have been victims of trafficking in human beings. 75 percent of these women who have become objects of this brutal trade are 25 years and younger. So there are in some villages in Moldova, so we are told that hardly more women under the age of 25, and that is already an alarm sign. If we continue now, these figures of horror are also to be added to the fact that, according to the Council of Europe's estimate, there has been a report on this, some 100 000 children from Eastern Europe in the West have to prostitute. In this context, you also allow the question: Where is the demand? Who is the demander, who are the demanders? The traffickers use several methods to lure the women away from their families: once the possibility of work, on the other hand, they do not hesitate to kidnap the children, the young girls. Children are particularly popular because they are “multiplily usable” to speak in the diction of these criminals: They can be fed to illegal adoption or sexual abuse or used as a slave worker or, as always, to see us again and again, they can be used as thieves for small crime, i.e. for pocket theft. Another factor of action and a further cruel formulation of these crime statistics is also the trade in organs. On the side of these bands, one does not startle from the fact that one organizes babies and then deals with the organs. It's a thriving trade that's being run here. – This is really horrible! All this is happening here among us, in our society! Trafficking in human beings, ladies and gentlemen, has now become a very good business. I call you a few numbers: According to UN estimates, turnover from illegal prostitution is as much as €60 billion. The profit from it has doubled in the last five years to around €14 billion. So, as I said, it's a good business. Behind these naked numbers are often really horrendous fates: People are tortured, tormented, and often killed in the end. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time for measures to be taken in the EU countries, in Western Europe. One measure, Mrs Minister, is that we are ratifying this Additional Protocol today. Other measures, but legal measures must follow: For example, foreign laws must be reviewed where they work counterproductively, because it cannot be the case that those who have been victims of trafficking in women must, when they say, be afraid that they will be postponed, that they will not receive a residence permit, and thus the dark figures will still go up and the perpetrators will not be taken. Because, as it is also said in the various technical journals: This business is therefore such a good one because the risk for the perpetrators to be captured is low. There is a need for action at the legal level, and we need to adjust internally in this area. To conclude: Since the victim protection facilities also need to play a major role or play, I believe it is important and necessary that, in addition to the already existing facilities – here in Vienna, there is an institution – we create more. There is nothing to be found in the west of the federal territory, although bordering country. It is essential that we install victim protection facilities to help these women, these children, these people. It is not to be seen that we tolerate such conditions here in our country. In this sense, I hope that rapid legislative measures will be taken to remedy these conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18287	Mr Böhmdorfer is now speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18308	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, to the Palermo Protocol. I must say quite frankly to you that I have observed this attempt at new rules to combat these abuses at international level, in particular in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and now I would like to add something and say clearly: You can also think of a debureaucratisation! It is incredible what effort will be put into international meetings. Then, accompanied by many social events, one finally fights for any formulations. Then the President of the Federal Republic, accompanied by ministers, goes and signs it solemnly. Then matter comes to Parliament years later, like here, and then there's a line that says: ‘This State contract is defined in Article 50(1). 2 B-VG by passing laws.’ It is to be considered whether this objective, which everyone here obviously wants to sign and pursue, cannot also be achieved more unbureaucratically and with less effort. If one really compresses the effort, especially the financial effort – apart from the time effort – and this at international level The use of modern means of communication – not in three to four years, but in a year or half a year – would be more effective for the people to be protected. So that means: Aims yes, implementation yes, but in the future perhaps also a few thoughts about how to make it more efficient. Something Similarly, I have to say to extend the law on the suspension of punishment. Years ago it was decided to allow this suspension for the following reason: The prisons in Austria were used in 2000 at about 85 percent. Now they are used to 100 to 105, perhaps even more per cent. In Germany it is 110 percent, in Greece 160 percent. It is a Europe-wide phenomenon that is happening here. Why is that so? – Because in Austria so many arresters are in custody. We have about 600 to 800 arresters in Vienna alone overhanging, which are distributed to the Vienna Detention Centres. Normally, with a reserve of 15 percent – i.e. 85 instead of 100 percent – you can use these reserves for the various types of execution we have – youth performance, female performance, first execution, discharge execution, “search-to-poison” – in order to transfer the prisoners to the respective free space, and there they will be carried out in accordance with the aim of resocialization. It's not going on any more overburdening! – Now it has come to pass that the prisoners are in other prisons and the judges could or should go – what they do not, but rather that the prisoners must be brought to the place of consultation under threat of public security. Why is that so?– On a weekend in Vienna, 40, 60, 80 prisoners are often brought in, checked into the court, checked – there are a lot of foreigners among them; more than 50 percent of the prisoners are foreigners – they are checked who they are at all – and then finally there is a mandatory interrogation. This investigation, i.e. the first hearing by the examiner, has to take place immediately. Now, if the prisoners are in a building other than the judges, there is no longer a proper criminal justice. That is why we need to build a second federal court in Vienna, which is mentioned on this occasion, in which investigators can be accommodated in the same building as those judges who need to hear them as quickly as possible during their questioning. I do not understand now – and I am not saying this for the first time in this House – that the judges who know that this must be the case are against it. This is a personal sensitivity because one does not want to have a second national court president in Vienna, because one does not want to pursue a judicial policy that really looks at the facts, and because one has an unusual persistence. The judges think persistently and conservativeally in these questions. I therefore ask the Minister of Justice to support the construction of this second court building in Vienna. The financing is already secured. The same applies – with the same importance and the same ranking – to the termination of the judicial organisation in Vienna, which is long overdue. There are still judicial staff in obsolete buildings, this must finally be in a new Buildings are transferred, even if they do not want to do so at the moment, because they have the described endurance. It is necessary to make a judicial policy that can and must be responsible for itself and that looks into the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18381	Mrs Moser is now speaking. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18402	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the current occasion, Mr Böhmdorfer, I am allowed to replicate; I will come to the actual agenda items later. It is undisputed that there is currently too little room for the prisoners or for the prisoners in Vienna as a whole. It is undisputed that we need additional premises. But it is very controversial whether a second criminal court must be set up in Vienna. This is very controversial. I should just like to remind you once again of the punctuation of the relevant positions. To reduce these undisputed high numbers of prisoners in the Josefstadt, there is certainly a need for new detention rooms, but all means should be used as far as possible to prevent the division of the court or the re-establishment of a court. We certainly need a concentration of the arresters in the courts, there you are quite right; the paths must be short, the availability must be given. But I don't think we need two courts. We do not need a doubling of the organisational structure, because this increases the effort of the matter, and the loss of synergies results. - That's the first thing. Now to the actual agenda items. There is a request, both by you and Mrs Fekter, to take temporary measures in the field of penalty. . You know that your application for a budget accompanying law with the same title goes back, which in turn is based on the fact that in Austria we have increasing numbers of prisoners that we have an average of 8,000 prisoners instead of 7 000 prisoners on average. This, of course, leads to a bottleneck. And you want to eliminate this bottleneck with your delaying measures in the field of penalty. But, Mr former Minister Böhmdorfer and Mrs Miklauch – I can tell you now – there has been a committee of inquiry in this House, which has been very pressing and clearly pointed out that we have a huge need for reform in the Sanctions catalogue, that there are quite different possibilities to reduce the number of prisoners and that we should start here, in other words, with a reform of the judicial policy, and above all with regard to the enforcement policy. For this reason, in June 2003, Mr Stoisits rejected the then budget accompanying law. And that is why we are rejecting your proposal today, which, in turn, is a renewal of this budget accompanying law in view of the fact that practically temporary measures for the suspension of the penalty are to be extended once again. Mr Stoisits said at the time that your suspension method does not make sense, because the survey committee has also made other proposals which are very important. would be more efficient. You want to extend something that's pointless today? – On the other hand, we speak out quite firmly and point out that we should finally take a real reform path. Now on a positive point of this compression of agenda items. This positive point has already been made very clearly by my previous speakers, namely the arrival of an additional protocol to prevent, combat and punish trafficking in human beings. I do not want to add any more to the figures, the facts, the insidious injustice and misery, but only to stress that we now finally have a global legal instrument and that, in order to ensure that this global legal instrument, which is urgently necessary, these millions of people concerned, can do something to curb this incredible number and, as far as possible, to work on the root of it, to combat the causes, some measures could also be taken in Austria. As a suggestion, I would like to place here the establishment of a central government body against trafficking in human beings. In this one could really concentrate all the forces in order to pack the evil at the root and to eliminate this heaven-screaming abuse, this truly inhuman relationship that still exists, as quickly and as well as as quickly as possible – or at least to reduce the fate of those affected by a better victim consultation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18463	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18485	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have a UN agreement, the so-called Palermo Protocol, which regulates cross-border organised crime, in principle, cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! This includes crimes such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, car-shipping, but also, of course, fraud and trafficking in human beings. Everything researched, everything said, only one I want to add: Mrs. Moser and Mrs. Wurm, there are communication strategies that bring awe to every learned policeman in Austria. There are criminal organizations, well equipped with state-of-the-art technology and well-trained. It is only necessary to know this, because, Mrs Moser, if we so to speak, join the Palermo Protocol – and it is ratified – then we must be aware that we must act against these groups here in Austria with national legislation. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, eh! That's what it's all about!]] Mrs. Moser and Mrs. Wurm, I would You would like to remind politely if we are talking about measures in the Security Police Act or, for example, in the Asylum Act, that a very high number of foreigners are also working here in the whole area of drug crime. [[Abg. Oils: Honorable is always good!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Temporary residence permit!]] I just want to look at reality and prevent party-political arguments. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a problem! We must therefore strengthen and improve cooperation internationally. And I am opposed to Mr Böhmdorfer, who says that these international meetings take a very long time. – Yes, but this is also about awareness among the parliamentarians and among the politicians, not only Europe-wide, I am expanding this: We need to work together here worldwide in order to stop this crime. We need improved information, we need the exchange of data. We must all be aware of this, because if it becomes concrete, Mr Oillinger, when we talk specifically about measures, then the Green Group must also say: Yes, we want to stop drug trafficking and trafficking. [[Abg. Brosz: Have we ever said something else?- Oh, my God!]] And these police strategies and measures are a building block to this. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: What are you doing?]] If I hear Mrs Moser speaking in the throes of inner conviction now, but then, when it comes to police action, listen to how much one is distanced, then I must say, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that is not together! [[Abg. Oils: Tell us what!]] [[Call the greens, what? About what?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Of what measures?]] I think that the protocol, which is now to be adopted and ratified, is good and right. [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is almost a million people – Mrs. Worm, the excitement is artificial and provocative – and nearly a million people in Europe are victims of it. [[Abg. May. Worm: No! 'Cause I've known you in the meantime!]] And the special thing about this group of crimes and crimes is that perpetrators and victims do not usually cooperate with the police because the victim is very often put under massive pressure. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, eh! That's what it's all about!]] What measures, Mrs Worm, would you suggest? What measures does the State intend to take to ensure that it is able to deal with this, and that the rights of women are protected so that this does not happen? What are we supposed to do about it? This is precisely what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Worm: The victim should not be criminalized! That's what it's all about!]] If women are lured into the country under the guise of some false facts in order to be brought to prostitution, I expect you to put forward appropriate measures. [[towards SPÖ and Greens]] There are a lot of them, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: I thought you were in the government...!]] Please? – We always propose, but are permanently exposed to your criticism when it comes to concrete measures. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: I thought you were in the government and suggested measures!]] [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens:Where? Which one? Where are they?]] We need to know, Mrs Colleague: In the meantime, it is already the third most important source of income in organised crime. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, right! We all know that! Do it at last!]] There are incredibly high amounts of money in circulation, a lot of money will be earned there. And I think it's good that we talk about it today, because we finally come to the classical question: How much freedom are we willing to be able to live, for how much security we put on the balance, so to speak? Security and freedom, these are two fundamental elements in our Republic, in our democracy. [[Abg. Oillinger: But the question is a bit wrong! “How much freedom are we willing to live”?]] I think it must be clear to us that one without the other is losing value, Mr Oellinger, so I would like to ask you and ask you to join us when it comes to concrete measures. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Justice, who has achieved the essentials. I think you will give your consent to the signing and ratification of the Palermo Protocol, and I am looking forward to further work on security, together with the Greens and the SPÖ Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18731	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18753	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Miedl, you are not supposed to explain the world to us – we already know what the fact is – but act! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, you don't know that!]] And if you want concrete measures or want to have: I can now bring you a number of proposals, but, I think, it will not be useful because you will not implement them. Ladies and gentlemen! The decision-making of this Additional Protocol is very welcome, but implementation will be more questionable. And I'm not as euphoric as Mr Brinek. If we look at the explanations on this law, it is reasonable that no additional legislative measures are necessary, because there is anyway an association that is called Lefö and that takes over the entire work. – I think you are doing something simple, because there would be a number of measures to be implemented. My fear is that we will decide on a good additional protocol as a basis, but without any legal consequences – and this at the expense of those concerned. The fact that the additional protocol is to be implemented by means of its own laws has also been pointed out by Mr Brinek, and in that we are quite agreed. However, I am really skeptical that this will run so optimally. An example: Article 6(3) states that the ‘Contracting State is considering the implementation of measures’ for ‘health of victims of trafficking in human beings’, for example by ‘adequate accommodation’. - Good. However, according to the association that works with those concerned, there is far too little there. That means that a concrete measure would be to do much more here. Or, another measure would be the “consultation and information ” on“ due rights, ” in one “understanding language ” to the victims. – Again, the question arises: How is this to be financed? And since exactly those associations, those NGOs who work in this direction, are gradually deprived of the financial basis, I am also skeptical about this that this can be implemented. Finally, this article also mentions employment opportunities. – However, if one considers that a single woman, a single victim, has received an employment permit in 2004, then I am skeptical here too. All the others were rejected because the quota was fulfilled. Next example: Article 7 calls for “legislative measures”,“ which allow for the victims of trafficking in human beings, ” “to remain temporary or permanent”. – But this too is not adequately regulated. And in the new Xenophobia Act, we also find insufficient rules in this respect. For example, when granting a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, it says that victims of trafficking in human beings only receive a stay to ensure the prosecution, that is, stay only if the victim is ready to make a statement against the perpetrator immediately. – This is problematic because many women are so traumatised that they can’t even do it; they would need a period of time before they are accompanied in which they can gather and think about how they continue to proceed. If there is such a phase in which they can stay here without pressure, they are more willing to declare against the perpetrators. By the way, this is a model that already exists in Europe, for example in Belgium, Holland, Italy, there is a three-month period of thought. I very much hope that the foreign law will be changed in this sense, because, as it is now formulated, this is not clear, but depends only on the goodwill of the respective minister or minister. In this very example, Mr Miedl, we will see how seriously the Government really takes this additional protocol. We will soon, in a few weeks, have proof of whether you really want to help the victims and address the issue, or whether this was just an alibi decision today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18789	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Mag speaks. Miklutsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18811	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, today is a very important day, because we are ratifying this UN Convention today. And I can assure you that the fight against specific crimes in the field of trafficking in human beings is a very essential concern for us. As far as this is concerned, I would like to stress that we are already doing a lot of things. We will be presenting to the National Council very soon the novel on the follow-up to the process, with which we want to prefer the protection of victims in the process, which is essential for those women who are victims of trafficking in human beings. It is also important to me that our judges and prosecutors be sensitized in this area. For example, together with LEFÖ, that is, the association you have just mentioned, Mrs Stadlbauer, we have carried out training events because I believe that, regardless of legislative measures, there is certainly a need for some kind of awareness of this area, including the judges and prosecutors. There is also a task force on trafficking in human beings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which deals with the implementation of other measures, where necessary, and takes this issue very seriously. If I can now come to the second area, the extension of the possibility of criminal proceedings: I would like to follow up on what one of my previous speakers, Mr Böhmdorfer, said, that we have a massive problem with the numbers of prisoners in the east of Vienna. I have also mentioned it several times here in the National Council, but we still have numbers of prisoners around 9 000, but only about 8 200. For this reason, it is certainly necessary for us to create further detention space. It is also used massively. However, we have the problem, especially in Vienna, that we have very high levels of detention, which is why it will be necessary to set up a second judicial centre here in Vienna. Everything else will be decided in the next few days. In general, it is certainly important to consider alternatives to enforcement. You all know that the electronic footband is a special concern to me. We are in the process of carrying out a pilot project on this subject in the area of conditional redundancies. It's on the way out. – So there are alternatives! There will also be alternatives to the right of replacement. Together with the Restart Procurement Aid, we test non-profit work in the framework of pilot projects instead of replacement sentences. In addition to the fact that punishment must, of course, remain a penalty, our main objective in the execution of the sentence is to enable the best possible resocialisation of people who have become criminal and, depending on the type of criminal offence, to contribute to his resocialisation as much as possible. In general, this measure, as it is proposed here, is certainly useful and useful precisely because of the current detention situation. I would therefore ask you to approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18866	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Your welcome time is 7 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18887	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Miedl has previously felt obliged not to mention any possible measures that would reject the opposition and not to mention any possible measures that the government would take. That is, I think, an exciting culture, to speak, to produce and not to mention all the measures, but to fight violently that they are then rejected. I shall try to do the opposite and very concretely mention a few measures, by the way, once again. We have had a similar debate on victim protection on several occasions in recent months, in the last one or two years here in the House. You will be able to read it, it is proven in the protocol: There have always been very concrete proposals by the opposition parties. What has not been put in place so far, what is missing, are the concrete measures that the government would actually implement in the area of victim protection in the area of trafficking in women, in trafficking in human beings. First of all, I would like to start with the demand side of trafficking in human beings. If one summarizes it, one can say that it is essentially about bringing cheap labour, youthful prostitutes and willing wives about trafficking in human beings into the respective recipient country. There's not so much else in Austria. I can present you with an advertisement from a newspaper called "Wiener Fund Grube", which was already running several months ago. I quote: Intermediation of partners seeking Asians, South American women, Romanians, Russians, Yugoslavs, Polishs, Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians. The girls and ladies are pretty, faithful, domestic, every age, speak German. – With success guarantee! Are you lonely, looking for You're a decent woman, then write to... – citation. There is still this decade in Austria. I am convinced – although I did not find an advertisement this year – that the phenomenon will not be gone. Action one that the Federal Government could, at any rate, set up is a broad-ranging educational work on the issues of marriage, trafficking in women and girls for prostitution, but also trade of people for cheap workers, especially as household aids, maids and the like. There are also famous cases in the UK, but there are also cases in Austria. The organisation LEFÖ also documents case examples: for example, the case of an Austrian who had been stationed in the Philippines and then a household assistant who had been recruited there had taken false facts to Austria and had almost been imprisoned here after the end of the three-month tourist visa in quite despicable conditions. Austria is not so much better than other countries. The problem needs to be taken seriously, and information work is the first step. The second step is the mechanism to deal with. This is the area where international cooperation at the police level is more than necessary and where this additional protocol is also used. I would already be interested in Mr Miedl answering this – perhaps you can tell it, he is just not in – where the Greens would have ever been against a meaningful police cooperation to detect and persecute human trafficking rings and relevant organizations. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He has just left the place!]] It is only interesting that it immediately produces the association chain: Asylum law is like drugs. I'd be curious about the reason. I am still going to deal with the issue of asylum and xenophobia. In any case, however, it is essential that one really pursues the perpetrators with all the consequence and, if there were to be, the perpetrators. However, it is essential that I actually protect those people who can testify that I have the tool for persecuting the perpetrators. I can't believe in a police procedure that I can make an accusation and make sense if I turn off all kinds of witnesses from the outset. It doesn't work. If you want to transfer someone, you need exactly the people who can do that, namely the victims. But what we still do in Austria – there is clearly a need for improvement in the legal situation – is to put the victims under pressure, to threaten with deportation still during the ongoing procedures. Of course, the most human remains: to explain to the victims of human trafficking: We are there for you, there is support, there is advice, both psychological advice and the residence permit. There is the possibility, as a rule and not as a lonely exception, in cases where a return is not possible or difficult to obtain a residence permit in Austria. That should be the minimum. This is where Austria is clumsyly failing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One last comment to the victim protection facilities. I remember the vehemence with which the then still black and blue German government of the club LEFÖ was evaluated for months in committee, which criticism he faced. [[Abg. The Kukacka!]] And now I had to experience several times that LEFÖ has almost got to be like a Jolly Joker in all the state's emergencies. If you ask the Ministry of the Interior: What to do But you for equal treatment for women?, the answer comes: We got the LEFÖ! When I ask the Minister of Justice: What do you do for the protection of the victim?, the answer comes: We got the LEFÖ! And so on. But in the case of what the LEFÖ receives from public funds, it is obviously not possible to remember that there is the LEFÖ. And that's just one organization, and that's far too little. However, Mrs Wurm, a criticism of the SPÖ's address is also addressed: The fact that there is a victim protection facility in Vienna is now correct. Until recently, there were two. There was an excellent project with the SILA, which also worked in the area of migrants and illegally immigrated or imported women. Unfortunately, the financing of SILA by the city of Vienna is not continued. [[Abg. Stadlbauer: That's not true!]] And there are others outside of Vienna. – That’s right! What you are doing is financing a city-Vienna-near, completely different structure, which by far does not continue the expertise of SILA, which I deeply regret, because that would not have been such a great thing to continue a proven, internationally networked organization in Vienna. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: There is nothing in the whole of Western Austria!]] I would therefore like, first of all, to think about it again in Vienna, and secondly, that you, Mrs Minister, and your colleagues in the Federal Government are supporting, promoting and facilitating several victim protection facilities, rather than always saying in an emergency: We got one anyway! – Perhaps you want to take over the financing of SILA as a victim protection facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e18981	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19002	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The prevention, control and punishment of trafficking in human beings are important measures to protect the fundamental rights of individuals. Personally, I am pleased that we all now jointly approve this Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention in order to protect in particular women and children from cross-border organised crime. Trade with human beings is a gross violation of human rights, which must be fought hardest. Again and again in the media, we are confronted with reports of shaking individual fates. Every year, thousands of women and children with false promises or against their will are brought from one country to another for the purpose of sexual exploitation or illegal employment. It is people in poverty who are exposed to the danger of human trafficking. Austria is both a transit country and a destination country for organized trade with women and children from Eastern Europe. In recent years, trade in women and children has taken on enormous dimensions, as we have already heard, so that huge profits can be achieved. The working group on trafficking in human beings of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe estimates that in Vienna alone some 4,000 victims of human This is the case in the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, That is why our Federal Government has so far forced cooperation with the competent authorities in other countries, both at national and international level, to facilitate the investigation and criminal prosecution of trafficking in human beings. The Austrian law enforcement authorities have established contacts with the authorities in the home countries of the perpetrators in order to facilitate prosecution. The Austrian government is also committed to protecting the victims of trafficking in human beings. It supports organisations that provide protection, legal assistance and health services for victims of trafficking in human beings. The victims also have access to services financed by the Federal Government. The Convention of the With the current Additional Protocol, we can see the United Nations as a groundbreaking international treaty that will bring the nations of the world a huge step forward in the fight against trafficking in women and children.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19051	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19072	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As we were in the context of the budget accompanying laws in 2003 the parent law, which took place on 30 June 2003. In June of this year, because the deadline has expired, debated and decided, I strongly pointed out that this is an important part of solving the problems of the year 2003 in connection with the execution of the sentence and is to be seen as a relief, but urgent action must be taken in the Austrian execution of the sentence. Her predecessor, Mr. Böhmdorfer, Mrs. Miklauch, has told us today, as a Member of Parliament, quite honestly and intrusively – something we already know – that since the year 2000, has been visible to all, where the development in the Austrian Penal Code goes. We from the SPÖ have been in the Committee, and we have also strongly pointed this out here in the House. Although I consider this extension to be necessary for two years, as an aid to my colleagues in the Austrian judicial institutions, I must also say, Mrs Minister, that in reality this is only a small part, so to speak, a pin head to solve the problems. Together, we must try to get rid of these 105 percent in the Austrian penitentiary system – ladies and gentlemen Böhmdorfer mentioned that before – and so to speak, to normality. Only a few weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen, did I say that the Austrian judicial guard is holding its head for us together, using their lives. For years now we have been discussing all these problems, but you from the government groups are not able to bring about improvement through legal measures! Your policy has failed here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No other expression can be used for this! For five years, there has been a discussion about this – and that, although every specialist, every politician who deals with it, knows exactly what to do. Mrs. Minister, you've seen from the house what to do, but: We cannot discuss forever as our judicial institutions pass away! The 'Quali- Today’s inmates are quite different than before: from mentality, from nationalities, and so on. I'll invite you all to look at this. In reality, the inmates are much more difficult to treat than before. In Austria, justice institutions have not been set up to close them like cages – and no one cares about these people anymore! That's inhuman, that's not true! For five years we have been discussing these problems, and then today we hear things like – we wish it had been implemented for a long time –: We need legislative measures, we need to see that adequate regulations are being made. It does not always have to be locked up, but other penalties could also be imposed. Of course, we also need a place of detention, not a question, but the overdue problem is the implementation of measures alone, Mrs. Minister, where we are going, with regard to § 21 (1) and § 21 (2) StGB. We must accept this issue, because: The judicial institutions are not psychiatry, we all know that. That is to say, there are huge areas of problem in this area. Our colleagueship no longer knows how to deal with this problem – in the interests of public security. You know that, too, Mrs Fekter. Therefore, my urgent appeal to the government groups – I have said it the last time – is: If the Minister helps, otherwise this problem cannot be solved! This is certainly not in the interests of the people concerned and not in the interests of our country. As I said, This alone is too little, but a part – I'm staying back at the “snail head” – is already going in the right direction. That is why our group agrees with this law, but once again the urgent request and invitation to put in place the necessary legislative measures and to try to produce the necessary framework conditions for the organisation, but please not only in one or two years, because – in this we are all agreed – we need this immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19145	Mrs Stadlbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19170	Mr President. Mr. Weinzinger, I'm sorry to have to correct you. They claimed that the city of Vienna had stopped financing an association. – That’s not true! I'm actually correcting: There was an EU project, called SILA, which has never been financially funded by the city of Vienna, but has just been from the EU, an EU project that has run for several years and is now over. There is now a follow-up project, also another EU project, which is called SOPHIE and has the focus on change. Vienna has financed a transitional solution, but both the SILA project and SOPHIE are EU projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19197	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19220	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! With the extension of the extended penalty for minor prison sentences, a practice, a well-functioning solution is extended and continued by two more years. The situation in the prisons has not changed significantly since in-force steps of the Federal Law 2003. The execution facilities still complain of too little space for their prisoners. Although this extension of the time limit does not limit the crime in itself or the small criminality involved, it is true that this extended suspension of the penalty will only be a positive one for both the execution agencies and the perpetrators themselves, because the suspension of the penalty is only possible if the imprisonment is no more than 18 months and this appears more appropriate than the execution – for example, if the convicted person is in an important, seasonal employment relationship, if maintenance obligations of children or caregivers are met, or if the time is needed for the compensation of the damage. Penalties may also be postponed for a period of less than six months, or for the first sentence of less than 12 months. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can agree with this extension of time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19251	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19272	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pendl, we are aware of the problem in the judicial institutions – and therefore there was also a budget increase from 2004 to 2005. Today, however, I would like to deal with the issue of trafficking in human beings and the Additional Protocol on the Prevention, Control and Punishment of Trafficking in Human Beings. I believe that trafficking in human beings is a crime that is one of the most cruel and worst in the field of crime. Sometimes we thought he'd belong to the past, but he'd become more and more up-to-date. The trade in human beings is mainly affecting the poor and the weak in our society worldwide. This is a crime that is committed internationally and must also be fought internationally. Women from Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia in particular are towed, sold and often treated like slaves. And children from all parts of the world are also kidnapped and sold from the point of view of getting a better life. Some people are also kidnapped – and this is a particularly bad crime – and find themselves in a foreign country with missing organs. I think it is important to establish a global standard for crime, for the protection of victims and for the protection of witnesses. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! In Austria, we can say thank God that we are almost not affected by cases of organ trafficking, even from cases of toddler trafficking. But in 2004 in Vienna – only in the Federal Capital! – 240 children, mainly from Romania, who were forced to beg. In 2003, according to the Ministry of the Interior, 236 women were detained in Austria and forced mainly to prostitution. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Ads!]] – These are the proven ads. The number of the dark is certainly higher. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Deeds of criminal perpetrators should surely be prosecuted. But there are not only the perpetrators and those who help, but also those who incite to these deeds. I think that we are all morally required. . Thank you for adopting this law unanimously today.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19309	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Chief. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19330	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Pendl for the fact that, in his speech on the conditions in the judicial service and in the detention centre, he has for the first time also correctly argued that the Federal Minister not only strives to improve these conditions, but now also to discuss modern methods of execution and not only to discuss the extension of the detention area. I therefore believe, Minister of State, that you are on the right track. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now the Additional Protocol on the Prevention, Control and Punishment of Trafficking in Human Beings. I welcome the fact that, after seven years of discussion, which began in 1998, we are going to adopt this Additional Protocol unanimously in Parliament today. I would also like to say once again from the speakers' point of view what I have already said in the Committee. It seems important to me that the necessary change to national legislation for this work is now being speeded up, because there are a number of problems to be solved by the implementation of this ratified UN Convention in national law. This concerns compensation for the victims and the corresponding return of the victims. This also concerns the equipment of those concerned with documents, with new prospects for the future and with a hope for a life in human dignity in a community of solidarity. I also believe that we still have a lot to improve domestically in the victim welfare laws. There is a wide range of NGOs that are already successfully addressing the state in this area and significantly improving the situation of the victims. But I believe that even in the field of psychological and anti-traumatic care, it will be necessary to set even more accents. I believe that those programmes, which have been running as pilot projects in the past and which have brought with them the excellent results in the resocialisation and in the processing of the traumatic experiences of the victims, should not simply be completed without singing and sound, but should be carried on by the Ministry of Women and the Social Affairs, because in this area more can be done simply for the victims than has happened in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, trade in women is always under discussion, but on the other hand trade with children is always under discussion. We should also be prepared in our legislation to meet those organizations that meet the desire of married couples for adoption – there are, at least, between 4,000 and 5,000 couples each year in Austria. Such adoption wishes – finally channelling in such a way that only serious and recognizable organisations interested in child welfare come to the train, and not organisations working on the network of international crime, which are partially abducting children, in order to bring them to the European Union countries for adoption. Perhaps, in this area, one could actually think of giving parents such a kind of seal of quality of organizations that convey exclusively serious children, in order to communicate even from the very beginning interested parents children of organizations who are actually contact persons who work serially and where no child trafficking and trafficking take place. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. May. Worm]] I think it would be time to include and support these suggestions from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Women as a whole. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19390	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 825 of the Supplements. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice for the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50(2). 2 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the rallying of the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language versions must be carried out by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This approval is also granted unanimously. Furthermore, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act, which amends the temporary measures in the field of penalty delay, including the title and receipt in 988 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[18:58:59]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Culture on the Government template (815 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of culture and education (954 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19473	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Wolfmayr spoke. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19500	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement with Croatia, which we all understand in the sense of a cross-border cultural agreement, which will lead to a further artistic exchange, a school, an education, a university exchange and a research and science exchange, facilitate it and further link our countries, is, of course, supported by all of us. In my opinion, however, this agreement is more: It is a sign of an increased exchange of people of different cultures and traditions. It is a sign of a further congregation that grows and thrives under the pattern of cultural agreements. This is one of the paradigms of Austrian cultural policy under Minister Gehrer and under Secretary of State Morak, as I understand it. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the one hand, we have observed and promoted a cultural policy that looks beyond national borders, taking into account characteristics and regional specificities. Internationalization and regionalization – these are not contradictions, they are opposite poles on the same line. And these two points mark the tension of a modern cultural policy. They are demonstrated very well by a gradual shift in priorities, as can be seen, for example, from the 2004 Cultural Report, which we have dealt with recently in the Committee and which is also available to the public virtually. Ladies and gentlemen! Personally I like Focus sets such as those in the field of children's and youth book literature are particularly good. There we have an interface between different areas: art, literary as well as visual, translator art, themes of time, often philosophically packed in a clear language, which, as I know and have experienced, can be a great help for entire immigrant families and not only for the reading children. The Children's and Youth Book Prize will be awarded where the authors have been gathering for decades on reader ice and where this area has found a new home next to Vienna, namely in East Styria. This makes me a native Gleisdorfer of course proud. There is the Ernst-Jandl Prize for Lyrik, which will be awarded at the end of this week in the Magical Neuberg on the Mürz, which is probably suitable for symposia and workshops for the treatment and presentation of Lyrik like few other places in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Each of our federal states now has priority in the cultural field, whether this is electronic music or film, theatre, opera or cabaret, cartoon or lyrics, or whether this is the excellent museums – and me the Federal Museums as well as the Regional Museums. Art has long liberated itself from its attachment to capitals. With the help of modern communication techniques and advertising strategies, the world comes to the citizens. These, in turn, have become flexible and are happy to travel. Cultural tourism is on the increase, as we can see in our cultural capitals. Graz was such an excellent example. But I'm sure Linz will also present himself in its own way, and I'm already looking forward to it. Art therefore flourishes in all the federal states and in the cities. She is constantly developing, she continues to develop. Our cultural policy takes this into account. Especially in times of reduced budgets and economical investments, economic thinking, there are increases, not huge, but increases. Even if you are very happy to assure the public of the opposition by means of number acrobatics or computer interpretations and especially the cultural creators: I claim that our cultural policy is well structured, that it is transparent and comprehensible, that it is a sustainable cultural policy that strives to meet a constantly evolving art scene and cultural scene. I think she's doing very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19561	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19583	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present cultural agreement replaces the existing cultural agreements between Austria and Croatia and regulates the cooperation of institutions of both countries in the fields of culture, in particular art, education, higher education, research, science and youth and sport. I consider cooperation with Croatia in the field of education and culture to be particularly important. It is gratifying that the intensive cultural exchange between Austria and Croatia should be continued and strengthened, as stated by Art State Secretary Morak on the occasion of the signing of this cultural agreement in October 2004. It is important to get to know and understand each other better in order to overcome borders. Fears and prejudices are especially great when you know little about the other or the other. We are therefore very much in favour of the signing of this cultural agreement and of an exchange in the field of culture. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, that we would have a great exchange on culture and art here in plenary. In recent weeks, we have dealt with both the 2003 Cultural Report and the 2004 Art Report in the Cultural Committee. In both reports, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have refused to allow a debate on art and culture in plenary, although there are a number of reports and topics that are contained in these reports that should be discussed. I don't mean the Art History Museum or Director Seipel. That's what we've had today. I don't mean the Causa Wörthersee stage either. I would rather, in general, like to talk about cultural issues, also about why, for example, the expenditure on art has stagnated since 2000. In 2004, €79 million was estimated, and €91 million was still in 1999. The comparison of these sober figures is not sufficient for any comment. One could talk about why, for example, there is no money available, as State Secretary Morak himself says, in order to make accentuations possible within his framework, or why the Secretary of State for Art would like to carry out economic promotion by means of art promotion, for example, by looking at these newly established music funds. Or why, for example, has the museum's evaluation so elegantly passed all the key questions of the museums? So there is a whole host of questions that we should be discussing here in Parliament, but unfortunately the government and the government parties are pressing ahead with the discussion on these issues, at least here in the House. Yes to the Cultural Agreement between Austria and Croatia, but no to your refusal to discuss and to your lack of interest in art and culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19628	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19649	Ladies and gentlemen! You don't really need to lose a lot of words about the cultural agreement, because... – What? [[Abg. Oillinger: This is ready to vote!]] Excuse me, I don't understand! [[Abg. Oillinger: It is ready to vote!]] – It is ready to vote. Yeah, that's right! Everyone agrees, too! Of course I also think it is positive, it promotes European integration and so on and so on. You already know what everyone says that comes to the speaker's desk. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] I would like to say something about the comments made by Mrs Muttonen because she regrets that too little discussion is being made about culture in plenary. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You see: The interest in the debate in plenary is not very great. Who listens to you? – Those who sit in the Cultural Committee anyway and discuss with you there. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] There you can tailor all the topics you always want to tailor, and you have already done so. So there is no dissent from the government parties, there is really enough opportunity in the committees – in the past that was so and will be so in the future – to discuss all the topics of culture and art. I'm already at the end of that. We agree with this agreement and we are pleased that Austria has concluded such an agreement with a country once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19716	The next speaker was Dr Zinggl, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19738	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In fact, this agreement is a more pleasant, more rewarding item of negotiation than the unappropriate Causa Seipel, which we have had to discuss today. And it is no coincidence or at least a happy coincidence that the festival of Croatian music in Vienna in the Albertina, in the University Church, in the Schönberg Center, in the Porgy and Bess and so on will take place this week. Yesterday I had the opportunity to talk to musicians about their problems, and they said the biggest problem is... [[Abg. Faul: The problem is seizel!]] Their biggest problem is the visas that are not or very difficult to get, and the travel restrictions. – I hope that this agreement will significantly improve this point! Secondly, of course, there is also a contribution to the development of culture in the Croatian minority. We know this exchange, which the Croatian folk group operates with Croatia in the field of music, theatre, sport and above all in the field of the ethno scene, whose arrangers act at a very high organizational level, but the whole thing is very, very expensive. This means that while the youth is highly motivated and interested in regular exchange, it lacks money. – I hope that this agreement will help to improve this too! Such agreements promote cooperation with one another while strengthening identity, especially linguistic identity, and so I imagine optimal cultural policy! Of course, these include schools and universities, and if you consider that there are only two assistants who speak Croatian in Austria, then I believe that the removal of restrictions on residence and employment will also take an important step in this area, and hopefully not only on paper. Here, too, little advertising drops can be found in this whole history, because the Commission meets only every four years, and the agreement is limited to five years. This is a small stroke of turtles, but perhaps the Commission can meet more often and spend more than five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19774	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19796	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that this cultural agreement with Croatia is given great approval. Austria has long declared the Balkan countries to be priority areas. We work intensively in the fields of education, higher education and culture. We have launched the so-called Graz process, in which we provide education support for the Balkan countries, and we have also set a focus on the languages of our neighbours and the new Member States. I am particularly pleased that there has been a strong cooperation for years now, that we are setting up a new basis for this cultural agreement and that we will continue this good cooperation in the EU year of the Austrian Presidency. I will invite the ministers of the Balkan countries, including the ministers of the countries which are not yet EU ministers, to a ministerial conference to which we will discuss the new European Higher Education Area and also the new education programmes, because all the Balkan countries can now also participate in these education programmes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am delighted and thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19838	The next speaker was Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19859	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl has already said: ==References====External links== ==References== June, the festival of Croatian music takes place in Vienna. It is a music festival that offers music from all areas, jazz, classicalism, contemporary composition and folklore, and the festival is to become a tradition. This is what those responsible for culture from Croatia who have worked on the new cultural agreement between Croatia and Austria that we will ratify today. This agreement provides, inter alia, for the exchange of art, education and higher education as well as in research and science. Projects are planned to support the promotion of literature, language skills, students and already graduates and researchers in both countries in order to create a European higher education area within the meaning of the Bologna process. Contacts in the field of culture and sport have been going back for a long time. In April 1972, a cooperation was decided in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. When we look back on the success of the women's handball team Hypo-South City, we know how much the Croatians have contributed to this success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With the existence of the independent Republic of Croatia, the desire for a bilateral cultural agreement arose on both the Austrian and Croatian sides, and this was also mentioned. The Croatian Minister of Culture Bozo Biskupic and State Secretary Franz Morakein signed a contract on this project on October of the previous year. According to today's ratification, a mixed cultural commission with representatives of the Chancellor's Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Education on our side will work out projects for the next five years. But I would like to mention something: Many contacts and projects with Croatia have already had a lot of success. For example, I am thinking of the exhibition of Edo Murtic in the Palais Harrachov or the concerts of the Zagreb Philharmonic Orchestra in the Vienna Concert House, where contemporary music by Croatian composer Bozidar Kunz was performed. Especially beautiful – I was there – was also the concert of the Zagreb Radio Orchestra at the Liszthalle in Graz. On the other hand, many Austrians have visited Croatia. In the concert hall Dvorana Lisinski in Zagreb, which, as the artists say, has a particularly good acoustic, there was this April a guest play of the RSO orchestra Vienna, and next year the Wiener Symphoniker will host in Zagreb. So if we ratify the cultural agreement today, there is nothing in the way of further cultural cooperation between the two countries and, as I believe, we can look forward to many beautiful achievements! Another personal thing: I'm married to a Turkovic who got his talent as a musician from both countries, so to speak, and that has been a good result.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19918	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19941	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome the conclusion of this new agreement with Croatia. I think it is very important that this is about direct cooperation, not about cooperation at state level, but about cooperation between people, between schools, sports associations, cultural organisations. I think that is very important and very welcome! I welcome cultural cooperation with countries from Central, Eastern and South-East Europe, countries that are our neighbours or otherwise close to us and are friendlyly connected, in principle. I believe that, in part, people in Austria, but in Western Europe at all, know far too little about these Central, Eastern and South-East European countries. There is too little knowledge here of the achievements and great cultural achievements of these countries, and there is sometimes a lack of appreciation, which is certainly no longer malicious, but because of ignorance. It is therefore so important that there is increased cooperation. I also think that learning languages is very important. It also provides for the promotion of language training under this Agreement. If I notice that even by the National Council Bureau names such as Turkovic, Hlavac or Darabos are sometimes mispronounced, then I actually feel that this is a bit troubling. Since we all have a common past and a common future, I would like to see the same sensitivity in this regard! As I said, I think that what we decide here is very positive, even in view of the fact that we also have a Croatian people's group in Austria. Although the language here has of course developed something different, it is important to keep in touch and maintain cultural life. This also applies to our migrants from Croatia, who are undoubtedly a great enrichment for us. There are therefore many good reasons for this cooperation and for this exchange. I very much hope that this is not a one-sided thing and that the interest is no longer on the Croatian side. I hope that there will also be a corresponding interest from Austria in the cooperation and knowledge of people, and I would therefore like to express my agreement once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e19978	The next speaker was Mr Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20000	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I think Austria can be proud of art and cultural policy in this country. There is no doubt that a rich, highly qualified offer exists in the municipalities, cities and federal states, including massive support and high budget expenditure of the countries, but also of the federal government. I also believe that culture is not suitable for party politics. When I look back at today's urgent request from 3 p.m. on the subject of Art History Museum and Seiel, I think that this is an example of the fact that cultural policy should not be turned away from party politics! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Today, cultural agreements are an essential part of bilateral cooperation in the fields of school, education and higher education, research, culture and art. The first cultural agreement was concluded between Austria and France in 1947. Since then, there have been agreements with 25 countries, including 8 EU Member States. The importance of cultural agreements is undoubtedly that Austria can influence the content, but also the scope of this cultural cooperation with the partner countries and can also take an intensive part in it. Austria and Croatia have so far cooperated on the basis of the cultural agreements concluded with the former Republic of Yugoslavia. The Republic of Croatia is a candidate for accession to the European Union, and therefore, I believe, it is sensible, sensible and exemplary to decide unanimously on this cultural agreement here in the House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20042	The next speaker was Mrs Fleckl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20063	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Kainz! It is not we who do away with cultural policy, but Mr Seipel, who manages the Museum of Art, if he continues to do so! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kainz: Who says that?]] I too welcome the cultural agreement between Austria and Croatia, but as important as it is to me and all of us in this agreement, I am not going to miss out on the intended debate in order to lose a few words on another subject of art, namely on the art report. Unfortunately, this is not dealt with in plenary, the public's suffering. As one of the most important negotiating objects in the Cultural Committee, he is artificially shuddered by the plenary every time. Is it bad conscience, is it fear of criticism, or does the Secretary of State not at all support his art report? But let us take a closer look at the art report, in particular the chapter Cultural Capitals, more precisely the statements on the Capital of Culture 2003 in Graz. The whole thing is mentioned in the art report in praise, in particular the resultant recovery of cultural activities and urban tourism, but about the problems and criticisms that have existed to this end, is once again artificially spread the coat of silence. They speak of sustainability in all areas and of great success. Without a doubt, the cultural project in Graz was a great success. But sustainability has its price! The management of the former 2003-GesmbH estimated annual financial needs only to maintain coordination and marketing measures with €5 million. Who, however, is present for sustainable projects such as the Mur Island or the Kunsthaus, which were created for the year 2003? – Today, the city of Graz has to be caught by itself, and the Secretary of State or the Federation is taking responsibility! If I recall correctly now, the Secretary of State in the Committee has stated on my question: Linz needs support from Graz so that the same mistakes are not made again. – What is the error of the Secretary of State here? That would really interest me! Perhaps the mistake of trusting that promised funding money will then also arrive where they are to get, to the extent promised. In any case, it is a pity that you do not want to debate the art report! I am now concluding that we will very much welcome the cultural agreement between Austria and Croatia and, of course, agree with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20106	The next speaker was Mrs Felzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20127	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fleckl has now mentioned sustainability in the sense of cultural policy. – I say: Look at the instrument of cultural agreements that has been in place for about 60 years now, because it is seen that we cannot be so wrong in relation to sustainable cultural policy. When dealing with Article 6 of the current agreement between the Republics of Austria and Croatia, it can be seen that it also addresses creative sectors such as multimedia, film and photography and associated technologies. . I very much welcome this agreement insofar as it could perhaps be an institutional framework for discussions in the creative economy already started. We were in Croatia, we have discussed very intensively with the creatives, and we have noticed that the Croatians are very interested in hearing how our structures of the creative economy are built and how to organize. For example, one can organize with the chambers, the economy and the state in order to support and promote the creative. I think that's a very exciting topic. In this respect, the Croatians can really take a lot with us, and they are also quite open to receiving this information. As far as creativity is concerned, I must say that the Croatians are certainly in nothing with us! Some agencies have already joined forces from the creative sector. This concerns topics such as education standards, education and training and quality standards, and in this context many contacts were very interested in Austrian solutions and paths. In other words, we can also make a very interesting exchange through this State Treaty in the education sector. I also very much hope that the Commission will take good advantage of this opportunity for a cooperation programme, and I do not doubt that it will set in motion a strategic and very sustainable process. On the part of the creative economy, we definitely offer our cooperation and would be very happy if we could bring something in! Personally, I welcome all efforts to cooperate with Croatia, whether from education policy, cultural policy or from foreign policy. And today we have come a step further! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20174	The next speaker was Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20195	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. If I join the group of congratulators for this agreement, I would like to point out to the Federal Minister that we should not leave it alone in this agreement with Croatia. I have just given Jackie Maier the last figures, the need and the need to conclude such contracts in the new acceding countries, but also in the candidate countries of the other countries, because it must ultimately be the basis for every economic activity to get to know the languages of our partner countries and, ultimately, the cultures there. When I think of Croatia, I really think of the successful Internet projects that we have accompanied together with the students there. Mrs Bundesminister, if we are involved in these art programmes, I have to comment today on a very unsuccessful programme – the Steirers are just sitting there – namely on the agreement with Herberstein. Mr. State Secretary Morak has previously explained to us how important it is to take cultural policy out of the big cities and move it to the small towns – in other words: in a zoo. The new museum with works by Bruno Gironcoli is now in place. This is, of course, justified in the fact that Morak, as the Secretary of State for Culture, has an anti-Vienna syndrome and would like to put everything somewhere, regardless of the fact that, in the end, what he does not understand, tourism is very much connected with cultural policy and that tourism and cultural policy for Vienna are entirely decided. - Good. It is now once this museum in the Tierpark Herberstein. Although we have 200 000 visitors there, Mrs. Federal Minister, it is children and parents who are dealing with the topic of “animal and zoo” in the leisure area. No one's interested in outside, Mrs. Federal Minister, Bruno Gironcoli. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] It's almost a wretched fragility, I want to say, or it's a renunciation to bring children into this museum unprepared. Accordingly, the sound is also appealing. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Mrs Colleague, let us take a look behind the scenes! Today, in the course of the entire Herberstein affair, we know why it happened. Because in close connexion with Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic, the Federal Minister put money in there, pumped into it, which the Mrs. Herbertstein had once again served to continue this operation. That's the real fact! This is a missing cultural policy, which nobody wants out there, which only serves to promote this company, Herberstein, from your side.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20250	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20272	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Somehow I thought of a hearing mistake first, but Mr Faul then said that it was a sense to enjoy the art of Bruno Gironcoli, to deal with her. [[Abg. Faul: For small children!]] First, the little children don't come alone. Secondly, there is an educational programme there. We follow up museum educational initiatives in order to get young men and young women and children into the museum and move to the cultural pleasure, but you come and say that Gironcoli's art is an expression. This reminds me of the comment from the past that cultural policy and cultural evaluation should also be done with home mind. What are those sounds here in this high house? I'm highly irritated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was similar to me yesterday in the Constitutional Committee, where it was said – and this must be done on the tongue – that we in the Causa Kampl – we call it so – should find a regulation so that the party can ensure order and cleanliness. – So these are sounds I at least wanted to evaluate in a different context with more care! So: “Culture policy with house mind”, “Gironcoli is not reasonable”, “the party is the only one that has to ensure order and cleanliness” – I have a bit of a strange feeling in connection with a cultural debate when I hear that. – But let’s leave this now, let’s return to the cultural agreement with Croatia! I do not want to repeat what has already been said positively, but I would like to point out the following: For example, Croatia can also participate in a programme that we call the East Erasmus programme: CEPUS, Central European Exchange Programme for University Studies. In a simple, uncomplicated way, study semesters, scholarship semesters, and shared consumption are exchanged through time and allocation. This is a wonderful programme, which is poor in administration in the sense of little administrative burden. It is also important to ensure that, with the exception of the employment restriction, the flexibility of the exchange will be improved in the future. Research and science can only live through direct communication. With all the Internet and all virtual communication, it also needs the personal encounter. Thank you very much, Mrs Minister, for organizing a ministerial conference for all Balkan countries in the EU Presidency half-year. That's important. The wonderful benefit as a “useless benefit” – I quote now, as it were, my own statements – of culture is quite, very important. This has also been said by my previous speakers. I believe that the planned money – the Federal Chancellor's Office provides €10,000, and your ministry provides €150 000 – is well-designed for financing, for example, the Education Officer in Zagreb and for the exchange of experts and for projects. The programmes and projects, as I know, are regularly evaluated and new programmes are developed in consensus. Congratulation – despite all the unmistakables that in EU policy we must make a turnaround and separate ourselves from enlargement considerations. With this cultural agreement, we are taking the right path, including in EU issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20317	The next item is Mrs Walther's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20341	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am also very pleased about the cultural agreement with Croatia that we are going to decide today, especially because I am a border dweller myself and I am here and there to Zagreb or to Ljubljana to enjoy the culture and the programme offered there and to be pleased that these countries are working very well with us, including in terms of education, science, art and sports. To that end, this agreement is definitely to be welcomed. Speaking of art: The 2004 art report, which was presented very early this year, has already been discussed several times in May, which is to be welcomed. On the other hand, we are sorry that this report is always being completed in the Committee on Culture, so it is not being discussed here in plenary. We would really like to see more transparency, for example by comparing the 2003 and 2004 figures in order to better monitor developments. In the art report we noticed that much was rightly written about the Austrian film, but was spread about a major event of the Austrian film, namely the Diagonal, the coat of silence. We asked Mr Morak why the processes relating to the management of this large-scale Austrian film event, which had to give up after such a short period of time, were not illuminated at all, why this had to be cancelled in its official form and why it did not occur in the report section or in the preface. This is in need of explanation. Similarly, the art report seems to us to be too short to deal with the social situation of artists. Since 2001, freelance artists have been insured as new self-employed and pensioners. The Künstler Social Insurance Act, which entered into force in 2001, provides for grants under certain conditions for pension contributions. These were increased from 872 € to 1 026 € in 2005, which is to be welcomed. Single: The Cultural Council of Austria still sees the work and income situation and thus also the living situation of artists and artists as precarious. We would definitely like to address the legitimate demands of the Austrian Cultural Council to improve the situation of the artists for the next Art Report 2005. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20378	The next item is the speech by Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20399	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The new cultural agreement with Croatia is of course to be welcomed. The intensification of the resulting cooperation in the fields of education, science and culture can only be welcomed, especially as Steirer, because Croatia is one of the so-called future regions for us. But I would also like to address the point that my previous speaker, Mr Faul, has mentioned. It seems that culture is an expression for the colleague Faul. In fact, your speech is an expression! [[Abg. Faul: Because you little children...!]] Yes! But that's exactly how little information you are, because if you had read the study by "Gartler und Partner GmbH" or by Wifo, you would have known how the visitor structures are running, namely: approximately 136 000 visitors are adults and 31,000 visitors are 16 and 17 years old. Where are the little kids? The only thing that this study says about young children or schoolchildren is that they are potential visitors. The Gironcoli Museum is not in Weiz, it is in a region in which there are by chance many ÖVP mayors, and that is the only reason why you are against the location Herberstein, why you are against these jobs there, why you are in principle talking badly about everything that happens in this region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There has not yet been a single word from the SPÖ that one is for projects in this region that one wants to support them. Herberstein is a leading company, a leading project. It's not always pleasant, that's clear, that's at every leading operation. You have the same problems in Weiz. This also applies to Herberstein. But for the region of Hartberg, for the region of Feistritztal – and this still counts your district – it is an insanely important business, with up to 90, with up to 120 jobs. I don't think that can be disputed. There is no way to say that culture is an expression. Small children also have to be led into the final effect of culture, and therefore there is also educational care, so there are also teachers who recognize themselves in this area who are taking this lead with the children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Your statement today about the region around Herberstein, the zoo and the Gironcoli Museum has actually addressed itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20448	The next item is the speech by Mr Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20469	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! It seems to be more and more confirming that the socialists have given up their cultural competence in the pantry. This also proves what I have heard from her side today about regional art promotion. At this point I would like to express my express thanks to the art Secretary Morak, who is finally promoting art in the countries, in the districts, in order to also lead these people to a cultural pleasure, which looks at the fact that not only everything is centrally used but also brought to the regions. Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The present State Treaty requires approval by the National Council and can be implemented immediately. I would like to draw particular attention to the possibilities for cooperation in schools. There is also an explicit exchange of information on new developments in education, and there are indeed many new developments for us Austrians, such as the 5-day week, the comprehensive day care with free choice of parents, the early promotion of language, the intensification of education and the creation of pedagogical universities. There is also a need-oriented teacher training and an improvement in education research. Of course, we are also in the future in favour of a differentiated school system, and in the end this development can also be exchanged with the Croatians. It also provides for the installation of an educational cooperation commissioner and teacher training activities and the dissemination of one's own language in the field of the other Party. I would like to thank very much all those who have contributed to the outcome of this agreement and seek approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20518	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20539	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this new agreement, I would like to refer to Article 7, in which the Parties undertake to support the immediate cultural cooperation of the young people of both countries, using cooperation opportunities as far as possible under the EU programmes. For educational and educational cooperation at the school level, the agreement provides for various measures, such as the exchange of experts and the exchange of information and documentation material. I also mention an example of an Austrian programme. The Dr. Peter-Mahringer Fund invites students from higher schools and students from non-EU countries of Europe, such as Croatia, to inform themselves in Austria about schooling and training standards, cultural peculiarities and social standards, and to establish contacts. The two countries of Austria and Croatia are seeking to promote the knowledge of the culture of each other, to further develop cultural cooperation in all areas and thereby contribute to European cultural identity. These intergovernmental agreements facilitate the conditions for the internation of art and culture and contribute to the development of a democratic society, especially for young countries or EU accession countries. Now also a comment to the address of the SPÖ: I believe the statement that culture is an expression is really self-evident! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20576	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20598	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! After today's debate at the beginning of the plenary day, it is now very gratifying that we can also discuss positive things about the future prospects in the European landscape. Austria has a very large tradition of history in its cooperation with Croatia, and it also says every question of opinion that the Austrians are very positive about this country – including a possible inclusion of Croatia into the European Union. If we decide on this agreement today, we will follow a great tradition that Austria has to show. More than 25 such bilateral agreements already exist: 8 with European countries, 6 on an informal basis. It has already said a lot about the objectives of this agreement in this discussion. The cultural arch spreads from various exhibition offerings to 146 museums with more than 5 million art exhibits. This is a basis on which we can build in this cooperation. However, I also feel that the offer to cooperate more closely in the field of education is very important. Currently there are 2,534 students with Croatian language who have accepted this offer. A European perspective on the possible integration of Croatia into the EU would also mean a great opportunity for the European, especially for the Austrian economic area. In the cultural field, Croatia, of course, has contributed a great deal to the fact that, due to its ethnic composition in its centuries of history under Ottoman influence, but also under the Austrian influence from the period of monarchy, these countries, although culturally different, have grown together. Our task will be – and there is, I hope, ice-difference in this vote – that we will continue this successful path of these two countries in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20640	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Culture to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 815 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted with unanimity. [[19:48:42]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Request of Members Dr. Josef Cap, colleagues concerning a federal law establishing the Federal Law on the Enforced Partnership (EP-G), as well as the General Civil Code, the Person Status Act, the Marriage Law, the Criminal Code, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act (582/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20686	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20714	Mr President. High house! There is a SPÖ application for a registered partnership. For the first time, there is a bill drawn up in a decision-making capacity by an Austrian parliamentary party on the equality of homosexual partnerships. The aim of this legislative initiative is to combat discrimination against gender equality. It is important to set up an initiative in the field of civil and family law. It is intended to eliminate the intolerable state that even-sex couples in Austria are still considered as strangers before the law. Yes, the relationship is usually not even considered a nonmarital community! Since the same-sex partners are not covered by the legal concept of family members, they have no legal right to visit and information in the hospital, for example, no legal right to enter a rental contract at lifetime, no legal inheritance right. They are subject to exorbitant higher inheritance and gift taxes, their partnership is not taken into account in income tax, and there are many more discriminations. I would like to suggest that there was a vote last Sunday in Switzerland, in which a clear majority of 58 percent voted in favour of the registered partnership for homosexuals. By the way, similar laws already exist in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Greenland, Iceland, the Netherlands, Germany, Finland, Great Britain and recently also in Switzerland. What is particularly important is that an initiative has now been launched in Spain under the Zapatero government and that the House has already decided to present it. This is a special feature that must be highlighted especially in deep Catholic Spain with its tradition, especially religious tradition. I would like to express another point of view to the parties here in the House, which have so far raised concerns. This seems primarily to be the ÖVP, also the BZÖ, mostly with the argument that this was a depreciation of marriage. I believe that this is certainly not the case because the end of discrimination against homosexuals and the introduction of the registered partnership in no way devalues the institution of marriage. The high divorce rates already exist, they have nothing to do with them. I believe that there is no connection here, and that would actually be soluble as an argument, also connected with some legalistic argument that the judicial committee could debate and clarify. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links==* Official website The century continues, perhaps even wants to revive, and if one does not declare itself ready for a more open, modern society, which is characterized by the diversity of its life forms and by non-discrimination of social minorities – but these are very strong minorities. That is why I am in favour of us having a very open discussion here that is moving at a political level and at a legal level. We are proud that we have this ready-made, decisive legislative proposal here, and we hope that it will really be treated and discussed seriously, so that there is the opportunity to lead it, like in other European countries, to a decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20759	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Fekter. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20780	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The present application is, in particular, Article 1: Federal Law on the registered partnership. Since it is established here that it is a partnership of equal partners, and then in the legal effects, in the legal consequences, that it is established that it is all the personal legal effects laid down by the federal law between the spouses of a marriage and all the legal effects of a marriage as a result of the federal law. Marriage-related legal consequences – in particular in accordance with ABGB, marital law and its associated secondary laws – and should take place here, would it have been more fair to say: We want gay and lesbian marriages. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You don't want anything! That's the problem!]] Mr Cap, my group cannot imagine a gay and lesbian marriage with all legal consequences currently reserved for marriage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: What else you can't imagine!]] At the same time, however, this draft also means a general equality, with an equality clause, at the level of non-marital, formless communities and life partnerships. Since, Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP can very well imagine that, in terms of discriminatory provisions – where only different sexual, i.e. heterosexual communities and life partnerships are normized by law – the communities are equal to the partnerships. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: “Suggestions”!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: How are your suggestions?]] The proposals have been in place for about a three-quarters of a year, that in those provisions in the laws in which “heterosexual life-partners”, “life-society”, “ehelike community”, “life-partnerships”, the discriminatory provisions are dissolved and that there is a homosexual community as well as a heterosexual one. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... introduce!]] I admit, of course, that is not so large in this regard. But you wanted an objective discussion. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But you didn't make a request!]] Marriage: No. Life Partnership: We are not treated as discriminating with us, both for heterosexual and for homosexual partners, we can imagine that.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20903	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20924	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can make it short: I agree with what Mrs Fekter said, in principle, indeed overall. I can say to what you said, Dr. Cap, in the light of what I believe as a judicial politician, that, in any case, a certain degree of legal peace needs to be achieved for certain situations that arise frequently and which are making difficulties in the legal order. We experience this in a much more intensive way in the various sexes of life. Many people live “variously ” together in a community of life, they have children, their own and from their first relationship, from previous marriages and so on, and this results in many legal problems, much more than you have basically indicated today. For the lawyers, I say, it is incredibly difficult for the courts to clarify, in the event of the dissolution of these communities of life between man and woman who are not married, above all the property situation. This is where we have failed to pick up. If we repeat the missed here, then there may be – I do not dispute – aspects for other communities of life: between man and man and woman and woman. But we are not yet so far in the legal debate and also in the social debate as a whole, to be able to really properly, dogmatically, and clarify it. I would suggest that the discussion should be focused primarily on how to regulate these different sexes, and that it should also be considered whether it is necessary for spouses who are married, that is, husband and wife, if they really want to clarify or regulate their property situation, to decide to complete a very expensive notarial act, because we have an overregulation in the area of family law with the married people, where they no longer have a notarial act, but we have no regulation at all in the various sexes, although we urgently need it there; and we do not have any regulation for the same-sex where we may need it in the future. It is certain that we can now conclude property contracts between man and man and woman and woman, but, all legal users will confirm this, no real need will be filed in this respect. In the lawyer's office, in the notarial practice or anywhere else, you'll actually find no one coming and saying: We are man and man and want to live together, or we are wife and wife and want to live together, please conclude an optimal contract for our property needs and the arbitrary dispute for us. That means you are, I think, presupposed with this request. One should once repeat what is to be recovered here, namely primarily the different sex communities with a proper legal framework, and then one can slowly talk about the same sex communities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20966	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e20988	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Böhmdorfer, it is already amazing that you are now blaming the SPÖ that it is “presumptuous”. Normally, we always hear from the government groups, we – that is, the opposition, both parties – make no proposals, there are no proposals, there is nothing specific. Now the SPÖ is bringing in a very concrete bill, and then it is “preached ” again. So what do you want from the opposition now? - Sure it's not. At any rate, I am glad that the SPÖ has tabled this proposal. It is not possible to talk about ‘presiding’ after this issue has been discussed for years and there is nothing here from the government groups. That is why I would like to thank the SPÖ for this proposal, which I think is very positive. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In terms of content, we Greens have a slightly different idea. In the near future, we will put in place a legislative proposal for our model of a civil pact, a zip. To explain briefly the difference: A registered partnership, as the SPÖ proposes, is one that provides for the same rights for lesbians and gays, but in that case leaves the marriage untouched, and the marriage remains reserved for the heterosexual couples. We have always found a law of our own, so to speak, a special law for lesbians and gays we do not want. That's what I say myself as a lesbian: I don't want a law of my own. If, then, we want something that applies to everyone, to lesbians, to gays and to heteros. That is why our proposal, which we announced last year, is now working on the precise bill – will be a civil pact, a zip that applies to lesbians, gays, heteros and heteras. But at the same time – and our motto is now: “Zipping and marriage for all” – it is also about getting married for lesbians and gays. Since I know the majority relationships here, I have to say that is not something that will happen tomorrow, and not tomorrow at all. But after all, these will be the proposals. However, I also know that despite the small differences that exist here between SPÖ and Greens, we want to do the same, namely an end to discrimination. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is also the really big difference between red and green and red and black-blue orange, or whatever colors. You do not intend to remove these discriminations in Bälde – at some point, but at least not now – but you continue to discriminate. Mrs Fekter, you have repeated today – including Mr Böhmdorfer – that there have been ‘technical problems’. You just said that to the APA. That you have a three-quarters of years of technical problems, legal problems, so that these mini-equilibrium measures, as far as the heterosexual and homosexual communities are concerned, fail in technical problems, you tell someone else, but not this House! [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes! At the ÖVP!]] Because that's really just unbelievable. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The credibility of a government party that has been – how many years are it now? – is soon 20 years to the government, which says she is unable, for technical reasons, to prepare a few mini-law amendments in a three-quarters of a year – Mrs Fekter, please don't tell us. Whoever, but not this high house! This is simply unbelievable and far-reaching, it's a poverty certificate for the ÖVP. I can just hold on: Apparently the ÖVP tip here is not yet in 21. ==References== [[Abg. Grandruck: Not just the top!]] If you don't count to the top, that's okay. But I know, for example, from the Styrian clubman Drexler that he sees this completely differently. He even welcomed the SPÖ proposal, so I would like him to say something more in the ÖVP. So take note – you too, Mr Böhmdorfer, because you have said that we are not yet so far so far as social policy is concerned: In Switzerland is almost a week ago, it was this Sunday, a referendum of 58 per cent per legal equality for lesbians and gays – in Switzerland! I don't know if I would necessarily make a referendum on this issue in Austria, but imagine that in Switzerland it was positive! In Austria last year, the surveys were 63 per cent per year, so maybe – I dare even say: pretty sure – the population is more than you are. Take note of this! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Take note, too, that in Catholic Spain – if we already want to bring religion here; see, this has something to do with it – the majority of the population for the introduction of marriage – E-H-E! – for lesbians and gays, including adoption, is not only of stepchildren, but of foreign children. [[Abg. Großruck: A socialist government! Against the Catholic Church!]] Perhaps find out. She once joined the Catholics – not necessarily with the People's Party, but with others in Spain – as they perceive it and why so many are there for it. Something has not yet arrived at your consent that exists in the population. But I can tell you one thing: The tooth of time also sleeps on your human rights misconceptions. [[Abg. Oils: In the ÖVP!]] At some point he will also bring down this resistance that you have. I hope that's the case soon!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21096	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21118	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The forms of family cohabitation have changed considerably over the last decades. Even if some on the right do not want to be true of this house: Marriage has long lost its monopoly and is only one of many different forms of living together. However, the rule of law ignores this fact and is still lagging behind the development of society, with the consequence that non-marital partners continue to be considered strangers before the law. Here I refer to equal sex and different sexual communities, with at least a fragmentary recognition for different sexes, although very often only to the detriment of life partners, such as the basis for calculating emergency aid or other social benefits. But the fact is that different sexual partners and partners are moving in a legal vacuum, and in practice this has fatal consequences for those affected. Col. Böhmdorfer has already made it seem that he also knows such cases from his lawyer's practice, only he appears to have no need for action. It has already been said that there is no legal inheritance right. I'd like to make this clear. Even if the partners have been living together for decades, the state's right of home comes before the other gets something, or it inherits any distant relatives. Own contributions to the building up of the assets would have to be charged with great difficulties in demonstrating. There is no legal premise either, so that the surviving companion would have to leave the shared dwelling immediately and leave the entire household council. I have really seen tragic cases in the advisory body in which I work volunteering, and legal assistance for those affected is hardly available, they become social cases. If lifemates are considered testamentary or by gift, the inheritance tax can be up to 60 percent. There is also no Maintenance claim and no related entitlement to survivors. In the event of a breach of the community, the jointly acquired assets or joint debts shall be divided according to economic law, not by family law, as in the case of matrimonial law. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a wealth of injustices between marital and immoral societies. Mrs Fekter, there would be nothing but equal for all, and this would be absolutely insufficient. Several genders have at least the theoretical possibility of marriage; Same-sexs do not have this and are forced to live in this legal vacuum. Therefore, a suitable solution for the same sex is particularly urgent, because they have nothing else. I really ask you to take this into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21163	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 582/A to the Committee on Justice. [[20:10:04]] 12. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Sabine Mandak, Members of the European Parliament concerning a federal law ensuring the inclusion of benefits under the Childcare Act in the calculation of weekly allowances (591/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21202	We're on the 12th. The item on the agenda and the debate. First speaker is Mrs Mandak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21227	Mr President. High house! We have the present proposal on 12 November. ==References== I am aware that we will be discussing this issue tomorrow. I would nevertheless like to make a brief comment on this point today. It is about mothers who receive child care benefits being short-time and then getting a child again, currently being treated very unevenly. All those who are not employed between two children receive a weekly allowance, which is equal to the amount of childcare allowance plus 80 percent. For all those who are in short term employment, there has been an amended calculation which has been very much at the expense of the women concerned. There are extremes that have gratefully shown the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers, where the weekly allowance per day has fallen to 57 cents, thus reaching a very ridiculous height. I don't want to say that was the intention. – This is explained so far: It was a mistake in the legislative changes. Nevertheless, it happened. What I think is a pity and what is also annoying me a lot is that it is obviously not possible for an opposition party to make a request and the government parties say: Yes, this is a sensible, good request, which we accept!, but you will just be submitting the request from your side tomorrow. That's a shame. In my opinion, it is a sign of political culture. In discussions, the question arises again and again as to how political work goes. I can only repeatedly point out that it really happens all the sacred times once that you are willing to accept, accept and support a request from the opposition. I think this is very bad and I very much hope that this unculture will end and that a more democratic form of political work will be possible once Greens take over government responsibility. Now it's just happened that you've gotten into a twinkling mill: It was clear to you that you cannot reject content because, at the present time, there is a blatant abuse at the expense of women, but on the other hand, you simply did not want the application to be accepted. We must take note of this. I would like to tell you today that tomorrow we will also put forward a motion for a resolution on the law which you have tabled, which means that the women affected by this change of law are to be agreed that an information requirement is therefore to be established. – We will request that tomorrow. This is not included as a duty in the present draft law. However, we absolutely want this because we do not think it is possible to see why women – in the truest sense of the word – should pay the bill for the fact that an error has occurred at the administrative level or also at the political level. Again: We don't want to suggest that the intention was, but it did come that way. That is why we will have this request tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21275	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21296	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is true that this request was made by the Greens and the colleague Mandak on 12 February. April of this year brought here in the house. It concerns, as has been said, the inclusion of benefits under the Childcare Act in the calculation of weekly allowance. Within three months you can apply for a first reading. That is the right, and it is also desirable, because it is in itself good that the matter is highlighted and now also corrected. However, I would like to say: Of course, there will always be individual cases in the legislation, where it is only in practice that one learns whether the law can then be implemented or whether there is a gap. I really want to point out that this is certainly not just a problem in the family sector, but that the same is finally happening in every government and in every area. I would like to say that this government has worked well with Haubner and in the end with both Federal Ministers. After all, it is also the task of a workers' chamber and other institutions to show this, because they also get good money for their work and do not necessarily always have to put it in advertising for a party, but can also use it for good things that can then be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinsch-Hosek.]] That means that this government has worked well. And all those who were in the Committee know that at the last meeting we decided that this would be a plenary session tomorrow and that this measure would be adopted by 1. July 2005 – with retroactive validity – enters into force, in the sense of justice for all mothers, whether full-house women, employed, self-employed or self-employed. Ladies and gentlemen on the part of the Greens! I would therefore ask you to withdraw this request, especially since the amendment is already being made and this law gap is still being closed during this plenary session.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21342	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21363	Ladies and gentlemen! It is good, right and important that this gap with regard to weekly and child benefits, which is also addressed in the request of the Greens, Mr Mandak, will be closed tomorrow. It is thanks to the Chamber of Workers who has drawn our attention to it. The Vienna Chamber of Workers has already drawn the women's minister's attention to this abuse in writing over a year ago. It is, unfortunately, significant for the non-existent activity of the Minister for Women that she has not taken care of this problem at all. Only when, in spring of this year, the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers went to the public with drastic real examples, did one wake up from the government parties and accept this problem. It makes sense, and I support Mr Mandak's suggestion that tomorrow we will not only adopt this law but also inform those concerned that they now have this claim. In addition, there are also other urgent needs for action or changes in childcare allowance. They always comfort us with the evaluation that is taking place. An interim report on the evaluation of child benefits has now been presented, which is a pure relief. Only satisfactions are described “at random”, and “at random” is said to be no dissatisfaction, according to this evaluation. However, we know from many discussions and also from many surveys that there is a need for action and improvement opportunities. In this context, I would just like to draw up one of which we all know, namely the problem of the limit of merit. While there have been some things that have been done to avoid extreme hardships in terms of repayments, there is still a lack of a clean legal solution. There is a proposal in the SPÖ model, which aims to ensure that there is either a commitment limit to child benefit, about which one still needs to talk, according to the model as it now exists, or that there is no confidence limit and more possibility of design and choice for those concerned, according to our conceptions by two-fifths. So it is a good thing that this gap is closed. In reality, however, we should address the next gap, because there is enough need for improvement. We should immediately tackle the next difficulties in connection with child money.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21406	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21430	Mr President. High house! All the political groups agree that there has been a lack of legislation here, which cannot be desired and of course would not have been desired. It thus testifies to a good distribution of roles that the workers' chamber has revealed these things. Of course, it is not up to the government to blame. ==References== In May in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted a resolution on this legislative deficit in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. On the question of the extent to which the child care allowance meets the needs of women, we have a constantly contradictory opinion, and here I also deposit our: We learn from surveys – I can tell you, even from personal discussions – again and again how many women enjoy the opportunity to really get themselves under some sort of sound economic conditions, agreed with the husband – even that is possible – to enjoy a time of child rearing with their little children. I would also like to point out to you, Mrs Kuntzl, that, in contrast to the care allowance, the child care allowance makes it possible to earn money and actually shows in the surveys that it is being used. However, I do not hide that the liberal position from the beginning was not at all to allow a limit of merit, and that goal is still being sought by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21455	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21477	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The childcare allowance is so widely accepted because people need it and because it directly helps mothers or fathers. Although the opposition parties voted against: This childcare allowance is effective – politically and in population statistics. The birth rate is rising, and that is certainly not a coincidence. As with any good thing, smaller gaps can occur in practice. We have responded very quickly to the gap between child care and the weekly allowance, and the solution proposed by the Greens will be dealt with in plenary tomorrow, as we have already heard today. However, I am surprised that the Greens are suddenly so interested in this childcare allowance, because until now I have always heard that this childcare allowance is driving the women back to the stove. [[Abg. Mandak: This is about weekly money!]] - I know. [[Abg. Elder: Incorrect topic! It's about weekly money!]] We have responded very quickly to the gap between the childcare allowance and the weekly allowance, and you have always meant that this childcare allowance drives women back to the stove or that this money pushes women out of the work process. [[Abg. Mandak: This is the weekly fee for the application!]] I am of course pleased with your request, Mrs Mandak. He's just coming a little too late. [[Abg. Mandak: No! He was there first!]] Obviously you realize at last that child care money is a real help for mothers and parents.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21596	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 591/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[20:23:23]] 13. Point First reading: Request by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, colleagues on a federal law amending the IAF Service GmbH Act (IAFG) (593/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21635	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21662	Mr President. High house! After 5,7 billion € were removed from the insolvency fee fund in the years 2000 and 2001 and thus amounted to a gap of 1.4 billion € in the insolvency fee fund, you decided to transfer the insolvency fee insurance from the federal administration to the newly founded IAF-Service GmbH. The Court of Auditors has held that there is no calculation and that the exclusion would not automatically increase the efficiency or permit of this organisation. We have also expressed our views on the question of dissemination at the time, and have tabled requests to improve the situation, but they have not found the approval of the government parties in this House. However, the IAFG's draft provided that at least the employees of the company had the collective contractual capacity. This possibility no longer existed in the last version of the Government template. The employees were promised a collective contract for all distributed enterprises. However, it has only remained with a lip confession, until today nothing has happened. I admit that it would have been preferable if we had found a general arrangement for all distributed establishments and would have preferred collective contract protection for workers as a whole. With our request, we now at least want to make repairs for the insolvency fee scheme and for IAF-Service GmbH, so that there are at least three of them for the employee groups – and there are already three of them within this GmbH – collective contractual arrangements in terms of holiday payment, remuneration and the like. I very much hope that it is possible for us to reach an agreement on this point in this House, since you have at least planned this in the draft assessment itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21714	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21735	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The proposal before us, presented by Mr Silhavy, is intended to enable us to conclude a collective agreement. What is the starting point? – As has already been explained, IAF-Service GmbH is a distributed company of the federal government. Of my knowledge 133 staff are provided for about 30 for these requirements, because among these officials there are also officials or contract staff who are covered by civil servants' or contract staff' rights. Of course, each or every staff member has the right to be treated equally in the holding. The Works Council is also committed to a system at the operational level, as is probably known to colleagues in social democracy. In addition, an attempt was made to apply the AMS collective agreement, but this was rejected by the Federal Association Office. Mr Silhavy, what you have proposed as a legislative text, describes a number of things that are also regulated by the Labour Constitution Act. However, this request is not appropriate to achieve the stated objective for these around 30 staff. To express it a little carefully and not to call it “diletantic”: There was no careful work. [[Abg. Silhavy: It was your own draft, Mrs Riener!]] I can assure you, however, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: The ÖVP under Wolfgang Schüssel and with GÖD chairman Fritz Neugebauerbekent joins the social partners, and also in Styria with head of state Waltraud Klasnic and personnel councillor Hermann Schützenhofer confess to this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can say that very well as a staff representative, because I experience this during the negotiations. However, I am convinced that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will make appropriate proposals in the Committee in order to achieve a good solution for the staff, because the EIA has always been and always is a guarantee of good solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21810	The next speaker was Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21832	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Silhavy, I am of course in favour of the interests of the group concerned as an employee representative. It was said correctly: In 2001, the insolvency compensation fund was divided into a new organisation to save costs, which was important and correct, as my previous speaker said. It's about 100 people. These include officials and contract staff covered by a special scheme, leaving a total of about 30 people. Whether to make a collective agreement for 30 people is still to be discussed in the Committee. In addition, the staff representative has already become active there and has already negotiated an operating agreement in agreement with the Management Board and the Works Council on internal salary schemes with a premium system. [[Abg. Silhavy:... Collective contract!]] Mrs Colleague, keep your peace and quiet! We will discuss this in the Committee and we will come to a good solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21881	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21903	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the sake of the classification, we would agree to Mr Silhavy's request without debate, because he is simply a matter of course, and that also changes your desperate attempt to simulate some kind of interest or participation. What you have criticized on the request was the subject of an application that you yourself have submitted. This passage was then stretched out. So you really have to ask yourself whether the EIA, whether the government parties are always working so well.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21927	The next speaker was Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21948	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! According to a report published in the press of 12. April this year, around 89 percent of employees in Austria do not have clear rules such as minimum wages or collective contracts, 11 percent. This also includes a part of the employees of IAF-Service GmbH. I think it is precisely because of this that we should seriously consider getting clarification here. There are, for example, blatant inequalities in pay. If Mr Walch has quoted the works council here, I have to say that can only be from the hearsay. [[Abg. Walch: Have you been there?]] I called him one and a half hours ago, and he told me exactly what was going on there. One is looking forward to the approval that will come from all parties, for that is how it seems to be, even though the side panel always comes from you. It is clear that there are 60 officials employed, 16 contract staff and 40 employees under a private contract. That's the problem there. As the insolvencys have unfortunately not become less, but more, the trend among contract workers is also increasing. So it will not remain 40, but it will be more. Therefore, I think, one should already see that they also receive legally binding salary schemes that they have a clear right to special benefits which they do not have now. There is still the local wage after the ABGB. If the Trade Union of Public Service conducts very successful wage compensation negotiations for officials and contract staff, these employees only have a share on a voluntary basis. In all these things, the employees there depend on the good will of the managing directors, and I think that is not necessarily a good solution. Therefore, a collective contractual capacity in this area would be quite welcome. When you remember: It has been announced by Riess-Passer, Vice-Chairman of the time, to make a general collective contract for all distributed companies. Unfortunately, that did not happen. Ladies and gentlemen, the insolvency has become, as has been said, no less, but more. People do very good work there, do good work with Bravour in the interests of the employees concerned, but also the service provider, and therefore it would be a major improvement if you took this request into account and supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e21988	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 593/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[20:33:50]] 14. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Consumer Protection Act (510/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22027	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Maier.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22055	Mr President. High house! With the present proposal, we want to give a higher priority to consumer affairs in this House and in general to the public. What's this about? – It is a question of creating a Consumer Protection Council through the revision of the Consumer Protection Act, which is a follow-up to the Data Protection Council. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You know how the Data Protection Council works. He advises the Federal Government, as well as other local authorities on data protection issues. I myself am in this committee of vice-presidents, and very often we are able to amend government documents accordingly by means of very well-founded opinions, so that we also have amendments. This has already been the case at the time of the great coalition, and it is still so today. We are now trying to achieve exactly the same in consumer matters, because we see problems here. We have a competence problem in Austria. Consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter, anchored in any form in all ministries, and there is no coordination. There are Federal Ministries in which consumer interests play a positive role in which consumer sectors have a particular role, and other federal ministries in which there is no such role. I am thinking – and I say so quite openly – of the Ministry of Finance in particular: This does not take into account basic consumer interests in legislative projects. We expect the establishment of this Consumer Protection Council to advise its members as an independent advisory body, on the one hand, the Federal Government, as well as members of the Federal Government as well as other local authorities on consumer matters. It should be a matter of this House that we deal with it. After all, we should all keep in mind: Every voters, ladies and gentlemen, is also consumers, and we should take consumer concerns seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22094	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22115	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, we are taking consumer affairs very seriously. With the present proposal – you have explained it – you request a Consumer Protection Council to amend the Consumer Protection Act. - Nice. My group is in principle opposed to the establishment of such a Council because the tasks of the Consumer Protection Act in the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations are very well abolished. A total of five departments and 25 employees are involved in this, entrusted with consumer protection, half of which are equipped with legal expertise. By the way, you have done it, consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter, so that the consumer protection section is primarily responsible for coordinating this area. Since 1970 consumer protection has also been a public task. If it were initial, you know that, because you are constantly dealing with it, price quotations or product information, then the areas of activity are much more extensive today. Proposals and draft laws and regulations will be drawn up to set up initiatives in key consumer policy areas. The Consumer Protection Section is also involved in the review process, it is also given an opinion on laws and regulations of other ministries. They work closely with the other departments and, of course, with the social partners. Close cooperation also exists with the Consumer Information Association, which conducts processes if necessary, or joint association complaints are also prepared. Do you want to question the use of the employees of the Consumer Protection Section or the Consumer Information Association? Or, Mr Maier, would you like to call into question the cooperation or the work of the Chamber of Workers, which is active in the service of consumer protection on a daily basis, which poses enough complaints which represent consumers and which are also close to you? In addition, we should not forget that laws relating to consumer protection come from the European Union. And by the way, Mr Maier, you are the most expensive Members anyway, because you ask most of the questions, and the answers to questions give us enough information and justification, so that we can already have the confidence that we can handle this in this House and fulfil our task as well. [[Abg. May. Worm: This is democracy, and that is a political right!]] Therefore, from our point of view, it is not necessary to introduce a Consumer Protection Council and thus to introduce an additional level.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22195	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22216	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to deal with this proposal by Mr Johann Maier on the creation of a Consumer Advisory Council. Mr Maier. As the head of consumer protection of the Chamber of Labour Salzburg, you should know that in Austria, the Chamber of Workers also gives many opinions for the consumer protection sector. So that point, which is cited here as a explanatory statement, is at least not applicable in many areas. I can't remember that, for example, in the field of consumer protection/auto, ARBÖ or ÖAMTC would have ever been silent if applications had to be discussed from the Ministry of Transport or if tariff increases and tax increases in the fuel sector had come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. However, what is right, Mr Maier, is that the European level has a common platform and here in Austria is not a suitable platform, which always causes significant problems in negotiations at European level. I therefore believe that this proposal to create more bureaucracy and a further body is not suitable because the materials are not comparable to the Data Protection Council. That's the wrong approach. The right approach should be to finally bring together and concentrate the fragmented matter of consumer protection in Austria legally and legislatively and then to give a stronger position from this area of consumer protection. This request reminds me that, in a fragmented legal situation, one does not create legal clarity and legal overview, but rather wants to set up a decision-making court council. The basic considerations are quite in line with the system and can also be understood by my group. But I think that the proposed and outlined way is wrong. The right way would be to present a uniform and clear consumer right for all citizens in such a way that it is no longer a fragmented cross-sectional matter but a consumer law, that the citizen can also understand, handle and enforce.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22258	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22280	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My friend, Mr Vorsprecher! It is also about citizens inside, as well as – my colleague Mr Maier – it is also about voters who absolutely need consumer protection to a greater extent, and therefore, especially with regard to this female population group, I am totally incomprehensible of what my colleague Tamandl has done. – Mrs Colleague! I don't think you're familiar with the matter yet. Their argument went completely beyond the situation. You don't know yet that at ministerial level, we really have a pure particle matter in the field of consumer protection. Mr President, you are right: We need by law a compendium, a legal overall work of art that promotes consumer protection at different civil and other legal levels. The workers' chamber can't do that. On the one hand, the legal authority and on the other hand this Parliament are very likely to be the driving force behind the legal system. As an additional driving force, we need to bring together and, so to speak, to the overall view of consumer protection agents, we also need experts, we need men and women, who are available in advisory form. We have heard that the Data Protection Advisory Board actively participates in the “legislative life” and makes good proposals. Why Defend Are you taking this positive approach, this constructive approach to consumer protection? This is not understandable to me, not to mention the fact that there has already been such a thing at the social security level in the 1970s, namely the Consumer Policy Advisory Council, and that you, the government parties since 2000, have abolished it! He's not been called up anymore, he's practically abolished. In my opinion, this is the clearest sign of how much you split consumer protection matters not only from the resorts, but also from the weighting in the form of the advisory council into the distance. That is why I support Mr Maier's request to become active again and to establish a Consumer Protection Council based on the guidance of the Data Protection Council. Finally, once again, a clear signal from this Parliament for consumer protection must be sent to voters, to citizens, especially consumers. I do not need to tell you about the individual areas, Mr President. They were themselves active in this area. However, there is only the competence of product safety in the social sector in which these departments are currently located. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, no longer have competence at that time, and your successor, Mrs Haubner, is no longer competent. If you look at how much is in the economic sector, what is in the judicial community, and what is even broken in other areas – perhaps also in the environmental field, in the health sector – of consumer protection matters in some respects, then you understand the need and the plea that we finally need this advisory board. In this sense, I would ask you to negotiate this proposal from Mr Maier very soon and to put it on the agenda very soon in the relevant committees – I think it is more than one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22331	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with request 510/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-06-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00112_d7e22361	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 635/A (E) to 639/A (E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3102/J to 3123/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 9. June 2005, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting will be started at Question Time. The sitting is closed.
