ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2076	The meeting was opened. Deputies Dr. Fassleven, Schieder and Dr. Gabriela Moser are reported as prevented. [[09:00:14]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2110	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a short debate on the response to the question 2383/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2244	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 2383/AB of Question No 2416/J by Mr Parnigoni, colleagues on actual staff positions in the Executive, Stand 1. December 2004 to be held by the Federal Minister for the Interior. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (830, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2006 (Federal Finance Act 2006 – BFG 2006) together with investments (840 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2268	Let's go into the agenda. The report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template (830 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act 2006 and Investments (840 of the Supplements). Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2287	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ is proposed, which results in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 minutes and Green 117 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the Secretary of State responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. The term of office of non-governmental government members or State Secretary shall at any rate be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. Whoever agrees, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This sign is done unanimously. The honourable Member, Schultes, is also in agreement with his position. We shall therefore proceed in this way. [[09:02:20]] Advisory Group VIII Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management Chapter 61: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2338	We shall now proceed to the negotiation of the Advisory Group VIII: Agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Its welcome time is 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2375	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Welcome to this day 2 of the coalition-new, the coalition black-blue-orange. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I'm excited how far this day counter will go up to whether it's going to become two-digit. God may protect Austria from becoming three-digit in the end. Today, as yesterday, we will deal with the budget and ask ourselves: [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Think of Carinthia!]] Does it make sense, this budget is indeed a basis for the work of this Kasperl Theatre, as it was mentioned several times yesterday, or is it not pure macular? – Ladies and gentlemen! Let us look at the suspicion that you have threatened us, and in particular at the budget for agriculture. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Federal Minister! The Committee's discussion was by no means sufficient. The written questions you have answered, the oral questions made in the second round, you have promised to answer, but the answers to these questions have remained largely due to you. I asked you, Mr Federal Minister, how you want to deal with the water law law in the future, with groundwater renovation. - You didn't answer this question. I asked you what your point of view on the collection of manure in Salzburg is. – You did not answer this question either. Parliament should, however, be a place of exchange of views in speech and opposition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once again – not to say: as always – agriculture is one of the winners of this budget. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] This could be quite positive if it were not just a few chosen winners who are more fortunate. The small farmers, the auxiliary farmers, who, like most of the Austrian population, are among the losers of your politics! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The small farmers, dear friends, notice that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The dissatisfaction with the expropriation you have carried out with the agricultural reform is great. To remember: The area premium remains with the operator – the owner was expropriated. [[Abg. Grill: Perfect!]] Usually, the big ones have: The Big Ones Win, the Little Ones Lose! This should remain the case, the Federal Minister writes to us: Austria has opted for the historical model. – The Farmers' Federation has opted for the historical model, for an ore-conservative model. And the threat, that it may remain, is a mighty one. But you get pretty slowly presented the bill for this. You have – not yet in percentages, not yet! – in the elections to the Chamber of Agriculture, see how individual municipalities have chosen. [[Abg. Grill: In Lower Austria!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Schultes! You talked big about Poysdorf. [[Abg. Friend: He won!]] Poysdorf has a minus of 806 votes to 615 votes, 25 percent less for the Farmers' Federation alone in Poysdorf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friend]] That's the bill you owe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This policy: Everything for the big, nothing for the little ones! We are not going to vote for this budget either.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2518	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2540	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you have breakfast in the early morning and know where the good quality of Austrian food comes from, namely from our rural families. I would like to thank you very much for this. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with the liberals.]] I thank you for providing us with this quality and taste every day. And this good taste cannot even be corrupted, for example, by Mr Kummerer's speech on agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Mr Kummerer, I am proud to be able to represent here in Parliament a professional group which is one of the most flexible professional groups in this state, namely the farmers. We know that farmers have had to make a lot of contribution over the last decades, and this deserves respect and recognition. But, for example, through the preventers, they are and are constantly put in the corner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Who the We have known since yesterday that the preventers in this country are: They are the preventers because you are unable to contribute to political change. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] They turn to the corner, raunt and wail and make Austria bad. Something else has not occurred to you in the last two years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy, we have contributed to EU accession – we have not put ourselves in the corner. Despite all the difficulties, the farmers said: Yes, under certain conditions we are willing to contribute to this internationalization! We had a reform of the agricultural policy in 2000 with Agenda 2000. We have already had reform proposals from the Commission on the table in 2002, which you welcomed in Austria, but which have never dealt with the details. If the proposals had been implemented as they were put on the table, this would have meant a 20 percent reduction for the Austrian farmers in the market-regulation premiums – shaved over the comb. That is, there would have been dairy farms affected by 16 cows, mother cows with 21 cows and farms with 15 hectares – a sting in the heart of the Austrian peasant structure! You, ladies and gentlemen, welcomed this from the opposition. We have analysed, we have assumed responsibility, and the result of this CAP reform can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Minister, I would really like to thank you very much, because it is a great success in Austria, for example, that we did not have to reduce the marketing premiums of 20 percent, which you welcomed, but only 3 to 5 percent in the coming years, that we have a milk quota of 50 000 units higher in Austria and that we were able to secure the milk quota for our dairy farms in particular until the 2014/15 marketing year. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] I would really like to thank you very much for this. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Thank you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We also have no fear of major changes in the future and will contribute, co-shape and co-operate whether the WTO negotiations are, whether that... – prevent you, not us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The preventers are sitting here in this House on the left and not in the middle and on the right, Mr Kummerer, so that this is also clearly established! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We'll take it. We have not even worked in harmonizing pension systems in the back, but have said, despite the difficult agricultural perspective: Yes, we are also taking this step! We design the health reform, we design appropriate growth packages with focus, for example for the expansion of biomass in Austria or broadband technology especially for rural areas, which you have now discovered in Austria after decades. You've always said: Get away with the funds from the rural area, into the city, into the agglomerations to secure jobs there! All this is detectable. But we have always experienced competence in rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Therefore, I am very glad that we can secure the budgets – and you have never brought them together in your government periods – for two years: 2005, 2006. We are already deciding on the 2006 budget so that we can also give our farmers safety and planning for the future so that we can secure the 3-billion package, also in co-financing, and so that we can give farmers appropriate compensation allowances for falling prices that we had to experience. [[Abg. Marizzi: Because you were scared!]] I also say quite openly: As far as rural development is concerned, Mr Federal Minister, we are faced with major challenges in order to keep the share of Austria of 10 per cent with 2% of the farmers – and this is a difficult task – so that we can also make available an environmental programme, a compensation allowance for the miners and appropriate investment support, because today, in the area of this food cluster, around 600,000 people in Austria work. Therefore, not only do you see this as subsidies or alms, as you always say, for the farmers, but you also see it as an employment-political turbo, which is being provided here for the farmers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Who says that?]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Watch out!]] - You say that all the time, yes, you. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Eh “her”!]] Mr Moser said at the last meeting of the main committee that farmers would not be paid for. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We will tell the farmers, ladies and gentlemen. That's what's on the record. [[Abg. Silhavy: For the premium for the Brachland, or not?]] Mrs Silhavy, once you have a close look at agricultural policy, you will see that this has a major employment impact, including these budget-saving measures. I'm telling you openly: In the future, farmers in Austria will continue to be willing to contribute, contribute to, contribute to, and change the profile of the demand that consumers wish to make. But this is only possible if there are fair prices and political frameworks, as we ensure them, what you have never been able to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2736	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2800	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is now very difficult to deal with budget details. Then: What durability do we now decide what we are discussing? – Very open: There is a metaphor that fits both the environmental debate and the current political situation, namely dust, dust. That's why I brought a fine dust mask. [[The speaker showed them.]] The government is crushing, this is obvious – perhaps you still need it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] In fact, it is almost impossible to deal with this budget in detail now, but it does not save you to actually listen to two or three international press voices on the situation in Austria. I know, Mr Scheibner does not hold it out if I read something again now, but German Chancellor Schüssel likes to read it out of the ‘NZZ’, so I can do it once too. [[Abg. Scheibner: I want to hear about fine dust and about agriculture!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't like that either!]] “Haider’s latest political happening is like a “self-put” in Latin American, even though it is happening in Vienna, in Central Europe. The illustrious leader hunts atrocious fidelity into the devil, finally to be able to switch and operate alone again. He turns his party around and misses her a new accelerator. A program does not need it, it is not asked for either. Orange is made of blue, from FPÖ becomes BZÖ – what this means does not matter if only the boss remains. Does it have a future? One doubts!” Does this budget have a future? - I doubt! It goes on to say: “Haider blau or Haider orange – with this Polit-Hasarteur threatens to crash into chaos at any time.” – Quote. Okay, we're still discussing the budget, although the crash threatens to crash into chaos at any time. [[Abg. Scheibner: Please!]] I would like to dwell on current problems, which are, in fact, urgently crying out for action, for activity and for politics, and not for disputes, beautiful speeches, desperate overcoloring and repainting of old parties and old programs. To the environmental budget itself: Mr Pröll, you have decided to spend a little more on climate protection, but ultimately to invest a lot of it abroad, by buying so-called emission certificates. This is particularly the wrong way for fine dust problems. Firstly, it is the wrong way out of economic policy and labour market policy. They know everything that is being invested in the country brings additional jobs, additional employment, additional growth and an additional reduction in air pollutants, whose values are still dramatically high at the moment. Since the last discussion during the current hour here in this House, we have had further limit values for fine dust in almost all the capitals of the country. In the Styria it is now 62 days with limit value exceeded. I remind you, the whole year is 30 days. In Innsbruck it is now 41, in Lower Austria 36, in Carinthia 36, in Upper Austria 36, in Tirol 35, in Vienna 33 days. So the situation has become even worse since we discussed the last time. I would therefore ask you again today: Remember, just take it that way, remember to just continue to take the risk of children's health, or finally give yourself a back and finish Is this a standstill in environmental and health policy? [[Every Member of the Greens shows a fine dust mask that he holds in his hands.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: One, two, three – sit down!]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP and the Freeman: Set up!]] Mr Molterer, you can give orders in this group that sits next to you, but for our group not yet. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister Pröll, you gave me such a beautiful bag the last time, you get something from me today, but don't forget that this is a very serious problem. In this case, it is not about your health, but about the health of very, very many children. You have given me such a beautiful green bag, that is the fashion color, I think – even with you obviously not black-green, but green it is. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Prill: Black...!]] But take this problem a little more seriously, stand in front of this house and finally announce what you will do about it. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I take it very seriously!]] [[The speaker turned to the government bank and handed over Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll a fine dust mask]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Thank you!]] Limit value exceeded across Austria – twice as many now as we are expected to have in one year. We are already using the quota for 2007, if you take it exactly. I don't think that's the way it goes. Mr Federal Minister, there are, of course, responsibilities that are not alone with you, but that is exactly the problem: There are also responsibilities for the national leaders. And you can tell what country leaders are and what they are not doing, but ultimately the basic responsibility – also for this inaction of the national leaders – is to do something against this inactivity, exclusively with you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have not only limit values in Styria, but of course in all the federal states, but I would like to point out, on the basis of the example of Styria, how not to deal with such a problem. Steiric responsibility is, of course, the responsibility of the head of state. The head of state should adopt status survey, action plans and cetera. This head of state is, however, inactive, particularly as regards measures. It said last time a colleague from the ÖVP: Now, if one of these heads of state – for example, head of state Klasnic – is to draw up a plan of action, it would be a blow to the face of these heads of state. I wonder, Which is actually better for you or where you have less scruples: to stifle a country captain in his pride, that he gets something needed and leaves health promotion measures by instruction, or if you find it harder to tell a family where the child is suffering from asthma: I'm sorry, but in order not to stifle the pride of a country captain, I don't point out to do something about it!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think the decision is very simple. I found it extremely cynical that you say in such a context: It is a blow to the face of the national leaders! if, on the other hand, massive health risks are still more and more every day and since the current hour more are available every day. Mr Umweltminister! Rarely that I quote from newspapers, from Austrian newspapers – today I have already quoted a lot from international – but Mr. Strudl in the “Sunday notes” is quite right when he says: “Our anti-environmental minister cleans off si wieda amal and says that fine dust is country matter. HUSH, HUSH! Live federalism!" In this case, he is right, and he has also shaped a new predicate for you, namely “Anti-Environmental Ministers”. Unfortunately, it is not only in the field of fine dust, but in many environmental areas that there is a standstill, whether this is anti-atomic policy, where the milking process has only moved paper to and fro, whether it is the EIA novel, where one has also made a gift to the national leaders to decide: Do I make an environmental impact assessment or not? whether this is in many other climate-related areas, such as gifts to the economy with emission-certificate trading. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] So the balance of your environmental policy is not one that comes from an environmental minister, but one that, as Mr Strudl says, comes from an anti-environment minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e2983	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3005	Mr President. Minister of the Environment, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Forestry, Minister of Life – no matter what! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, I was fascinated by your speech. Unfortunately, it was just a detail, but you're standing here and you said: You can buy anything from the members of this club, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. Do you know what you said as a supplement? – “Not yet”! “ Not yet! ” What's that supposed to mean? – Is that supposed to mean, you are in expectation that you will finally get something purchased, are you hoping that there will finally be new elections and perhaps you will become Minister or Minister? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is called selective perception!]] What was the father of thought? – The hope, the desire, the despair that you have to do something at last? You have to do something again. You've got to work again now, because we've been very clearly aligned, we've been positioning ourselves. From yesterday's day on, you will no longer get voters without working for it, and therefore there will be few voters you will get. This federal government, with the ÖVP, with the liberal club and with the alliance future for Austria, will not make it easy for you, ladies and gentlemen and above all, dear Mrs Glawischnig, to win the next elections! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The times when you could only lean back and wait to pick up any voices that might not have had a home here are over. It will take a long time for you to perhaps do something together with the ÖVP club, or perhaps Mr Klubobmann Molterer will buy you something. You don't seem to have the nerves for your own actionism either, because you put on the fine dust masks, but you also seem to have noticed that it doesn't dust us very much, otherwise you would have put on your masks and thus finished your actionism. - Good. But the real issue is the budget. I can deal with agriculture and forestry. I am indeed, even if something has gone down in the last day, agricultural speakers of this club and I think that it is the farmers and farmers... [[Abg. Brosz: That's pretty down! The whole club went down!]] Mr Brosz, I think you can laugh. Making fun of farmers may fit your character, but it certainly does not fit this house. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's why, and you can believe me, I'm going to take care of the farmers, no matter what areas I'm thinking of inwardly. I believe that it is up to me as the fourth speaker to say thank you, too, to all those of whom Mr Grillitsch has spoken, to make available everything from breakfast to those things to which Mr Kummerer has expressed himself. These are the farmers in this country. These are all those people who work in their fields, who make sure that we also have this good environment, by Dr. Glawischnig believes that she is at risk. I would also like to thank the Ministry for its work at this point, of course, although I do not agree in many areas as you would like to believe. I can't thank the farmers' association, Mr Grillitsch. I told you at the last budget speech. That's what I've been looking at. Even then, you wanted to thank the peasantry. We must thank the farmers and the farmers. If we thank the professional representation, then we must thank the chambers, because the chambers are the foundation stone for it. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] It is already true that the chambers are politically, of course, mainly dominated by the peasantry, but not only politically. Now I have to turn to the other side again, Mr Kummerer. Mr Kummerer, you should go out to your local professional representatives sometime. They're talking very differently than you are. You know what I've looked at – a fascinating detail, I can only speak for Carinthia now, because there I'm also in the professional office. There there is the following relationship in the board of directors of the Chamber of Agriculture and Forestry: four ÖVP members, two FPÖs, free peasantry members, future alliance Austria probably immediately, and thirdly, there is a socialist peasant representative. This socialist farmer's representative, Mr. Chamber President Johann Thaler, a known miner, has voted in favour of one of these small farmers, which you want to protect in this way last year, of 98 percent of the decisions, resolutions, initiatives and proposals for implementation of the Chamber of Agriculture and Fostwirtschaft in Carinthia. That is, 98 percent of what is being done there also finds the approval and support of socialist farmers. [[Abg. Grillisch: He knows himself!]] This is proof of a not so bad agricultural policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We should really go about ending this class struggle here, too. I've been looking at this now. It is this time the third agricultural budget we are negotiating, and it is three times the announcement of this class struggle, which I simply consider to be not in order in agriculture. It's not all right if we carry it out here today on the back of the farmers. That's where we can discuss details. It is also in this budget details that are not all right. There is also a need for action here – no question at all – but here the feasible is to be taken out, here you have to try to form a span between the arable farms that exist with permission, up to the small mining farms. We must try here to make sure that everyone gets a share of this cake, which guarantees them one – and that is about it – of survival, of the workplace. If the SPÖ spoke again yesterday about the employment policy of many unemployed people, I must say, ladies and gentlemen: In agriculture, there are over 200 000 jobs directly, as Mr Grillitsch has said, and over 600 000 jobs, which are indirectly concerned. This sector of work and business is important and creates, above all, one thing: It creates decentralised jobs. Agriculture creates jobs precisely in these small villages, in these regions, in these valleys, which must be preserved. In the final effect, it is already justified, and I also do not like – and the colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture know that – to be critical very often. I am thinking only of the award of the milk quota, where the Minister has allowed a serious mistake – no question at all – where I still believe that this award was not all right. We have discussed the taxation of agricultural communities in the financial committee and with the Minister of Finance, where a step has now been taken, where instead of 1 000, we now have a limit of 2 000 euros. But it is still in the final effect an unfair burden on the rural population, the members of the agricultural community. There are a lot of areas where we need to re-adjust where we need to improve where we need to work. We have passed an animal welfare law on the issue of creating framework conditions so that farmers can continue to exist. It cannot be that, on the basis of a nitrate regulation adopted by Brussels, we have, at once, problems in the field of good practice, such as free-lance, in the farms. I know dozens of farms that simply don't know how to continue because they have problems with nitrate pollution due to the free land and the feeding outside. In other words, excessive environmental policy is also against farmers and is also against agriculture. You should find this shoulder clasp. There's no room for polemics, I think. We would like to talk to many urgent requests and requests from the opposition about the future alliance of Austria, we can talk about government work, which should have place there. Ladies and gentlemen! This is about agriculture, the forestry sector, the budget in this area, the environment, and here all are invited to look for the end of the shoulder, Mr Kummerer, as your representative in the Carinthian Chamber of Agriculture does, and that is consensus-conscious, consensus-oriented. In principle, I do not care whether this is a farmer's farmer, a socialist farmer, a liberal farmer, a green farmer or a organic farmer. It's about the work place out there, it's about the families. These principles must be safeguarded, and this government is committed to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3117	Mr Krainer is speaking now. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3138	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The debate on the budget for the environmental chapter is, of course, also a good opportunity to take a little account of your environmental policy, the policy of the EIA above all in this area. It will be clear whether this is a good balance sheet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I'm taking out three areas exemplaryly to light this up. First area: Climate policy. Her predecessor as Minister for the Environment, Minister Bartenstein – as you can hear, your best friend in the government – has negotiated a reduction target for Austria in the Kyoto process of 13 percent less CO2 than we did in 1990. And the question is: Where are we today? The goal is clear: Baseline 79 million tonnes, target 68 million tonnes. We have been waiting for the long-standing Kyoto progress report with the current figures in 2003 for several weeks. One has to say that, in fact, he should call Kyoto a step back report, which would be more honest and, above all, true, because what will stand in it is that we do not have a single tonne less – no, quite the contrary: We already have 92 million tonnes. That is, we have produced 13 million tonnes more and not 11 million tonnes less. What you simply notice is that environmental policy seems to be moving in the wrong direction. But that's no wonder because It seems to be always taking the step backwards in environmental policy. That's why I'm not surprised that we're always moving in the wrong direction. What's still happening is that They always drive against a wall or the same as they were recently in Brussels. They will vote for climate targets in the Environment Council on Thursday, the next day the Foreign Minister will vote against long-term climate targets as the only representative of a country in the European Union. The Federal Chancellor makes himself a spearhead at all and then blocks climate targets at the European Council in Brussels a few weeks ago. Its image is, of course, disastrous in Brussels, but what is even worse, also the image of Austria in terms of environmental and climate policy. Second area: Tank tourism. In Austria, petrol and diesel are in part considerably cheaper than in our neighbouring countries, and unlike 10 or 15 years ago, when many Austrians were still thinking abroad, many people are now filling with us. [[Abg. Wittauer: I said that a year ago! Incredible!]] You have commissioned a study to see how much that actually is. And see: Over € 1 billion, the tank tourism is rinsing in the cash offices of the Minister of Finance. Klubobmann Scheibner gets already bright eyes, he maybe converts this into catchers, I don't know that, but we take over 1 billion € per year. [[Abg. Scheibner: If you want!]] One joy, the other suffering: Of course, Austria is also counting the CO2 emissions of this fuel, which is about 7 million tonnes, expressed in euros about 42 million. That is, still a bomb business for Austria, more than 95 percent profit, more than € 950 million each year Plus. Everyone would have expected the Minister to move to Himmelpfortgasse now, go to the Minister of Finance and say he needs more money for climate objectives, he needs more money for the environmental budget. And he would have had a good argument, because the tank tourism study strengthens his back on this question. But what does he do? – He goes back and goes away from the Ministry of Finance and lands again in Brussels, where he goes back against a wall and again disasterises his own image, which is not so important to me now, but also the image of Austria. Or do you really think you're taking a slim foot with this Rosin Pickery in Brussels? – Not at all! [[Abg. Scheibner: Please, speak well!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next area: environmental impact assessment. I will not say much about this for reasons of time. Moreover, it is only a few weeks ago, and we can all remember this sad spectacle, where you have returned to environmental policy and have again reached a step backwards for citizens' participation and for the environment with the innovation of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Summary: The policy of the ÖVP and the policy of this Federal Government in the environmental field is a policy of backwardness and a policy of backwardness. Now we will probably not be able to get used to the return journey, you and your colleagues Bartenstein and Schüssel are taking care of it. But what we still want to give you here is a mirror so that at least you don't continue to disaster Austria's image. And see it as a symbol of your policy, because the EIA policy is a backward policy in the field of the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3222	Now, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3244	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the speeches of the two environmental spokespersons of the opposition parties, we now finally know where the environmental problems of this country lie. Although we have not heard any proposals for solutions, the problems are at last clear. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: That was a training measure for you!]] That we have a fine dust problem, that we must make great efforts in climate policy, that we should continue our efforts in anti-atomic policy, we would have known before. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You didn't do anything! Knowledge you do it in principle!]] But of course it is all easier for an opposition to frighten people with posters, where a child is pictured and the word “fine dust” is on it, for of course everyone fears it. I remember the discussion with Mrs Glavischnig recently in the 'ZiB 2', where it was about this EIA-Novelle. It has actually risen to that, for example, because the stadium in Klagenfurt may not need any EIA anymore, so that I can be responsible for this before the poor children who live next to the stadium. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where you're making politics, there's no stadium at all!]] If one makes such a policy, if one operates only with fear of people, although we do not violate any material law in the EIA-Novelle, but rather let all the provisions of protection be maintained, then I must say that it is not possible to make a policy. At best, you can try to clear a few voices there or there cheaply. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Citizens' participation!]] My colleague Grillitsch rightly pointed out earlier that he is proud of the Austrian farmers, their achievements and their flexibility in dealing with the necessary changes. And he has rightly pointed out that he is proud of the environmental policy, of the agricultural policy we are operating – rightly, as I mean – because it carefully accompanies these necessary changes, but does not abandon the agricultural population. And I think that with the same pride, I can also refer to the environmental policy of our party and the government as environmental spokesperson of the ÖVP here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You can't hear it from the opposition anymore, I understand it, but it's a fact that Austria in Europe is the environmental model country bad. Look at the rankings, no matter in which area: We are top in Europe in almost all areas, and of course we want to remain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The budget, which is available for decision-making today, is taking another step in this direction. There is a significant increase, particularly in the field of climate protection, where, in turn, funds are increased by €30 million compared with 2005. We also finance the previously criticised programme for flexible mechanisms for supporting climate action abroad. These are, of course, all more efficient than in our own country, given the good standard we have with us. Every million euros we invest in these programmes, of course, brings a much larger return on investment than would be the case with the already good standard in our own country. It makes sense – of course not exclusively, but also – to invest in such environmental protection programmes abroad, because it is a very efficient contribution to climate protection on earth – and it is known that the issue of CO2 is not one that stops beyond national borders. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But also in other areas – for example in the urban water industry; we have a great water quality in Austria, not least thanks to our efforts in this area, where over €300 million are used, contributions are made, for example, to improve water quality. Jobs will be secured. It will promote technological development. The same applies to old-age and newly-dominated research in the field of energy efficiency, where a significant funding approach in this budget can be found at €7 million, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a model student in Europe in terms of environmental policy. With this budget, Austria will continue to be able to remain model students in Europe. I would therefore ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3356	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3377	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Head, really remarkable is the following: The environmental speaker of the ÖVP obviously loses any awareness of the problem. I'm really worried, Mr. Kopf! – Now he seems to have gone out anyway. [[Abg. Head: (who sits in the first row, giving up) I have sat down extra close to you!]] - Ah, there he is! Say hello! So: That's the worry we have! They leave the necessary awareness of the problem – just as the Minister for the Environment! - Missing. [[Abg. Head: We do something!]] There is a lack of pressure on countries so that the fine dust load, which according to international studies is large, is immediately reduced. That is what we want, and that is what we expect from an environmental minister. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Instead, there is a standstill, and every other day that this Federal Government is in office, every other day on which Black Blue reigns is a lost day. Ladies and gentlemen, it is! This can also be shown very clearly, very clearly and clearly by means of this budget. Colleagues Scheuch is right – by the way: very interesting! – spoke of massive shortcomings of this Minister in the agricultural field. For example, he said that Federal Minister Pröll made serious mistakes in the distribution of milk quotas in Austria – there was a fierce discussion about this last year – and I can only thank him! Ladies and gentlemen! The failure of the Minister of Agriculture is far more serious. I have already pointed out several times at this point that central implementations in its area are not constitutional. A quarter – i.e. a total of 25 percent! — the agricultural budget, which is to be decided in this House, is not constitutional. It is €520 million for 2006, which will be distributed according to a new system, namely the farm premium model. This money is distributed on the basis of a 2004 regulation. Mr Federal Minister, this regulation is not constitutional! I announced half a year ago in this House that we will examine this carefully in the future. A legal opinion of the University of Vienna, namely the Institute of Constitutional and Administrative Law, gives the criticism of Green Law. Ladies and gentlemen! This occupational premiums regulation infringes Article 18 of the Federal Constitutional Act. I think that should give you some thought, Mr. Federal Minister. In concrete terms, the lack of legal standardisation of the implementation of the agricultural reform is a complaint. I quote from this opinion: ‘The legal bases contained in the promulgation clause’, namely the single payment regulation, ‘are therefore not sufficiently determined and can at best be referred to as the foundation of this Regulation. There is therefore an unlawful formal legal delegation." This says a scientific opinion on your implementation of EU agricultural policy, Federal Minister! You haven't done anything to clean this up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Furthermore, this single payment regulation is contrary to the principle of equality and to the principle of objectivity. – I quote again, ladies and gentlemen: ‘The single payment scheme set up by the single payment scheme leads to differentiations which cannot be justified in substance. In addition, a scheme that allows individual agricultural land to be managed without the right to farm premiums, in a system based on subsidized agricultural land management, is contrary to the general offer of property." Ladies and gentlemen! There are serious legal concerns about your agricultural policy, namely serious concerns about 25 percent of this agricultural budget for 2006! [[Abg. Ellwall: This is just a legal opinion!]] However, your failure, Mr Federal Minister, must be assessed in the light of the fact that this is not the only criticism of your kind of agricultural policy implementation, because, as you know for a long time, since October 2004, a corresponding decision of the Constitutional Court has been taken, which, in a similar case, represents the same opinion in the question of the animal premium regulation 2000, namely that you have paid premiums that are not constitutionally regulated. In fact, they repeatedly refer – including in the occupational premiums regulation – to a section of the Market Regulation Act, which is § 99, which you believe will be able to implement EU legislation on a regulatory basis. This is not legal, and it is not legal, if the EU regulation provides various means of implementation. But that is exactly the case, Mr Federal Minister, with the single payment scheme. We have made this clear again and again in this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] He doesn't care? - Possible! Yes! Furthermore, the single regional area premium for arable land and green land should not be forgotten. This is the model that the Greens have favorited. This model has also been implemented by the majority in Europe. [[Call the ÖVP:Where?]] In Germany, in Luxembourg, in Denmark, in Sweden, in Great Britain, in Finland and in all the new Member States of the European Union. In other words, a clear majority of EU Member States have implemented a model that is friendly for farmers and consumers, ensuring the future of a comprehensive agriculture. This model leads to uniform premiums for arable and green land. That's exactly what the farmers want! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Federal Minister, you have not implemented it! On the contrary! At present, in Austria, the applications of farmers are running until 17. Its applications for this new model must be filed with the agricultural market Austria or with the district farmers' chambers. Thousands of farmers are desperate – I emphasize: they are really desperate! – and a case where this is expressed, I would like to give you a brief description here so that you can understand what it is all about. A farmer, who is 53 years old, who has previously managed the farm, a part of the farm, namely 7 hectares, now has the problem that, on the basis of the fact that she has taken back the land she has leased from her land in the last ten years after the marriage of her daughter to a farmer from the region, because she sees the possibility to carry on the farm meaningfully, she can no longer claim a premium for these areas. I have both here: first of all, the letter to you, Mr Federal Minister, in which this farmer invites you to give her an appointment so that she can finally come to her right and so that she can explain her problem at all, and second, the communication from the agricultural market Austria, which, by March 2005, announced to her that she is entitled to zero euro. A farmer who has been paying higher social security contributions for one year has a premium of zero euros because she also has a higher basis of calculation by increasing the area she operates! [[Abg. Hornek: How much premium did she get?]] This farmer is no longer getting a lot of necessary premium and is now desperate because she is de facto pushed out of agricultural production! Mr Hornek, this problem not only has this farmer, but hundreds, thousands of farmers are desperate for this reason! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] I believe that on this point, Mr Federal Minister, we have repeatedly pointed out to you, you have failed in full. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to address a key point, namely your so-called synergies function as Minister for the Environment and Agriculture. In this role, you should have been presenting a package of measures for organic farming for the next period, for the period 2007 to 2013. It is precisely for those areas of agriculture in which there is definitely the closest restriction of environmental policy and agricultural policy, namely for organic farming, that you still do far too little. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: (feeling hands together) Please?- Oh, my God!]] There are €900 000 in this budget for organic farming organisations, which are still less funds than in 2000. That's what the Minister for the Environment is like as a Minister for Agriculture! Finally, Mr Pröll, I would like to say once again: They have failed to implement EU agricultural reform in the Causa. Your budget is not constitutional. That is why we will challenge the operating premium regulation before the Constitutional Court. We will not, of course, give our consent to this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3556	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3578	Minister! High house! Mrs Glavischnig, I am of course aware of how important the environment is to you if you make your criticism of the Freedom Party at the beginning of your statement and in your speech deal more with us, with the liberals. [[Abg. Ollinger: Which party?]] [[Abg. Oils: Ah! What's the difference?]] This shows the importance of key issues such as the environment and agriculture. The only thing you think about is the question: Are there now freedom-like ones or others? You're pretending you don't even know us, although we've been here in the House for many years. But these are your problems – not ours! Ladies and gentlemen! We've arrived... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Mr Krainer, in 1999 there was a turning point with these liberals: The ceasefire of the great coalition has ended, and since then it has gone up with our country because programmes have been made for people and for the environment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] That's facts! You can still yell so loud – that's it! I know how sad it is for you to sit here and not be able to rule and no longer be able to distribute the resources you used to distribute. That's a bitter pill for you! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] We have come to be there for the people, and we are working for the people! You can, if you want, yell here and get sick. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's what you do when you're out here saying: The Minister for the Environment is now no longer the one carrying the image of the environment outside! I'll tell you: Austria is environmental country number one in Europe, and with this government it remains environmental country number one in Europe. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] I can guarantee you that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I must remember the time of sanctions, who fought for the image of Austria at the time. I also remember very well how the Social Democrats and all the others who were outside made Austria bad. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] So don't say things here that you don't understand! This also applies to the environment. You can only talk, and that without content, but we act and implement! [[Abg. Reheis: This is simply superfluous what you are doing! So that's something of superiority!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] When I look at this wonderful land in which I live, I also see how much performance the farmers produce for the general public – and I am also a farmer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] That must be a good speech if you're so upset! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Mr Pirklhuber! What you've said here is an old leader. I'll tell you: The biggest reform in the history of Europe has taken place in the field of agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] It is clear that someone who has not managed his country for ten years will have certain disadvantages. But we have made sure that there is a fund for hardships, and if it is justified, then there is a right. It is clear that at the beginning of an application there is always a negative notice and then, in some cases, that one or the other is set correctly. I don't know many farmers who complained. But I know many farmers who work for the future who want to meet the challenges of the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Yes, we farmers have had a hard time because we have had to make the biggest change through accession to the EU. In Austria, European reforms are implemented in the form of the fact that, in fact, organic farming is still the most supported, miners are given massive support, small-scale agriculture – not only the large farms – is supported. But all of this is made bad from the outset. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber, if you now threaten this government, that you will go to the Constitutional Court and make accusations there, I must tell you: There the farmers will thank you! I also wonder why the Greens have not long been sitting in the Chamber of Agriculture and putting the President there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Another point that is repeatedly raised here is the fine dust pollution caused by transport. The provisions for this can be found in the IG-air, in the Immissionsgesetz- Luft. I have written down briefly how there are responsibilities. In Upper Austria, the Erich Haider is responsible – as far as I know – for the transport sector and in charge of the environment – in Salzburg, it is Mrs Burgstaller, in the Burgenland of Mr. Niessl, in Tirol the Mr. Gschwendtner and in Vienna the Mr. Häupl. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] There are already a number of people who should finally implement the IG air so that we have a successful program. Instead of pitying the Minister, you should finally do something for the people in your own ranks! But don't do one thing: abuse Parliament for your regrets! If, instead, we cooperate better, then we come on a good path for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3760	The Minister of State Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Everything that is spoken for more than 20 minutes will be withdrawn from the ÖVP. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e3781	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Two key budget chapters are discussed here today. I will then address the various points raised here later, but first of all I would like to say the following: We have a development at the overall location in the Budgetary Angle data that can be seen. In 2003, there was €2.459 billion for chapters 60 and 61, agriculture and the environment. Since 2003, there has been an increase of 8.7 percent to a sum of €2,673 billion by 2006. This is important for the development of rural areas, important for the support of rural people, important for the further development of a targeted environmental policy in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me start with the chapter on agriculture. In 1995, when Austria joined the European Union, not least because of expected price reductions and income losses, we have tied a package based on three main cornerstones: supporting environmentally sound agriculture, giving compensation to the miners and providing compensation for price reductions. Ladies and gentlemen! We have then also put in place an agricultural policy package for farmers in the great reforms of the European Union. We have promised to put a 3-billion package on the table by 2006 and to fund year after year, and with the 2006 budget we will solve what we have promised. We give security, we finance the agricultural policy package in its entirety. We are also preparing for the new period of rural development. As these negotiations at European level, and also in the national area between the Federal Government and the Länder, will be based on rural life, the income-setting of farmers, which must be made offensive for the future, will depend accordingly. You can also see clearly one thing, ladies and gentlemen, with which I come up with some accusations, and the circle between the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment concludes: that we have forced organic farming to have a very positive development in recent years, especially in the more intensive areas used in agriculture. The number of organic farmers is increasing, the management area is increasing, and the estimated budget is increasing. We are quite clear about this differentiation! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kummerer! You said I wouldn't have answered the questions. ==References== On April 14, the House sent all the questions, the answers have been answered to you. [[Abg. Krainer: On 1st. April?]] I can't leave this in the room either: Ladies and gentlemen! We spend €2.113 billion in 2006 on agriculture – rural development, market regulation – and we do not distinguish between large and small, but we reward environmental services, we are the same as the mining compensation for small farms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Yes, and it's getting less and less!]] It is a system that uses the budget for rural development and for farmers fairly and efficiently. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Mittermüller.]] With the reform of the common agricultural policy, we have had to give an answer to international events around the WTO: and decoupling is the answer we have given. Very intensive, with a high level of consultation, has succeeded in implementing in recent months the largest system change in the agricultural policy sector in Europe, also in Austria and giving a correct and logical answer. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not a logical answer!]] We also estimate an increase in public expenditure – €634 million – and the federal government provides € 190 million. For the compensation allowance for the miners, there are €309 million, of which €114 million, ladies and gentlemen! For other rural development, there is €153 million. Now it is important to think about how we can extend this programming over the period from 2007 to 2013, how we can enforce ourselves in Europe, and how much money we can get from Europe in the future. I do not want to say that my goal is to achieve consistency, to fight in Europe for Austria to take the lead in the future, as far as rural development is concerned. We'll pick up most of the money by far. The next few weeks and months are about putting important impulses here. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Mittermüller.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on a second point. We start in Austria from 1. October with a new era in fuel policy. We are responding to environmental challenges – with the addition of biofuels to fossil energies, and we can thus give rural prospects, especially in terms of value creation. This is important for the environmental standard, important for rural development. In recent years, we have done something that is necessary for Austria, namely to give the right answers in the field of wildlife and avalanche cultivation based on the topography of our country. We use 100 million euros in federal funds in the protection of the people in this country, in the protection of the water, in the processing of wildlife and avalanche. This means that in rural areas, through local investment, more than 6 500 jobs per year, especially in this less favoured area, we are ensuring direct employment in rural areas. Especially in times like this, it is essential! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Mittermüller.]] On the question of environmental policy, ladies and gentlemen, briefly the key facts. These key data also speak for themselves. We had budgeted € 483 million in 2003. In 2006, we increase to € 559 million, plus 6.9 percent of the budget for the improvement of environmental quality in this country. Mrs Glavischnig, you are so happy to read from newspapers. I also brought one, one from Germany, namely “Die Zeit”. [[Abg. Marizzi: You always take only German newspapers!]] The article has the title: "The Feldhamster is not to blame. In times of high unemployment, environmental protection is under fire –...’ [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: I always quote only Austrian newspapers! You're always talking about Germany!]] There is also an interesting graphics included. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I know you don't want to hear that, but it's important to talk about the budget. This table shows how high environmental protection expenditure is as a percentage of gross domestic product compared to individual countries. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Who are you talking about? Germany or Austria?]] And there – you hear and marvel! – Austria is by far the leader. 2.4 percent are spent on environmental protection! [[Abg. Krainer: This is agricultural support!]] After that, the Netherlands comes with 2 percent, then Poland, France, Switzerland – Germany only after the USA, which is interesting. I hope that the Austrian environment will remain red-green for a long time, otherwise we would also have to expect a massive deterioration in environmental quality, ladies and gentlemen! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Mittermüller.]] You have also referred to the issue of fine dust, and I too would like to say a few words about it. We discussed this extensively. The responsibility lies with the countries. [[Call to the Greens: We know that, eh!]] The countries wanted the responsibility, now they have to take it! You have already said today that they do not like to buy something or not yet buy it, but you ask me to buy your councillor Rudi Anschober, how he should make environmental policy. I assume that he actually needs to know, but – obviously! – not taking the appropriate measures, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! But I say stone and clear: Those who bear responsibility, have wanted it and have taken it, must then also take the appropriate measures! This applies to all areas of political debate, but also to the central issue of the problem of fine dust, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Also for you!]] [[Abg. Krainer: This also applies to you!]] With regard to the balance sheet of environmental policy in Austria, it should be noted that: We are spending the most money on this compared with the other countries of the European Union. [[Abg. Krainer: This is agricultural promotion!]] As far as the quality of life in Europe is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we are in absolute persuasion. [[Calls and calls between MEPs Grillitsch and Krainer.]] This does not fall from heaven, but was actively designed by this federal government. What is the balance sheet? – We provide water supply, in which waste water is supplied, €218 million in federal funds per year, thus ensuring water improvement, quality improvement and 18 000 jobs in Austria with correct, important environmental investments. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... not enough in the area yet!]] We increase the resources to achieve our climate change target by €30 million again! Plus € 30 million for a chapter of €525 million, ladies and gentlemen – this is an essential step in the right direction to implement what we have done in the field of climate protection. We have a 15a agreement with all federal states – coordinated by the federal government! – closed with a view to anchoring new minimum criteria in environmental housing development. This is an important contribution in terms of space heating, energy design for achieving climate change objectives. As one of the first countries in the European Union, we have been able to optimally agree with the Emissions Trading Directive to respond to the environmental challenges in climate protection and also to take account of the country's economic objectives. We want to reduce 1.65 million tonnes of CO2 per year with emissions trading – we have implemented, filed and worked on point by point in this area as the first country in Europe. [[Abg. Krainer: But the numbers say different!]] We start – I have already said this today – leading Europe on 1st. October with the mentioned addition – then increased to 5.75 percent by 2008 – a new era in fuel policy. This is precisely on days like those where fossil energy sources reach unprecedented heights, an important signal to become more independent of difficult international markets, to force domestic value creation and to contribute to climate protection by reducing one million tonnes of CO2, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday we brought a federal law on noise protection by the Council of Ministers. For the first time, a central environmental policy issue, fragmented on many legislation on matter, is concentrated in a federal law. I say to the Austrian people that we are fighting the noise. We will also respond accordingly to this challenge for the benefit of people in this country. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again on the subject of dust. Where we have a federal competence on this issue, we are implementing: With 1. July this year – also leading Europe – we create a tax incentive system to force the installation of diesel particulate filters in new cars – minus €300 Nova for those who invest environmentally friendlyly, plus €150 Nova for those who do not. This is a clear incentive system, which leads automotive manufacturers, especially in Germany, to make a clear commitment to force more cars with a diesel particle filter for the markets in the future. With 1. In January 2004, we also implemented sulphur-free fuel in Austria, i.e. on the basis of a voluntary agreement with manufacturers, we have achieved an improvement in environmental quality, which can also contribute significantly to the reduction of fine dust pollution. You see: Overall, there has been a substantial improvement in agriculture, rural development and environmental policy for Austria in recent years, as well as a sufficient budget allocation for 2006. On this basis, we can also make a positive development for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4052	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sad to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. Facts against facts, Mr Colleague. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4077	Mr President. High house! The Federal Minister has just claimed that he has made all the budget requests to him on 1 January. In writing, the Commission replied in writing. – That’s wrong! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is true, rather, that the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany made the brief written budget requests to him in accordance with § 32a para. 5 GOG has answered the oral questions asked in the second round, concerning which there was a four-party agreement and a assurance from the Minister of State to answer them, were not answered.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4123	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4155	Mr President. I am pleased that you think it is a highlight, Mr President, when I speak. – Mr Federal Minister, the opinions of the members of the government are very similar: Rejoice, jubilation, hallelujah singing and a biting about Germany. - That's it. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I didn't slander!]] By the way, Mr Federal Minister, the particulate filters for the trucks, by which the fine dust pollution is reduced, can we decide here, right? - Well, right now! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You can decide everything!]] Where's the law? Where's such a bill? [[Abg. Marizzi: Just like that!]] [[Abg. Gaál: This is federal competence!]] € 60 million more for the agricultural budget – jubilant by the farmers. The other alliances already hold back a little more; unfortunately, because if you see how the distribution looks, then you can see that nothing has changed: The more cow's tail, the more acres, the more money. It is not the working time, it is not the labour force and the workplace the measure, but the size of the holding. [[Abg. Grillitsch:... that with the compensation allowance for miners?]] This causes more and more farmers to stop being farmers. Unfortunately, the latest figures are not yet available, but the small farmers in our rural regions, in our rural areas, stop! And with that, Minister of State, I am already in the rural area. I asked you how you define the rural area and get the following answer – I may quote briefly –: All regions – I am now taking this out – where rural settlement and economic forms are to be found on the basis of primary agricultural production. – So, ‘on the basis of primary agricultural production’. Mr Minister, in your definition, in the definition of the Farmers' Federation and the ÖVP, this means: Rural space, these are – in brackets – (great) farmers and their property. And that's where we differ in the way we see it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer: He didn't say that!]] For us from the SPÖ, all the people who live and live there belong to the rural area, with the schools that still exist there, with the public infrastructure that still exists there – your ministerial colleagues are endeavoring to close these facilities fairly and very successfully, see Post, Gendarmerie, District Courts – and also with the local authorities that still exist there, with the public transport that is still there, with the small businesses that are still there, and with the jobs. This is the rural area for us, Mr Minister. Your answer is – according to what you say –: This is all beautiful and good, but I represent the farmers, I represent the (great) farmers – in brackets said by me – that's my area. Mr Federal Minister, with this attitude we will never reach agreement on the budget! One last sentence: It is interesting to read the last edition of the “Communal” official municipal body, in which it is interesting to read that the local government – and this is largely black – is clearly in favour of the use of the 15 percent outside of the agricultural support the EU speaks for rural regions, rural development and rural development. I am looking forward to the opinion of ÖVP mayors on this statement by the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4280	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. His speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4301	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Gaßner, you have now devoted yourself very intensively to rural areas. The SPÖ has discovered rural areas in recent years; however, in the years and decades before when you actually had the opportunity to take a firm stand for the rural area, nothing was to be heard about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can remind you that the first closures in rural areas include you, even the SPÖ – on your own! - had to be held responsible. [[Abg. Reheis: You have smashed the rural area! That's the problem!]] The rural area is certainly more than the original production for our ministers, but it has very vehemently pointed out that original production is simply the basis for the rural area. You can certainly not argue that agriculture and forestry is still the basis in rural areas. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore also like to focus on the rural area, which has always had a great deal of weight for us and has been given great attention. Since accession to the EU, it has also been a very important element of the agricultural policy in financial terms. I believe that we are giving the right answers to the questions of agriculture and rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] In the previous periods – that is, from 1995 to 1999 and now from 2000 to 2006 – we have developed a lot of programmes for this. In particular, I should like to draw attention to the Leader programme, which, I believe, is very appropriate in response to Mr Gaßner. The Leader, a pilot programme for innovative strategies, is about multi-sectoral involvement in multi-sectoral networking – this is a fundamental principle. That means: There is not only agriculture involved, but also the commercial sectors, tourism, social affairs and infrastructure – all of which are involved with local actors. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer:... right!]] We have set up 56 regions in Austria, over 1,000 municipalities, exactly 1 119 municipalities, in eight federal states, and 2.2 million people are affected. That is why, Mr Gaßner, you can under no circumstances claim that we are only concerned with agriculture, which is an integrated programme for all people in rural areas. The fact that there is a very intensive management for this, from the EU level down to the ministry, to the state governments and the project managers, the programme managers, is, I believe, well-known. But that the Federal Ministry and our Minister are responsible for the fact that Minister Pröll is thus the Federal Minister for Rural Affairs, that is probably too little known to you. I can't go into the financial resources now. This was good so far, from the first to the second programming period there has been an increase of €20 million to about €105 million. You'll see how important it is to us. For the future programme period, it also looks good, from the point of view of the teaching there may even be an improvement. There are many rural projects that take into account precisely these principles that have led to networking of all sectors. We will ensure this also in the next few years: We are already creating the foundations for the future programme period from 2007 to 2013, and our Minister for Rural Affairs will certainly ensure that it is not only the Minister of Life, but also the Minister for Rural Affairs, in which all areas of life are present. [[Call the ÖVP: Time!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4398	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 7 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4419	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! There is a very interesting phenomenon in agricultural policy: Since the beginning of the First Republic we have had 22 ÖVP Agriculture Ministers, Minister Pröll is the 23. And at that time we had an unabated decline in the number of farmers – an unabated decline in the number of farmers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Calls and calls between Sburny and Grillitsch.]] We are now talking about the last period, i.e. the years 2000 to 2003. We had 145,717 companies in the ÖPUL in 2000; in 2003 we had 135,157 companies in the ÖPUL, so around 10 500 farms less. Funding increased from € 543 million to € 628 million over the same period. This is an incredible development. If something like this happened in all other economic sectors, namely that there are many incentives but fewer jobs, all EIA politicians would shout and say: That must be examined! What's going on here? – In the agricultural sector, however, this is not the case. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have to give you the right, Minister, in the agricultural sector, the system is extremely efficient. We farmers are “transparent”. We are the glass farmer and the glass farmer. We know for ourselves what detergents we use. That's the situation. But this system is extremely unfair, it is extremely unfair in the distribution policy. [[Abg. Hornek: Do you have something to hide?]] - What should I have to hide? Should I hide that 10,000 jobs have been lost in rural areas? Correct You happy? What's that supposed to be? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So since the founding of the First Republic, we now have 22 EIA ministers, and we have a decline in the number of agricultural jobs to an unexpected extent. In addition, farmers who have done very ecologically have not been able to supply the milk quota, the milk premium, and these have now been tax-freely declared past farms by the Minister. We would rather not promote these farmers, we would rather not take them to the future. On the other hand, we want to take away the large businesses that are extremely environmentally unfriendly. [[Abg. Ellwall: A total nonsense!]] Now I need to talk a little bit about the environment. Mr Pröll is also the Minister for the Environment, although this does not always occur. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Not you!]] He says that 2.4 percent of the budget in Austria is used for environmental measures. [[Abg. Head: If someone works, he doesn't necessarily have to be loud!]] That's good. I also think I can read from the answer to the question that the Minister has been shaken up by our fine dust campaign, because he has seen that he must do something himself now after five years of mismanagement by FPÖ and now BZÖ ministers have come to a total standstill. These are lost years for Austrian transport policy, so he has to do something himself now. And he has, thankfully and noteworthyly, also released funds for this area. But I already understand why he too has been delayed and actually does not know quite what he is doing, because his own government is miscarriage him. In the event of appearances in Brussels, good negotiating results which he has achieved before will be put back into the ground and ground, as I would despair. And even more desperate would I be as Minister Pröll, whom I have met as a very constructive minister if I now had to look at this new situation. Today’s “New Zurich Newspaper” reads: “Flott and refreshing” is the goal of the new Haider party in Austrian politics. However, for the Austrian government under Chancellor Schüssel, the latest turbulences mean destabilization. You threaten to break away the foundations when one of two coalition parties splits or disintegrates. This restricts its political capacity.” That feels Mr Pröll, too. I can imagine that very well. [[Abg. Head: Say the “New Zurich Newspaper”!]] I quote: “This had to be known. Haider blue or Haider orange – with this politic hasardeur, the crash into chaos threatens at any time.” Of course, the Minister fears that. He's been working a lot and he doesn't want to go down with this mess troupe now. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'm not afraid!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'm not afraid!]] [[Abg. Head: He doesn't look so terrible!]] This is, of course, also evident in his current policy. [[Abg. Neudeck: He fears your analyses more!]] However, I would like to say something positive with joy: We're bringing in a four-party resolution request today. [[Quoted print version removed]] If it does not succeed at national level in bringing something forward for Austria, I hope that the international level will work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4622	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Eva Glawischnig, Karlheinz Kopf, Klaus Wittauer and Kai Jan Krainerist is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4698	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4719	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Rest-Hinterseer, as a representative of the "Chaos-Truppe" you have just referred to, I would like to say quite clearly that we know very well what we want here today to negotiate the budget and that we are doing constructive government work. Neither the government nor, I believe, the Minister of State has failed, because we are doing very constructive and good work for all Austrians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Although Mr Krainer does not want to be true: Climate protection and the implementation of the climate strategy are a priority objective of this Austrian environmental policy. It is quite clear that, in order to achieve the climate objectives, many measures must be implemented and, of course, activities must take place at all political levels. It is precisely the countries and municipalities that are invited to act. There is a bundle of measures: whether it be for targeted housing promotion, for which there is an Article-15a agreement, whether it is to create incentives to reduce greenhouse gases, or to extend renewable energy sources. It must be said quite clearly that all renewable and sustainable energy sources should be used, whether biomass, wind energy or geothermal energy, which should be used where possible, to generate sustainable energy and to avoid emissions from electricity generation. It is clear that a major driver of CO2 emissions is transport, but there are also concrete measures, in particular, taken by Minister of Transport Gorbach. I am thinking only of the offensive of traffic telematics, which will make transport processes more efficient and avoid congestion, because this will greatly reduce transport emissions. Ladies and gentlemen! The government is taking climate change seriously, and this is also evident in the current budget, which will provide over €30 million more for climate protection for 2006. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another area in which the government is very active is noise pollution. We know that this is an area that employs many Austrians and also affects many Austrians. We also know that noise is harmful to health. And here again, road traffic is one of the main causes. I remember socialist transport ministers who did not care about the construction of noise protection measures. In 1997, € 5.1 million was spent on noise protection along high-level roads, and in 2005 it is the tenfold. More than € 52 million will be made available for noise protection measures on high-level road connections. This is a constructive policy for environmental protection, which the Socialists have so negatively attacked today. There will also be a noise protection law. A new noise protection law was passed in the Council of Ministers yesterday, which we are about to discuss. The aim is to protect against unhealthy noise, to create very specific noise maps to be able to take action in certain areas where there is drastic noise pollution. There will also be an action plan to be able to carry out very concrete noise control. In the field of research, activities are also set up for environmental protection in the noise sector. I just remember the AMOS, Active Mastering of Sound. There will be completely new noise protection walls with active sound absorbers to counter even low frequency, i.e. long-waved noise produced primarily by diesel trucks. This is a noise that is hardly or very inadequately controlled by the existing noise protection walls. This means that massive measures will also be taken in the field of research to counteract the unpleasant aspects of noise for the population. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government really takes environmental protection very seriously: whether it be in the budget, whether it be with the increase in financial resources, whether it be due to the creation of framework conditions by means of the new noise protection law or also in the field of research, as I have just mentioned, so that the latest knowledge can be used in this environmental field. The Federal Government sets out concrete actions in order to maintain the high environmental standard in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4799	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. Facts against facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4848	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Achleitner has just said literally that she still remembers very well socialist ministers who have not done anything for noise protection, and she continued to say that in 1997 only € 5.1 million had been spent on noise protection on roads. Ladies and gentlemen, your memory is yours. The “Street Ministers” were always by the ÖVP and no socialist ministers, if you no longer need to know.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4885	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e4907	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Neudeck, it always depends on competence. We don't need ghaflhuber. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Was that the closing point?]] Two comments on the comments made by previous speakers: Mr Auer, we do not need to discover rural areas because most of us live in rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer]] Listen and marvel It's just you! It's you and your party that run out of rural space. [[Abg. Wittauer: Mrs Colleagues, now the fabric goes out to you!]] – Mr Wittauer gives calls in fixed volume again. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: On the basis of the statements made by my previous speakers, I have briefly thought about changing my speech concept, because your attacks on the opposition, when it comes to facts and figures, and when it comes to showing omissions, are actually air in empty space, but I remain proud that we are proud of our farmers in Austria, because they are an essential part of our society, our lives and above all our country. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wittauer: How much are these?]] In particular, they do excellent work under very difficult and very different conditions – conditions that are very differentiated to see. This is why farmers also need support and support, which also needs to be ensured very differentiatedly. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, farmers deserved the best representation of interest. [[Call the ÖVP: They have them!]] [[Abg. Hornek: You're right the second time!]] The fact that this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, shows that more and more farmers are absolutely dissatisfied with the current system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Which farmers?]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that more and more money is being made available to fewer farmers. [[Abg. Neudeck: But now you have counted cast builder on it!]] And this is absolutely unfair, because many farmers are looking through their fingers precisely because of this redistribution policy, Mr Wittauer. [[Abg. Wittauer: Mrs Colleague, you have no idea!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: You have nothing to do with agriculture!]] [[Abg. Reheis: Mr President! Wittauer's not in his place!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary that there is an effective and efficient agricultural policy. The closure of many farms is alarming above all. Around 4 300 agricultural and forestry holdings are closed each year. There are economic problems, there are no successors to the farm, and there are the lack of structures and perspectives in rural areas that make farmers no longer willing to take over a farm. Equal opportunities and equal opportunities for women and men in rural areas are also of absolute priority and would certainly be useful in this area. In this sense, Mr Minister, I urge you to take seriously the legitimate concerns of farmers, women and men in rural areas and to ensure justice and balance in rural areas, because, I quote my colleagues Bauer, the rural area is by no means a farmer's association.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5090	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5127	Mr Cap, I should like to thank Mr Gusenbauer as a farmer, or what is your wish? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Not even at the debate on agriculture, Gusenbauer is here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This environmental budget can be seen. It does not only provide for an increase in the 2005 budget to 2006 but also for a very high priority for this Federal Government of Environmental Protection, which is at its heart, and it also recognises that the financial resources have been almost doubled in the period 2000 to 2005. And this is probably not to be found in any other budget approach. Of course, the main focus of this environmental budget is on achieving the Kyoto objective. In principle, Austria has on average the lowest energy-related CO2 emissions per head – not Karlheinz, compared to Germany, the OECD and the EU. The emission intensity per inhabitants in Austria was 8.1 tonnes in 2001 compared with 10.32 tonnes in the Federal Republic of Germany, which is 20 percent more CO2 emissions in the Federal Republic of Germany than in Austria. The United States emits 19,84 tons per head. Unfortunately, this means a double value as high as in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore saying “unfortunately” because the United States, which causes 25 percent of CO2 emissions worldwide, would reduce its emissions to the value of Austria, which would mean a global reduction in pollutants by 12.5 percent. That is why it is our intention not only to strengthen our position in the environmental field, but to increase it massively. In Austria, the two areas cause space heating and transport, in particular individual transport, about 50 percent of pollutant emissions. It is therefore essential to put in place measures here in a priority line. The most important measure in this context is to save energy. That energy, which is not consumed, logically causes only little or no cost, and on the other hand it does not cause emissions. Therefore, it is highly useful to choose different contracting models to reduce the consumption of energy by measures which can mostly be achieved by small and medium-sized enterprises. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, the use of renewable energy sources is one of the most useful answers available here at all. In the area of space heating, Austria, especially agriculture and forestry, has already set many examples with various facilities such as district heating cooperatives and similar ones, so that today is a natural, everyday way. From today's technical point of view, there is the possibility of using wood pellets and thus bringing renewable energy into the house. In my view, the most important thing in this context is not only that it has a significant environmental aspect, but also that value added remains in Austria. But it was also referred to traffic, which is the area that concerns us most in terms of exhaust gases. Because more and more people are driving and thus developing into negative, it is a milestone that the Biofuel Directive in Austria is being implemented considerably more ambitiously than the European Union demands. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that until 2008, it will be possible to produce 500 000 tonnes of fuel itself in Austria, producing environmentally friendly, with Austrian technology. Ladies and gentlemen! I am firmly convinced that we are on the right track in Austria, and under the direction of our Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll will succeed in this respect one step after another. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5173	The next speaker is Mr Faul. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5194	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Wittauer has here today so great and so full-bodiedly conspired the turn and told us what has already moved and will continue to move: Hopefully, Mr Wittauer, you did not mean the armchairs of your FPÖ members who will be empty to be occupied by our Members. Would you rather you would have stayed there! That would be better for you. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not where we are concerned!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Scheuch has joined the speaker's desk here today and has re-emerged the old club of the class struggle. The only thing to do is to listen to Fritz Grillitschhat's speech today about all-world topics, but not about agriculture, especially about the promotions, because he fears that the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, the representatives of the economy – although they were not there – will be dissatisfied and that from there the criticism will come from their own ranks. [[Abg. Grillisch: But you didn't listen to that!]] The following, ladies and gentlemen, is clear: More than 70 percent of the value added is generated by small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. The money goes back to Brussels and to 85 percent, Mr. Federal Minister, to you and to the farmers. [[Abg. Grillisch: They don't do anything according to Moser!]] You have access, and with this budget you also have the last opportunity for rural areas to use those funds that were used in EU regional management – where the public hand, where entrepreneurs could bring out a value added – was parked and placed under your access. [[Abg. Grill: Are you saying this to the Moser?]] Mr. Federal Minister, to your slogan “The Bauer as an Entrepreneur”: 135 million are parked there, but there is no answer to the question of how you imagine it! Will you, with your farmers, also be subject to the rules of commerce? Will you also pay taxes there like an ordinary entrepreneur, an ordinary entrepreneur – or will you only compete with the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria? [[Abg. Wittauer:...! The economy against agriculture – we do not need it!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: We are talking about agriculture! ...! Let's be glad that there are... projects!]] We've read, they want to be: Mechanics, installers, they want to build houses – all around the economy. However, you did not say whether you would like to submit to the trade regulations on this issue, like all other entrepreneurs in Austria, and whether you would also like to deal with employees in Austria properly. [[Abg. Wittauer:...! That means nothing but that the Social Democrats want to abolish the promotions!]] Let me give you an example, Minister of State: In a supermarket in my home town, I have seen by chance that the agricultural cooperatives there within the framework of the machine ring take over cleaning services – without proper employment, without employment and actually in black space. [[Abg. Hornek: Hö, court, court!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] That's what we're going to look at in Weiz! You also have to face this competition in your own ranks.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5358	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. His preferred speaking time is also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5379	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A good day for the Leoben District – I welcome the senior government of the Leoben District present at the gallery! – begins with Euro-millions for the National Park Gesäuse. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Book]] Thank you very much to the coalition! [[Abg. Marizzi: And what about Spielberg?]] Theme Fine dust: Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Glavischnig made herself out of the dust, I see. [[Abg. Marizzi: Oh, that's it!]] Mr. Krainer made himself out of the dust, too, I see. A good example of this is that with red-green helicopter policy – that is to say, fly in with a lot of stuff, vortex up dust and, before there's something to work, be back there – there's no going on in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Does the head work as well?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We'll stick to the topic of fine dust! [[Abg. Brosz: Where does the head work right now?]] Let me give you a specific example, my colleague, let us stay with Vienna, and then let us go to the Styria. [[Abg. Brosz: Where does the head work right now?]] Today, by Mrs Glawischnig, I have not heard anything about environmental policy in Vienna, the colleague Sima. She is now the patron saint for an unacceptable environmental policy in Vienna! That's what I said once. A very concrete example from Vienna: ==References== The district has been destroyed for months by the building of the Austrian state printing company. In this district hundreds of children go to school. I'll tell you: If you live there, you won't find your car in the early days, so full of dust! – There is a demand for concrete environmental policy, and Mr Sima fails in a way that I personally would not have imagined. In contrast, the Styria: Package of measures decided – unanimously, ladies and gentlemen, with SPÖ, and fully implemented! These are measures such as reducing emissions from abrasion and congestion in transport, setting emission reduction measures in public transport, optimising and expanding the park-and-ride range and so on. Mr Seisinger of the ÖVP, the Environmental Council of Styria, shows how. If you need the phone number: 0316/8772210. This is where environmental policy is made, where one shows how to fight fine dust, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We're not going to go on with rabies, we're not going to get sick. [[Abg. Gradwell: The lightest method is always to change the limit values!]] We will ensure that the red-green raunzeck remains small, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5503	Next word: Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5525	Mr President. High house! Values listeners! Estimated Senior League Leoben! Mr Pröll, although you are pursuing a policy different from my own, I have so far met you as one of the few ministers who are at least committed to their commitments. Mr. Minister, you said at the Budget Committee meeting that you would answer the oral questions in writing. [[Abg. Neudeck: Is that an open letter?]] Unfortunately, I also had to find that only one of many questions was answered. That is why I shall now repeat four of them. First: Is it true that MAP is responsible for paratuberculosis in cattle, sheep, goats and other livestock? Secondly, Is paratuberculosis a danger to people from the Federal Ministry's point of view? Thirdly, Do you see paratuberculosis as a serious threat to cattle farming? Fourth: Is it true that, in the absence of paratuberculosis, Austrian exporters of beef and cattle have had economic problems with some importing countries? Mr. Minister! Consumers expect you to take confidence-building measures! [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Although the agricultural budget is pleased to increase by €21.6 million in 2006, or by 3 percent, surveys show that around 4 300 agricultural and forestry farms are abandoned each year. Correct Do you not mind if, at the same time, the budget costs for the entire area increase? This means: More and more money for less and less farmers, and as a result more and more criticism within farmers and in my area, in Vöcklabruck, also within the Farmers' Federal Officials.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5564	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5586	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is legitimate to thank the farmers of this country for the benefits they provide for society at the beginning of my speech today on the agricultural budget. They not only provide essential services for society, they also provide a wide range of services. The farmers of our country produce in a sustainable way according to the principle of the eco-social market economy and are responsible for it – in the positive sense – that we have food of the highest quality that the habitat is designed in the way we want it to, and in addition they still do very, very much cultural, social and other services. Everyone wants and appreciates these benefits, only: Thanks alone, farmers cannot live! That is why we need the resources from public budgets. Here, please, the principle: Performance – counter-performance. We farmers are not beneficiaries of social assistance and do not want to be pushed into this corner either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If a person does not provide income-enhancing assets, then he has lower yields, then he has higher production costs, and he will have that even if you want to, on 120. acres. That is why we must not differentiate. If we want the services from there, they will also have to be paid! At this point, I should like to add to Mr Pirklhuber's statement, which turns out to be here, for seven minutes, pretending that the green policy would be the policy that all farmers in our country want. That's how he at least presented it. I can ask Mr Pirklhuber how much percentage of farmers are actually behind his policy. He himself tried and candidates in Upper Austria for the agricultural chamber election, and he did not manage to get in there in my knowledge. The same thing in Salzburg: My colleague Heidemarie Rest-Hinterseer, who is personally very valued, has also been able to participate in the green policy in the election to represent interests. 1.8 percent of farmers voted in favour of green policy – 1.8 percent! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rest of interest.]] I can save you how much percent of the Farmers' Federation in Salzburg or especially in Lower Austria has gotten: Hermann Schultes over 90 percent! Of course, we have to ask ourselves: Where are the politicians who want to do something for the farmers? when I hear, for example, Mr Moser, who says farmers are paid for nothing! You must face this already vehemently, so that this will no longer happen in the future, because that is simply not right and should not happen. The government with Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Federal Minister Sepp Pröll has presented a budget draft, which is €62 million higher than in the previous year, which represents the the demands for a modern agricultural policy and is good for the people of Austria. That is why we will also agree to this draft budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5661	The next item is Mrs Walther's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5682	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The decline in the number of farms by more than 4,000 per year is also reflected in the Green Report. This is, of course, a precarious situation because this also means loss of jobs in rural areas and non-management of valuable land – areas that would be needed for domestic production on the one hand, but whose non-management would also cause damage to rural areas and to rural tourism on the other. These areas grow, as I have suggested several times, then close. This means that they bust that there are forests and that the diverse and beautiful landscape suffers damage – which of course also has an impact on tourism and on the guests who want to get there because they simply want to admire the beautiful area of a region and spend their vacation there. I point out, as I have done several times, that, in this context, I should like to return to the South Styria, where the good wine regions are, of course, intensively managed, but the valleys and the shady areas are not managed. In particular, small farmers have now entered the ÖPUL and these funding rails and are trying to manage and maintain these worse locations through the farm premiums, including for the cultural landscape. Federal Minister! I believe that a number of things have gone out of the row with the reports on the farm premium regulation which have been sent out to the farmers in recent weeks. I have received several requests from really desperate farmers, who have said they will not get anything now because they have expanded these areas. That's what they did after 2002, and that means they're now falling through the rust. I believe that there is an urgent need for action here and that these decisions or the oppositions raised against them must be dealt with urgently in order not to provoke the need for other small farmers to stop because they are no longer granted via ÖPUL and through the single payment regulation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5716	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. Requested time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5737	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of Austrian environmental policy is to maintain and develop high environmental standards. The sustainable environmental policy of this Federal Government is also reflected in the 2006 federal proposal. We must act responsibly and have the moral obligation to pass on an intact environment to future generations. One of the most important tasks of environmental policy in the coming years is the achievement of climate change and Kyoto objectives. In order to achieve these ambitious objectives, we need to deal with energy in particular in a economical and efficient way. It is important to take forward-looking ways of combining economic growth and jobs with environmental objectives. Acting within a manageable framework should also be pursued here in order not to lose sight of medium-term objectives. Supporting climate-related projects, for example under the “Climate Active” programme. This thermal rehabilitation programme serves to implement the national climate strategy, includes a huge potential for job creation and supports further development in the areas of renewable energy, construction and housing. My federal state, the country of Upper Austria, is also taking a forward-looking path here. In the context of Upper Austria's housing development, favourable conditions have already been created for comprehensive energy renovations. So far, some 200 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents per year have been saved through energy-saving incentives for housing development. First, the urban water transport system ensures the orderly disposal of industrial and municipal waste water as well as the adequate supply of the population with hygienically perfect drinking water. As a long-standing mayor, I have always been concerned about ensuring sustainable use of the water resource in the area of urban water management and the necessary resources from the federal government. Austria stands for excellent water quality. In order to improve and maintain this water quality, around € 313 million in grants for investment promotions are foreseen in the Federal estimates 2006. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This federal government stands for sustainable environmental policy. However, environmental networking requires that environmental protection be promoted to an increased extent at global level too. At national level, we have set a further building block for stabilising the high environmental standards in Austria with the 2006 budget – which is about 2.4 percent of gross domestic product for the environment. I therefore welcome the environmental chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5785	Mr Reheis has been mentioned as the next speaker. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5807	Madam President. Dear Member of the Federal Government! The Halleluja vote, which is constantly being expressed in the field of agriculture and the environment by the members of the government and government, is slowly becoming really unbearable, because the opposite is true. [[Abg. Ell Wall: 2.4 percent of GDP is high across Europe! Take note of this!]] There are always blames here in the house. As regards, for example, dealing with environmental problems, there are always the other culprits, only: You, who are in the government, do not do anything to improve the situation here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am mayor of the town of Imst, and we now have a status survey on the fine dusts concerning PM-10 values: In 2003, the limit values were exceeded in my community on 93 days. And we know that a maximum of 35 excesses are possible. It does not help us at all if we point with our finger to the land, to the covenant or wherever we go, but it is necessary that we all move on together. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's what we're saying!]] I ask for a national working group here with all the national and federal authorities to be the master of this problem, because otherwise we will not continue to do so at all. PM 10 is the current limit under the EU Directive. Do you know where we're going now? We're heading towards PM 2.5. And what does PM 2.5 mean? – That is, the whole country of Austria will be a rehabilitation area. But PM 10, PM 2,5, that does not mean that these pollutants stop at the borders – municipal, state, federal borders. This is a European problem. Minister, I ask you: What are you doing in Europe? What are you doing there? Although the directives are being adopted, we do not hear anything from accompanying measures as regards transit as regards transport in the area of rail development, ladies and gentlemen. And that's what I'm asking for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Now the Minister is already responsible for the whole of Europe!]] As far as district heating is concerned, I think more needs to be done. Something else that we may be able to do in our own field – it only goes step by step – so that we can be the master of this problem: The unfiltered exhaust air of the motorway tunnels contributes to an important part of the fine dust load, as stated by an expertise of the Health Office of the Imst District Headquarters. I therefore call for a massive increase in the use of state-of-the-art air filters in the motorway tunnels. This is also a part of reducing this burden. Diesel particle filters, this is not only a topic for diesel cars, but also for diesel trucks, construction vehicles et cetera. And in this context, the question also arises: What happens to the buses and buses of public passenger transport? Here too there is a need for action, and, above all, in addition to the measures to reduce these fine dusts, of course, it is called for the expansion of public transport. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to continue on this issue together and without any debt allocations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5882	The next speaker was Mrs Machne. Also for them 3 minutes of welcome speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5903	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spring is there, it gets warmer, the air movement is increasing – and the air is getting better again. Thank God, because we certainly have an air problem, especially in the urban area, in Imst as well as in Lienz, but also in other areas of Austria. [[Abg. May. Posch: In Lienz!]] The problem of fine dust is very important in us; it has been discussed in detail in the past. [[Abg. May. Posch: Take responsibility for this!]] – Yes, I like to take over them and I have also liked to take over them. I'll tell you why. [[Abg. May. Posch:... She's very bad in Lienz!]] We have overstretched fine dust values in Lienz over and over again, and this has several causes: It is once the traffic, but above all it is the inversion weather situation, which is particularly effective in the valley floor, as is the case in Lienz, especially in winter. It must be said that the fine dust overruns take place especially in December and January, especially when the air is very quiet. But a contaminant is certainly the fire of the house. Two years ago I told the House about our biomass heat plant, and I am of course pleased that Mr Imst, too, has built one and made the groundwork. I can only say that's really a success story. We have now increased from 35 megawatts to 60 megawatts. We provide 90 percent of the Lienzer households and objects and have already connected the surrounding communities. In addition, we now have our own hack cutting preparation and are able to take over a lot of hacks from the farmers, and can produce 20,000 bulkroom meters themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This makes us less dependent on the wood industry and, of course, also generate income for our farmers. What may also be important to mention is the fact that we are saving 6 million gallons [6 million liters] of fuel oil a year. This is not very little, and I believe that we are making a very, very big contribution to the environment and achieving the Kyoto objective. We also create local jobs. Our Federal Minister Pröll has recognized the signs of time and increased the funds to achieve the Kyoto target by €30 million annually. Mr Reheis also said: Each of us can be active in his constituency here and ensure that more and more biomass heat plants are built in his constituency. In East Tyrol we do this, and I try to make it clear to my mayors that this is a very good thing. That is how we can contribute to the environment. Our Federal Minister is doing this. We are at the forefront of Europe, and he will ensure that we remain at the forefront and perhaps get even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5972	Next, Mr Wimmer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5994	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The agricultural budget will be increased by €62 million in 2006. Farmers are one of the few professional groups who are lucky to benefit from 2006 and are one of the winners. More money is available to them in 2006, and I say quite openly and honestly that this is in principle very positive and very pleasing. Not pleased, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that despite the increased use of funds, the structural break in agriculture simply cannot be stopped, simply cannot be reversed: Every year, 4 600 farmers lose their existence, 4 600 farmers have to leave their farms. That means, although more and more money is available, although more and more money is spent, this trend cannot be stopped. There is already a question of whether this path, which is going on here, which is massively represented by the ÖVP, is really the right one. I say to you: of course not, otherwise there would be other results here. I say to you from this point of view: As long as this unjust support system is not put on the head, this structural problem cannot be addressed. The Federal Minister said that the funding was fair and fair. Federal Minister! Is it really fair that there are still funding millionaires? Is it fair that more than 700 businesses receive more than one million schilling, that is, €72 000 a year, that more than 5,000 farms receive more than €36 000? I believe that this is simply not fair, and that is also the reason why the small farms cannot survive, because they are excluded from this support. The fact that the satisfaction of the farmers is a bit limited is seen to mean that communities of interest shoot out of the ground like the swams. I have heard that such a community of interests, which is committed to higher milk prices, has also been established in my district. I was quite surprised when I saw that a former ÖVP officer was their leader. Last year Leo Steinbichler was still sitting in the Federal Council for the ÖVP, now he locks the streets because of low milk prices. But that's what you've got to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an appeal, specifically to the farmers' representatives: Think about it at last! Finally, make a promotion system that is really fair, so that the small farms can survive too! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6039	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But he's not in the hall!]] This is next to me on the list of speakers. – There's a renomination, as I'm told. Mr Keussnigg is speaking next time. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6084	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Mr Pirklhuber has just arrived, because I appreciate the dialogue in discussions. Mr Pirklhuber, you have criticized some of the agricultural policy, especially that there are supposedly too few programmes for organic farming or too little financial preview. I would like to say that Austria is a recognised and by far the top leader in the organic farming industry in Europe. And we have actually done this in order to formulate it politely without necessarily depending on the advice of the Greens. [[Abg. Gradwell: May we get better?]] - Yes, absolutely! [[Call the World Champion at the ÖVP!]] Secondly, you have talked about the desperation of some farmers in the implementation of this agricultural reform. I would like to say to the SPÖ and to everyone here in the house: We are implementing the biggest agricultural reform. The whole system is being put on the head, and, of course, not only the farmers are required, but also the administration is to the most extent required. This is a huge project! But we realize this project, rely on it, and we realize it with the trust of the farmers! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But it's not constitutional, what you're doing! That's the problem!]] My colleague, Mr Eßl, has already pointed out: They say this in view of the results of the chamber elections of Salzburg and Lower Austria! That will become more and more minority statements! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Take a look at the election! Farmers are frustrated!]] This may be intellectually sharp, what you are saying here, but it obviously does not take a foothold on the basis of the farmers, otherwise there would be other election results. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] – You are stealing valuable seconds here, Mr. Cot. The agricultural budget consists of a mix of direct payments that has been proven for years, investment support, structural support, and market development. We want farms that produce healthy food in accordance with nature. However, we also want farms that offer good jobs, which allow farmers' families good and comparable incomes. You are forcing me, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, to make the same statement over and over again; I know that is boring, but you repeat it again and again, sadmer, gasser, wicker. I'll tell you: It is not a question of large/small in Austrian agriculture. Of course, it is true that many small farms, but also medium-sized and larger ones, stop. Of course, we have a very hard struggle in agriculture. This is about thousands of rural existences. You should not have this stencil-like big/small discussion, but talk more about the reasons. Not large/small, not the support you are devoting to us, is the reason for the situation, yes, on the contrary, the promotion is recognized to inhibit structural change in Austria, preserves the structures. But what is the reason for problems is prices, prices for the benefit of consumers. We have cost of living of 12 percent now, and this pressure of the market, the conditions, the regulations, this pressure cannot withstand many small businesses. Unfortunately, the time has come for this dialogue to take place. – In conclusion: I believe that this budget commitment, which Austria is working in agriculture, will receive the Republic of Austria and will receive Austrian society a hundred times back.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6169	The next item is the report by Mr Gradwelt. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6191	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! On the basis of my short speaking time, only a few comments have been made. Point one, Mr Keussnigg: The dialogue would be important, and we would have always sought dialogue, because all these decisions on the common agricultural policy have been made by the Minister of Agriculture on the one hand, the Federal Farmers' Confederation and the Bureau of the Federal Farmers' Confederation on the other. Even a subcommittee here in the house who wanted to deal with the subject because the parliamentarians wanted to participate, you just died cold. That's fact, and that's the bad thing on the one hand. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Keussnigg, on the other hand, is bad about the situation: It is not about large and small, I give you the right, but it is about fair distribution, and this fair distribution is not taking place in Austria. The Green Report proves it every year! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since the talk here is that only criticism is made and no proposals are being made, I repeat it like this: Mr Federal Minister, you have a working time study in your department, which could be used as a support basis, and which could be very well maintained. Single: They refuse to use them. If proposals are on the table, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, then you act as if they were not present. Not even ignoring is the foreign exchange, to say that there are no proposals. Shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The next point: It has already been mentioned to block more than 4 300 agricultural and forestry holdings in Austria each year. At the same time, there will be less 3 800 jobs in agriculture and forestry during this period. We have a situation that cannot be happy. In an interview with the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, Mr. Bürger Federal President Grillitsch said that he did not go at union level. [[The speaker shows a newspaper section.]] - I'll give him the right. He can't do that, because the peasantry is not an extra-party union. But the farmers and farmers would be very happy if they went to union level and negotiated for them. Then it would not be necessary for an IG milk to be established. It would then not be necessary for the working group to be set up in order to ensure the fair distribution of the common agricultural support for farmers who are no longer satisfied with the representation. High house! I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister, you have a chance: We will soon – hopefully! – another meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, in which we could talk about it. We could provide more justice here – if you want to. We're on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6300	The motion for a resolution by Mr Gradwelt and Mr Gaßner, which has just been tabled by Parliament, has been sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. Ladies and gentlemen, how much time have I been allowed to give you? [[Abg. Steindl: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 3 minutes!]] - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6337	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Federal Government has been trying for years – and this successfully! – to implement the national climate strategy with concrete measures, with timetables, with a sufficient budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! It's really cheap polemics if you always blame the Federal Government here for sluggishness in environmental measures. I can remind you of some of the measures recently taken by the Federal Government. First: Ratification of the Kyoto objective is an important measure for the State community, because we all know that environmental pollution is a global challenge and does not stop at national borders. The second is the emissions-certificate trade, which makes an important contribution to reducing these emissions, these carbon dioxide emissions. ==References== January 2004 the sulphur-free fuel is an important building block for environmental relief. Strict emissions regimes in industrial authorisation procedures have been on the agenda in Austria for many years and many industrial companies are also making competition problems. It is not always easy to meet these strict requirements. The promotion of diesel particle filters is another element in order to perhaps get better control of the fine dust load in particular – with the fine dust load not only from the traffic, but also other factors and issuers to be fixed. The addition of about 5 percent bio-fuel is also an important component for reducing fossil fuels and energy types. Various measures in countries, such as regional tempo limits and so on, also help to reduce fine dust pollution. I have just shown you a small number of measures that really make it clear that everything is going to be done to bring Austria forward here. Mr Pröll, I have the highest regard for the measures you have taken and the environmental policy you have taken, which will certainly continue to bring us forward in the environmental balance.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6389	The next item is the report by Mr Steier. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6410	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The year 2005 is only three months old, and in Austria's former environmental model country has already been used up in some federal states the total annual quotas on permissible fine dust crossings. After all, the problem of growing fine dust pollution and its health effects has been a topic for some time now; new – and also little original – response from the federal government to the dramatic developments of the past months. The Austrians are completely amazed to see the depraved spectacle of the fine dust-responsibility pingpong between the federal government and countries. The Ministry of the Environment reports that the responsibility lies in fine dust pollution with the countries, and that is not wrong, with the solution of the problem of fine dust left alone and also overshadowed by the countries. Minister for the Environment, Tactics, mainly to play the “black Peter” to the countries, is not particularly suitable for getting to grips with the problem of fine dust pollution! At the fine dust – we know that! – this is a trans-regional problem, and it also applies nationally, as Mr Reheis has said. I believe – and this impression you give – that with regard to the fine dust problem, too much dust hinders your clear view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even if Immission Protection is implemented at the level of the countries, the Federal Government has the possibility of setting up appropriate standards. The dramatic development of fine dust pollution is far too big to simply shift responsibility, Mr Environment Minister! A strategic steering discussion with all the parties involved would therefore be really aimed at, and the request in question from us, who is in Parliament, to give the appropriate support. Noise is a similar problem. Since yesterday, there is a Council of Ministers decision to push ahead with the implementation of the EU Noise Protection Directive. Here too – and this is a clear goal and should all of us actually move together – one has to remove the division of competence between the federal government and countries in order to implement effective measures to protect the quality of life of our people. Therefore, the responsibilities must not be a cover-up between the individual culprits. Here, action is required, here it is necessary to give people the appropriate protection. People have a right to it! Therefore, Minister: All commitment to environmental protection remains worthless when policy is pressing ahead with the implementation of appropriate measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6462	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6483	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! As an entrepreneur in a rural region, let me address one of the biggest challenges in the coming years: rural areas, regional policies. Even though the rural area is mainly located in the Ministry of Agriculture, we agree on the subject of the ÖVP: The rural area is more! He is a habitat for old and young, workplace, school and training. My motto and my conviction: Working in the country means living on the Country – whether in the field, kindergarten or commercial. What we need is sustainable development, a clear answer to a globalised egoism society. The future task is, therefore, to look at rural areas holisticly, but not only from community to community, but that goes so far that the city needs the country and the country strong cities. And because you accuse us of the opposition, we would always talk bad about Germany – there are good things too! This is how the Academy writes rural space in one of its works – I quote –: “The country has a future” when many move on. “... there are equally serious opportunities and new opportunities for rural areas as a result of changes in values, new technologies, rural tourism growth, etc. More than ever, the rural area itself has to be active and give a massive hearing to national and European policies and society. The objective must be to demand and promote a strong awareness of an independent rural area." ‘Between city and country, a stronger dialogue must be conducted with a view to closer cooperation and mutual recognition. Both sides should be borne and fulfilled by the knowledge of being conciliatory and having equal rights.” – Quotes. But please not too early, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: This work is not a red-green federal government, because the Academy is the Bavarian Academy of Rural Space, and in Bavaria there is nothing to talk about. I would like to see regions in which agriculture cooperates with commercial and commercial enterprises that give people, and above all women, a job in the nearer environment – closeness in this case means quality of life for our families – regions where there is reasonable local care through cooperation and networking. This Federal Government is on a very good path in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! We from the EIA are committed to the diversity of rural areas, to the strength of the regions – as a clear answer to the attempt of a single world without culture.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6538	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6560	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There has now been a lot of talk about the rural area and it has been said that it has been discovered so to speak. The fact is that rural social democrats have always been a concern to us. We have actually started to establish the ÖROK in 1971, so that rural areas can be treated in a scientific and regional manner. So I'd really warn you to act like something's gonna happen right now. As a person who intensively deals with rural areas, for example, what can be read in a publication of the Eco-Social Forum on the Future of the Communities and the Regions, I say that the rural area is not strengthened by thinning, just as it is now, but by appropriate measures to strengthen the regions. This means that we have to ask ourselves whether all the centralizations that are currently running really have to go in this direction. The rural area is only strong if there is a high internal value added and there is also a corresponding distribution. However, I would also like to mention - the Minister for the Environment rightly cited this - that we are spending 2.4% of the gross domestic product on environmental protection. This is a remarkable value, which shows that environmental policy has been pursued in Austria for many decades. No government is discovering environmental protection again, and no government is disbanded from what was to be judged. We have indeed pursued a very strong environmental policy in Austria, but I note, Federal Minister, that a “environmental policy in the backward direction” is now being pursued in many areas. [[Abg. Hornek: Colleagues, there are heights and there are depths!]] There are other areas which are quite positive, for example the water industry. However, as someone who had been in charge of this for a long time in Lower Austria, I must say that there was also an extension of the extension period in this area. Originally, the full expansion should be achieved in 2010 and this goal is now being postponed to 2015 – this cannot be described as a positive contribution to environmental policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the urban water industry, good work is being done, and the many projects – from 1993 to 2004 there were over 18,000 with an investment volume of around 11 billion! – have a significant impact on the regional economy. I also believe that this period will bring the necessary degree of expansion by 2015, although, as already mentioned, a faster pace, as originally planned, would be preferable to me. Dear ladies and gentlemen! What I would like to mention here is the forced use of flood protection buildings. There are many communities that, for example, would be pre-financed but not allowed. The reason for this is the internal Stability Pact, but people have nothing to do with the limitations, but they simply want flood protection. I think that a lot of things could be forced in this area, for example, by allowing special funding for flood protection. I would also like to encourage a stronger emphasis on groundwater protection, which is urgently needed for the future. In conclusion: Environmental policy should be strengthened in the future from the importance for the quality of life of people and for the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6602	The next item is the friend of the honourable Member. Mr deputies, you too have 3 minutes of welcome speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6624	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The present budget proposal for the Environment and Agriculture chapter is under discussion here today. This budget shows that our Federal Government is at the heart of the environment, agriculture and rural areas. The Austrian agricultural budget will be increased by 3 percent to €2.11 billion in 2006. This gives the Austrian farmers safety and planning. Our farmers benefit from this increase in the form of an increase in the milk premium, co-financing in the field of rural development and the increase in national agricultural support. I am particularly pleased that the so-called 3-billion package will be secured by the year 2006. I would like to highlight the promotion of rural development measures, which will create jobs. Next year, € 30 million will be spent more than this year on rural areas. Mr Bauer von der SPÖ: We are not thinning out the rural area, but we are strengthening it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Weak applause!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress once again the importance of compensatory payments, investment promotions and environmental programmes for the traditionally small and medium-sized Austrian agriculture. And I am glad that the Austrian Federal Government does not forget the farmers – on the contrary: Since 1995, €12 billion has been spent in rural development in Austria; 5.2 billion of these came from the EU. I am convinced that every farm that gives up farming means a great loss for rural areas, because agriculture is not just a food producer, ladies and gentlemen. Each farm also means jobs, landscape management, the creation of rural infrastructure and investment in the regional economy. We are committed to this, the People's Party and the Farmers' Federation! I know that you do not appreciate these benefits of farmers from the SPÖ, and I come back to what Mr Moser said on the so-called EU Committee: [[Abg. Binder: You didn't listen, my colleague.]] That agriculture is paid by us for nothing and has no effect on employment in Austria. – I am really sorry that such a thing is said by your side, and I would like to point this out. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We must ensure that the competitiveness and thus the survival of Austrian farmers will continue to be ensured at increased price pressure in the future, as international pressure on the markets will certainly not be reduced. And the rural youth also needs a perspective for the future in agriculture. With this budget and with the expansion of the investment support programmes from 2007 on, this is, of course, further guaranteed, and I thank Mr Pröll for being able to secure the funds required for the environmental programme for 2006. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This budget estimate is intended to cover Austrian agriculture by means of the environmental programme, compensatory payments and the promotion of rural development. All of this brings a strengthening of the rural area and also of our so important agriculture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6688	Next came Mr Oberhaidinger. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6710	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Karl Freund, I believe your explanations. I know you mean it. Only: Unfortunately, reality looks very different from God. Tags for this have already been mentioned many times today. So the actual development is the opposite of what you want. Mr Federal Minister, I have been here at least the five times the 15a agreement with the federal states, at last it became reality. It was also high time, as a recent study by the Research Society for Living, Building and Planning shows. This study was published in the magazine “Haus und Grund”, which belongs to the houseowners’ association, which is not close to us, the opposition parties at least. This study was published in March of this year. So it's a very recent study. This study showed, among other things, that expenditure on renovations has stagnated at 22 percent for a decade. There really needs to be a corresponding incitement. Since 2001, housing aid could be used to achieve the Kyoto objectives. However, this area, which is demonstrated in this study, unfortunately does not have a dynamic effect and has actually only been established in Vienna so far. – Quote from this study, not my assessment, but it is a very comprehensive and very deep study. It is considered particularly important to use the contribution of housing support to achieve Kyoto objectives. The greatest potential for reducing greenhouse gases lies in the area of space heating alone and thus thermal renovation. In 2000, 40 percent of the EU's energy expenditure was consumed in residential and commercial buildings. The potential for savings up to 2010 – you hear and marvel! – 22 percent. Mr Minister for Agriculture, you know that I am particularly concerned that eco-electric production is not confused with agricultural support in your region, because not everything that produces heat is also environmentally friendly. I should like to point out that, unfortunately, especially small-scale biomass plants have a very high share of fine dust production – Mr Hornek, you can convince yourself, I also know that you know about them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] The negative effects on people in our country and the environment have already been adequately addressed. Minister for Agriculture, you have today received a back mirror for your back-up policy in environmental policy, so that nothing does not happen to you; yet, in the sense of a good environmental policy, it would be high time to take a step forward and improve the environmental situation at the appropriate pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6767	The next speaker was Mr Sieber. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6788	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The challenges faced by farmers are increasing. The pressure to remain competitive is also constantly increasing. The policy was and is constantly required to provide answers. If we look at agricultural policy in recent years, we will soon see how much has been done. At this point, our Federal Minister Sepp Pröll and his predecessor Willi Molterer are certainly grateful to us, who, with their tireless commitment to our farmers, have succeeded in developing a financial basis and framework that gives our farmers clear opportunities for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is unfortunate that the Greens have obviously agreed on this discussion, because if only three words are included in the chapters on the environment and agriculture, this is really very significant. Above all, you have made allegations in these statements and have not made any proposals. Really sad! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: With us, not every farmer has to talk for two minutes!]] We farmers contribute to our society free of charge, from which all groups, especially tourism, benefit. We should remove the word “promotions, ” ladies and gentlemen, from our vocabulary and instead replace it with the word “performance fees”. That would be a request to the whole house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So the work of the farmer is very closely associated with many other economic sectors. We must not forget one thing: If the farmers suffer badly, then other professional groups suffer from it. After all, some 600 000 jobs are directly or indirectly linked to agriculture. The pressure on our farmers has become and is increasing recently, because on the one hand, it is important to supply consumers with excellent, healthy and environmentally friendly products, but on the other hand, all of this should be done at the lowest possible prices. Quality, however, cannot be at the lowest prices! I therefore call on all political groups to support the “Taste of Homeland”, an initiative of the Austrian Farmers’ Federation with our President Fritz Grillitschan, with which the relevant public information work is being carried out so that our farmers can achieve fair and fair income. Remember: If we could increase the sales of domestic quality products by only 10 percent, it would create around 20 000 new jobs – a clear win-win situation. Safety and planning in a rapidly changing world are values of great importance to our businesses, which also offers them the agricultural policy of this government and our Minister Sepp Pröll. As I come from a region in Vorarlberg near the German border, I am friends with many professional colleagues in Germany. The mood and the situation there is difficult to describe. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: They're going very badly!]] Future fears and missing prospects are the result of a missing red-green agricultural policy. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig: Do the German and Italian farmers also have fears of the future?]] Owners of farms in best agricultural favours are forced to throw the towel. Excessive labour loads and the lack of opportunities for a follow-up of businesses drive the businesses out to thousands. This development, too, which Minister Renate Künast of the Greens is responsible for, contributes to the sadst overall German situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] In Austria too, the agricultural policy is facing major challenges. Let us just think about the implementation of the CAP reform! That is why it is also such a success that our Minister Sepp Pröll has succeeded in ensuring that all the resources we can co-financed by Brussels can actually be used during the budgetary negotiations. This 3-billion package gives our farmers future security and planning. I would like to thank you, Mr Minister, for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6882	The next item is the speech by Mrs Fleckl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6903	Madam President. Minister! Feindust and Temelín stand for the missing environmental policy of the ÖVP. "Previewing" is a foreign word to you, Minister, client policy is a synonym for ÖVP! [[Abg. Grill: Who says that?]] The disastrous climate balance of the Austrian Federal Government would require urgent measures to reduce CO2 taxation. However, all you think of it, Mr Federal Minister, is one of the most expensive ways to operate climate protection, namely the use of biofuels. Biosprit is too expensive, environmentally inefficient and its use in Austria is quite impossible. [[Abg. Lens: Let's be glad we got him!]] The Minister of Finance is only pleased about Biosprit, because he then shrinks the commuters who drive non-biofuels again. You certainly don't achieve environmental-friendly effects in Austria, Mr. Minister! The figures speak for themselves. In 2004, 1.034 hectares of rape were harvested for diesel production – a rather low yield, considering that a maximum of 1,000 to 1 100 litres of biosprit can be obtained per hectare. This means that most of the biodiesel processing in Austria already has to be imported. If one wanted to ensure exclusively domestic production, a quarter of the area of Austrian arable land would have to be used for rape cultivation. I do not have to explain to you as Minister of Agriculture. Or would you like to introduce rape cultivation in every species of slums? [[Abg. Hornek: Such a fool!]] Biosprit does not bring decisive benefits to the economy or to climate. In this, as you know, Mr Minister, even the experts agree. The only ones to benefit from it are industrial farms, so Their clients, Mr Minister, because small-scale farms, as we find them in the district, are not supported by this. [[Abg. Hornek: That's bullshit!]] Mr Minister, you deceive the Austrians once again as so-called Environment Minister! Emission reduction by biofuel promotion is a loss with the costs incurred and serves only to favour industrial agriculture. Once again, you are pretending to act on the environment. They lower the mineral oil tax on bio-sprit while at the same time increasing the tax on non-biofuels. [[Abg. Hornek: That's cockbucks!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Who put this speech on you?]] This pays for the broad mass of consumers, such as, for example, the commuters. [[Abg. Hornek: Yes, are you now for environmental protection or against it?]] Mr Minister, it is a shame that you do not assume your responsibility as Minister for the Environment. It is a pity that you do not take real measures to protect climate. Once again, you show that you are going back to the environmental policy tombs of Austria. For Austria, I would like you, as Minister for the Environment, to be able to achieve the success you have achieved as Minister of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7033	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Schools. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7055	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It would be very interesting to reply to the previous speaker, but I have to talk to you today about the 2006 budget. An important point that will be decided and perhaps budgetaryly effective this year is the question of reforming the EU sugar market system. I also have a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schultes, Mr Scheuch, Mr Gradwohl and Mr Pirklhuber, which concerns the reform of the EU sugar market and the Austrian position. In the sugar world there is the European sugar world that has been building on sugar beet for 200 years, there is the traditional sugar cane sugar world – Cuba, Mauritius – and there are new, Brazil, which has become a very big player in this area next to Thailand and other countries. This “revolving sugar cane growing”, as it is handled in Brazil, is very aggressive and is very strongly forced. Brazil is already producing the triple sugar produced by Europe as a whole. With this market power, everyone else is pushing it to the edge. There are strong forces in the European Commission to open up the European market for sugar of this origin. If that is the case, what happened in Cuba will happen: Cuba once produced 7 million tonnes of sugar, but today only produces one and a half million tonnes, because its sugar cane is also not competitive against the Brazilian cultivation methods. Therefore, in our motion for a resolution, we have proposed the most important points of a reasonable reform imposed by the WTO, because we know that in Europe we are securing a great many jobs in rural regions, especially in the sugar sector. This concerns agriculture, industry and the downstream and downstream sectors. We know that there is a need for reform, but this reform should build on the reasonable and decades-long proven criteria of European production. That is to say, there must be a reasonable quantity regime, a reasonable structural reform – that is why we need a structural reform fund to finance it – and a reasonable social and environmental criteria for the exercise of the sugar industry or the care of the sugar industry in Europe. We have very high standards. We have developed these standards in the companies with the employees, farmers in the fields, in product quality and also with very reasonable prices in decades. All of this is at stake! All of this will be discussed at European level in the near future! The European Parliament has given very good opinions on this. The Austrian Parliament is now seeking to support this four-party proposal and to decide with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7107	The just from Deputie Ing. The motion for a resolution put forward by Schultes was presented in his key points and presented in writing. On the basis of its scope, I leave it according to § 53 para. 4 Copy and distribute GOG. Of course, it is also sufficiently supported, is under negotiation and will be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7296	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7318	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to address the issue of the anti-atomic policy of this Federal Government and, in particular, the problem of the temelín nuclear power plant. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the policy of the Federal Government in this area, particularly with regard to Temelín, has made a serious step back. I mean, this policy is on the way back at Temelín. This is also the reason why many people, especially in the rural region of the Mühlviertel, have been very uncertain and very scared since the last few months. I believe that this fear is right, but there are already over 75 pans in this nuclear power plant. This is also the reason why the population there is uncertain. Mr Minister, take note – you, of course, together with Federal Chancellor Schüssel, bear the main responsibility for this – that you have not managed to dispel our neighbours in the Czech Republic from this terrible project to launch the Temelín nuclear power plant! So you can and must also say that the Milk Agreement has actually failed completely, ladies and gentlemen! Despite this agreement, there are no improvements in the field of security. That is why I say, Minister Pröll – I repeat –: You have failed with your Chancellor's bowl with the milker's agreement! These 77 pans speak for it and clearly show why this milker agreement, as mentioned above, has failed. Mr Minister, you have referred to the last Committee on Budgets and you have asked why the opposition is so excited, there has been no approval, there has not yet been the possibility of approval of Temelín. – Minister! You were ill-informed! You're ill-informed! There are – you hear! – the approval of the State Nuclear Safety Authority since October 2004 with regard to the full operation and permanent operation of the first block. I have, of course, translated the Czech note into German, Minister! It's up there. You did not tell us the truth in the committee. You said in committee: There's no notice yet for Temelín. Mr. Minister, there's a message! [[The speaker shall keep the said document up to date.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll beats hands over the head.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Does he not know himself, Minister?]] Since October there has been the full and permanent operation in Temelín. I would like to forward to you this notice, from which you can see that the State Nuclear Safety Authority has approved the full operation of the Temelín nuclear power plant. Ladies and gentlemen, and in particular Mr Minister, it is now time! Since we had to take note that you had nothing to do with our neighbours, we ask you to discuss this issue together with the Federal Chancellor at EU level, in particular on the exit scenarios for Temelín, and to submit a proposal to that effect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7389	The next speaker is Mr Rädler. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7410	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Step back, standstill, speed kills – these are the keywords we have heard in recent weeks, in the last days in this debate from your side. [[Abg. Krainer: These are your keywords! It's from Khol!]] You say this at a plus of € 36 million for the environmental budget and an increase rate of plus 8 percent in this budget chapter! – I wonder: What are we doing in the committees? They have all made positive contributions to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We have achieved a top value in the European ranking in environmental policy: Let us be proud of it and let the left half of the empire make you not mistaken about environmental policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this regard, it is pressing for a comparison which the German Chancellor Kohl once said: Those millions of Germans, who are always frustrated in the summer in the direction of vacation in far eastern countries, are all happy to come back when they see the standards in these countries. – We should therefore also be proud of our environmental policy. On the other hand, however, we should not go – as Mr Pirklhuber did – and say: We need to put more pressure on the countries. – Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you are the right representative of agricultural policy at all! When I look at the results of the agricultural chamber election in my district, in Wiener Neustadt, I see: Of 7 075 candidates, 35 have elected the Greens. 35 Greens! You can be proud of it! You all know your voters by their first name! That is the advantage. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] But it is not a right to raise the floor here on agricultural policy, I would say. - That's the one side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: You can't tell that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] On the other hand, I think, Lower Austria has done a lot: Lower Austria is Umweltbundesland number one. If I see the comparison of the federal states, alone with regard to the fine dust discussion, then for Lower Austria – we know that the transports from the eastern countries take place there – 39 days on which the fine dust load at the measuring point in Wiener Neustadt and in Hainburg – these are those that are at the border – is above the limit value. In comparison, it is in Linz, in Upper Austria, 100 limit values per year. There is an environmental responsible person to be assigned to your site, who has nothing to say for the fine dust load but: We have to put pressure on this in Brussels. That's not a policy! Don't go this way! Continue with us, with the Black F – “F” for friends – government for a good environmental policy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7487	Mr Rädler, I do not think you meant it that way, but, of course, in this House every Member can refer to all things and speak. [[Abg. Wheelers: If he's the corresponding...!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Take a seat!]] The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7529	Madam President. Mr. Minister! The present draft budget chapter of the environment brings little new – as we have already heard – and shows very clearly that environmental policy is also in decline. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] In my view, what is missing is budget resources for the tasks that the Minister for the Environment has been pressing for a long time. I would like to point out that there are some important issues in Austrian environmental policy which are already a problem and which clearly show that they will remain a problem in the longer term or in the long term. There, for example, Mr Minister, would be a necessary rehabilitation concept for the problem of fine dust, for which the federal government has passed the responsibility for a federal law noble by law to the countries and communities without subscribing the budget for implementation. Second, for example, it would be appropriate to demonstrate that funds for the purchase of project-related emission reductions from abroad are spent optimally on a national basis. In the course of the purchase negotiations, only whether the projects meet the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol and the results of Marrakech have been examined. However, the assessment of the economic impact of this transfer of budget resources abroad is currently completely lacking. This is why, I believe, this area is still very good for improvement. Mr Minister, your amendments to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act have led to a deterioration in the participation of citizens in the EIA process. The disassembly of the EIA law will only lead to more sham procedures in the future, if at all, and the citizens concerned will be largely excluded from the procedure. By the way, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hohes Haus, Mr Minister, that the thresholds in the EIA procedure must also be reduced soon! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the burden on livestock farms, especially in rural areas, has long exceeded the potential for the population. I ask you to amend the EIA law urgently soon to reduce the thresholds again!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7594	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello! Hey!]] - What was that now? [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Did you hear that? “Whoever says nonsense is stupid! ” he said!]] [[Abg. Grill: That's not how it is!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm looking for peace! I urgently urge both gentlemen – I have heard the word “foolishness” before, but I have not seen from whom – to take back these expressions! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Abg. Heinzl) Excuse me!]] The next speaker is Mr Praßl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7680	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Does this budget have a future for 2005 and 2006? – That was a question today. I say: Yes. It has the future and the rightful future, ladies and gentlemen. Since there is an increase of almost 8.7 percent, I see this as very positive, because it ultimately serves the rural families and the rural structures. An increase of almost €100 million in actual expenditure is also to be seen as very positive. There, appropriate measures are being put in place, such as quality improvement measures, so that we – Austria – are going a step further to become the tasteful country of Europe's number one. I must also give a great deal of importance to rural areas, ladies and gentlemen. I represent this rural area in my constituency and have to say in this regard to the correction of my colleague Mr Heidrun Waltherijns: Rural areas do not grow, but hundreds of positive, very promising projects are created in these regions. In addition to the excellent vineyards, we design flowering pumpkin fields and flowering sunflower fields that ultimately make a big contribution to the tourism industry. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Relevant resources used for rural areas are intended to bring environmental improvement measures, local and sustainable management methods. That's a good thing! But since the Federal Minister has said that from 1 January. In October, the production of biofuels and the Beischrate also comes, and I consider this to be a great opportunity for rural areas. In this regard, I should like to say again to Mrs Fleckl: It is not true that only the great ones will be created in this area! In my constituency, I have had a meeting with more than 170 interested farmers who want to take part in it and who want to design such environmental projects that then serve agriculture. I see this as a great progress. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] [[Abg. Eder: They should grow, everyone! Only the market price they have to keep!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Finally, for the 11 000 farmers in my constituency, I would like to say: I would like to thank you very much for your forward-looking and far-thinking nature of agricultural policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7733	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7756	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, I come from the Hohe Tauern National Park in Salzburg. I think we agree that the Austrian National Parks are important stands in the leisure and tourism sectors, on the one hand, and important for the protection and preservation of our unique nature on the other.It would be important that Austria quickly transfer from the construction phase to the design phase, that mainly comprehensive territorial competences would be clarified, cross-border and transnational coordinations would be developed. We think that the standards should be permanently improved and extended. They are especially to be considered in harmony with nature and with people and to transfer a variety of uses. The National Park concept is on and on and on. However, the new tasks relating to administrative, research and public relations as Natura 2000 areas should be increasingly reviewed by the Federal Government for their fulfilment, Minister! For the regions concerned and the population and for all target groups, it is necessary to ensure that all claims, especially those arising from international recognition, are also paid and that the necessary budgetary precautions are taken. We believe that it is equally important that the Federation deal with the upcoming open problems. For example, the situation regarding hunting laws is not satisfactory. In some federal states, animals may be hunted, which in turn cannot be hunted in others, because the corresponding areas have just been placed under nature conservation. The endangered species of animals and plants – the list of which is becoming increasingly longer – must be protected. Or: What about the massive biotope losses and the chemicalization of the environment by the agricultural sector? How does the federal government deal with the planned projects, for example, for new winter sports ascent aid in Tyrol or possibly with the expansion of hydroelectric power plants – a certainly very sensitive area? Mr. Federal Minister, we expect more federal activities, we expect you to enforce the nature conservation of the Alps via the Alpine Convention in Brussels and to step up your international recognition of the Austrian National Parks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7802	Next item is the report by Mr Zweytick. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7824	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Like all other chapters of the 2006 budget, agriculture is also a promising chapter, a chapter in which more resources have been made available again – for planning, for the future of Austria and, above all, for the design possibilities of our farmers! It is target-oriented, offers reliability and also strengthens the courage to face the challenges in Europe, not only in Austria. Austria is a pleasure country – the taste makes sure! – there are many pleasure regions that exist in comparison with other countries and their policies It is possible to We have heard this in the last few days, and we like to put this comparison in place, because of course we are proud of it. This high standard has been developed hard, not only by the Federal Government together with our representatives but also together with the people of this country, in particular rural areas, with our farmers. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Großruck]] It is only 200 000 who are fully employed, but in the downstream sector. The area of over 600 000 who ultimately have more than 8 million people to shoulder, namely the responsibility for safe food production, for a high quality of the products, and for perceptibility in production, is responsible for healthy food. This too remains an EU and worldwide comparison. These pleasure regions don't come from anywhere. These are the achievements of this policy, which is in line with the farmers in our country. That too is comparable! They all agree with me that in Austria we eat the best butter in the world, drink the best milk, eat the best cheese, and of course we all drink also the Austrian Wine, not just the red one. [[Complementary with the ÖVP, the Free and the SPÖ Members]] Therefore, I would ask you to agree to this future budget together for 2006, to secure and to continue our agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7878	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7899	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Zweytick, I agree with you on the taste of your wine, which has my assent, and I can tell you personally. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Zweytick, you have rightly said that there are many farmers who produce these high-quality products and deliver enormous achievements. But unfortunately, I say, it is not related to the policy of this federal government, but to the performance that farmers achieve despite this policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] That must also be seen clearly, because that is the reality. The colleagues from SPÖ rightly raised the question of farm mortality as a focus. This is the social challenge of rural areas. Every year thousands of jobs are lost, that's reality, you can't just talk away. You know as well as I do, Mr Zweytick, that, especially in Styria, in these small-scale structures, a massive reduction in rural jobs, especially in agriculture, is underway – by the false implementation of this agricultural reform, ladies and gentlemen! That's fact, and we want your political answer to that. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Germany! Red-Green!]] – Mr Grillitsch, if you no longer know more about the matter yourself, then start by provoking out of any box of arguments and throwing them around. I've been following this. Mr Eßl asked: Who's behind Pirklhuber? Mr Missethon believes that the agricultural spokesman would have made himself fine out of the dust. – Mr Missethon, I, like you, have taken over the obligation to run a school class in the house, and that is an obligation I take seriously. My colleague Rester-Hinterseer, also a member of the committee, was present and has followed the debate closely, as I have been since I was back. I would like to address one point, despite all of this, in the direction of SPÖ, namely the difficult question of biofuels. Mrs Fleckl, this should be discussed in detail, I invite you to do so. I think it would be good if we once discussed this issue intensively in committee. It is a difficult but important matter because we have to go further towards biofuels. That's my green conviction! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] We need to discuss this in detail, because there is a lot of worm in it. In short, to our constructive approach as regards the agricultural policy strategies for the future. Today we will support a four-party proposal on sugar market regulation, also a delicate issue. I would like to thank Mr Schultes for having approached us. As the first group, we have tabled a request to this effect, because Mr Rester-Hintersieer has tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect in the Committee on Agriculture, and I believe that, together with the SPÖ and also the Members of the Liberals, we have found a good solution to this issue. You shouldn't forget that. But, ladies and gentlemen, on the most important issue at present, in the constitutional conformity of the single payment regulation, Mr Pröll, who always finds such fine words for everything, has not received today any serious criticism of the conformity or non-conformity of the single payment regulation with the Constitution. – This regulation is unconstitutional, Minister of State! You didn't contradict this today, and I'm holding that down. Finally, I would like to take a brief look at the SPÖ's request: Of course, we support this proposal because the green farmers are a member of the excess-party platform for a fair agricultural reform and because we are responsible for it. Finally, I would like to ask colleagues from all other political groups to make an appropriate conclusion so that we can really implement a social and environmental agricultural reform in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7966	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Winkler. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7987	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! High house! I should like to comment on at least this important issue today, namely agricultural and forestry training. This can also be demonstrated by impressive figures. A total of around 23 000 people are in this training each year. In total, more than € 164 million is spent on agricultural and forestry training. The training is excellent and modern and is also very gladly accepted. Not least, it is also regarded as a so-called life school. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister of State! As a Forstmann, I also agree with the fact that in Austria we are almost 50 percent of the forest, and also on the associated economic factor – wood after tourism is anyway the second largest foreigner – but not least because of the multicultural and multifunctional tasks of the forest to point out and highlight the importance of forestry training. Of course, this high proportion of forest must also take into account forestry training, and it must be adapted accordingly. Many agricultural and forestry schools do have forestry lessons, but usually only to the extent of a few hours. Most of the lessons, of course, take in agricultural training. After the end of the school in Gainfarn we only have Bruck at the Mur as the only remaining pure forest training site. In all agricultural and forestry training, forestry training is only 8 to 10 percent. I should therefore also like to make it possible to support forestry training in the school sector on the one hand, but also, above all, in the field of forestry practice, on the other. I can mention that the provision of practice places in the national forestry services, also in some private forestry establishments, but also, above all, for the first time at the Austrian Federal Forests, shows that we are on the right track here. I should like to thank you very much, but at the same time ask you to continue this course. – In this sense, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8033	The next item is the report by Mr Schweisgut. The same applies to him: 2 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8054	Madam President. Federal Minister! Let me briefly, in this case also literally mean, as only 2 minutes of speaking time are available to me, to talk to the “Holiday on the farm”. “Holiday on the farm” – but an important source of income for our rural population. A total of about 15 000 rural owners offer 170 000 guest beds. They generate about €1 to €1.2 billion annually in expenditure. In contrast to the fact that about €70 000 means a job, it is known that the “Holiday on the farm” results in about 25,000 jobs in the rural area. That's why I'm saying: That is quite worthy of support. As a result, as part of the Eastern Market Development Strategy, the programme is something that should be pursued in the next few years, as we have a very large potential for guests who are interested in a farm holiday, such as Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and as we can thus capture the declining figures from the Federal Republic of Germany. Finally, I should like to make a brief reference to one of the biggest agricultural events in this year: At the end of May the Haflinger World Exhibition takes place in Austria. Over a thousand horses from twenty nations come to Austria for five days; with 50,000 visitors, one of the largest agricultural events. It will take place in Ebbs in Tyrol, and I can invite you all quite cordially; perhaps once a time to enjoy agriculture in combination horse and holiday, tourism and international success product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8095	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. Also 2 minutes of welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8116	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I spoke last year about the Federal Law on the Summary of Agricultural Federal Institutes. Since January, it has been ready: The higher federal educational institutions, each with a research institute in Gumpenstein, Raumberg and Wieselburg, were merged into new regional educational and research centres. The emphasis is on regionalization. This will bring agricultural research and teaching together even more closely and merge into agricultural centres of competence. In the newly organized teaching and research institute Francisco Josephinum in Wieselburg, scientists conduct excellent research on biomass and renewable raw materials. On the other hand, education focuses on agriculture, agricultural technology and food technology and on agriculture marketing and agricultural management in Raumberg. These solutions are generally assessed positively. The combinations are seen as very fruitful and as a location protection. In parallel with the re-establishment of these institutes, Federal Minister Josef Pröll has also created the function of a research representative to develop a new Austrian research strategy in the field of life, environmental and agricultural sciences. This task was entrusted to the long-term rector of Boku, Mr. University Professor Dr. March. The final report is available, and a catalogue of proposals has also been presented. In this regard, 13th and 14th respectively, will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. June 2005 in St. Pölten a two-day conference with the aim of taking decisive steps in strategy development. A total of €2.5 million will be available for research activities in the Bundesanstalts for 2006 or for research contracts to third parties. I am convinced – and the directors too – that we are on the right track with these mergers both in Wieselburg and in Gumpenstein in the sense of an efficient pooling of resources. I would like to thank the Federal Minister and colleagues in the Federal Ministry for this good budget approach. Another word for opposition: Please stop with this regret about the government crisis! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They've been trying to bring them around for months. I keep it here with “Waiting for Godot” or with Roman Polanski’s “When Katelbach Comes”: This government crisis is not coming!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8177	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the opinion group VIII of the 2006 Federal proposal. This includes Chapters 60 and 61 of the Federal Estimate in 830 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group VIII of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig, Mr Kopf, Mr Wittauer, Mr Krainer, Mr President, on the cruel killing of 325,000 seals off the north coast of Canada. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 95.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gradwelt, Mr Gässner, Mr Gässner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the extra-participal initiative for a just agricultural reform in Austria. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schultes, Mr Scheuch, Mr Gradwohl, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr President, on the reform of the EU sugar market system. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 96.) [[12:29:40]] Advisory Group X Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8272	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group X: Transport, Innovation and Technology. The Special Rapporteur was not allowed to report orally. Mr Eder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8299	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Federal Minister! – Timely, he arrives! – Mr Federal Minister, there would be a lot to do in the area of infrastructure. In view of the 20 million unemployed in Europe and the unfortunately rising unemployment rate in Austria, I believe that every political party has to make and act accordingly. It would have been only consistent to act as announced by the Federal Minister for Finance in his budget speech: More growth through investment in education, research and infrastructure is necessary! – However, if you make a more accurate analysis of the budget, you can see very clearly that there are unfortunately fewer resources in the infrastructure sector, at least € 223 million less. This can be seen from the 2006 budget overview. Mr Federal Minister, I think it is necessary and, above all, it is about creating employment in Europe, but of course also in Austria. How could you do that? When it comes to trans-European network routes, it is always the question of which countries like many trans-European network routes should go through. For example, Austria has been proud – and thanks to our parliamentarians in the EU Parliament and thanks to your negotiations in Europe – of getting a number of trans-European network routes for Austria. However, Mr Federal Minister, this is only a first step. The second step I am looking for and asking you to take is that these trans-European network lines will then also be built in one. It does not use anything at all if there are good plans at European level and then each national state decides separately for itself where it uses its funds for railway or road tracks. We will never get a pan-European, continuous rail system. Only when we will have continuous rail systems from Lisbon to Moscow in Europe will economic operators settle on these routes, then you will experience a corresponding upturn. Mr. Federal Minister! In the last few days, a lot has been said about the fact that the government is working and is happening so much in our country. In this context, as chairman of the Committee on Transport, I should like to remind you that we currently have 59 requests on the Committee on Transport from the various groups which are completely unprocessed, unfinished and are not dealt with. On the issue of ‘Government works’, it should also be said that applications in the Transport Committee are also being processed. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Rest of interest.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of “work” of course also belongs to success. If you only work without success, I see a problem in it. And when I get there the “Kurier ” of 6. April, which reads: “Private ones are getting out of post-bus purchase”, Mr. Federal Minister, then I have to say: In this way, we do not achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, namely that we sell as far as possible to Austrian companies in the privatisation of the mailbox and the subsequent companies remain Austrian. Here I read: they get out. Perhaps we have been badly negotiated, perhaps a bad policy has been made. It is only a pity that now probably French or other companies will buy parts of the Austrian mailbox, and that is of course not the objective and purpose of the action, at least the Minister of State has always explained it differently in the committees. Another example: the Brenner Base Tunnel. In this regard, the “Kurier” writes of a billion tomb. If you look at it more precisely and read it, then you have to see that the Brenner Base Tunnel is certainly an important North-South transport link, but for this Brenner base tunnel – there were now a number of talks with the EU Commissioner Barrot, as I can see from the media – you have to put in place accompanying measures so that investors who are willing to invest in this base tunnel can also expect a satisfactory rate of return. One simply has to design the conditions for the truck traffic, which will then continue to be possible via the burner pass, so that it becomes unattractive, To pass by the truck, but it is attractive to transport the goods by rail. If this is not enforceable in the EU, Minister of State, I also see difficulties for the enforcement and economic operation of the Brenner Base Tunnel. I would like to make one last comment on the general transport plan. I am trying to revise this general transport plan, which was then drawn up under Forstinger by this government, really and seriously, because ÖBB-Chair Huber also wants to renegotiate the railway development, and Mr. State Secretary Kukacka also believes that the railway expansion plans can be changed. If that's all, gentlemen, please, turn these plans into a positive one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8380	The next item is the report by Mr Miedl. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8402	Madam President. Mr Federal Minister and my honourable Secretary of State! High house! Mr Eder, I think we agree that traffic axes wherever they are are located are axes of prosperity. Along transport axes, working transport axes, labour market policy, settlement policy and, of course, jobs will be secured. - That's the first finding. Second observation, ladies and gentlemen: We also agree that the link between the west and the east is relatively well developed in Austria. There it works quite a bit, the motorway, the railway and also the shipping. Third finding: We also agree that the North-South connections in Austria have a lot of follow-up needs, both the Brenner and the Pyhrn as well as the Koralm and Semmering routes. So now we agree that the construction of such routes, the carrying out of these transport policy tasks, is of economic strategic importance. This is a strategic project. Now I myself am inconclusive in the assessment, ladies and gentlemen, what the SPÖ really wants. And here I am speaking to you, Mr Herb, because I am not at all coming along with your policy and the policy of SPÖ, which you clearly represent. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: I'm curious about how they're going to vote on punkto Semmering!]] If we agree on these principles, I do not understand the behaviour of my colleague Herb and that of SPÖ at all. If we know that the connections from the Baltic region to Poland to the Czech Republic are planned or already finished, and we already have a fixed and well-developed railway network from the south to Tarvis, then we are not talking about either a Styrian or a Lower Austrian, not even an Austrian, but a European project of particular importance, ladies and gentlemen. I think that we also have a lot of information to do. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: This is about the Semmering Base Tunnel!]] Mr Herz, we have, with the decision of the construction of the Koralmbahn, if you want to, the strategic shoe spoon, so to speak, so that the railway project via the southern route through Austria becomes possible. What I expect from an Austrian Member who sits in Parliament here, that is that he supports this procedure and does not object to it. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Semmering Base Tunnel! How does it look?]] There are two reasons why a reorientation has become necessary in the Semmering base tunnel, as I say to you. The first reason – I discussed this with Mr. Eder before – is of course that the Semmering base tunnel... [[Abg. Parnigoni: You didn't discuss something, but you talked to him!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Mr. Herbs, do you know what I notice? – The SPÖ mouthbrushes are always there when it comes to talking something and being against it somewhere. In your time of government, no kilometre of railways were built north-south. This must be held once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all: For safety reasons, the Semmering tunnel had to be redesigned and planned, and the second story is that the Koralm Railway is run as a flat railway, so the track on the Semmering track must also be run as flat track. [[Abg. Gaál: He doesn't need a man!]] What has been reached on this question is that two national leaders, namely the head of state of Styria, together with the head of state in Lower Austria, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Minister of Transport, have managed to dispute a project politically. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not exactly what it looked like!]] This is politically disputing! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Pröll argued otherwise!]] [[Abg. Gaál: The ÖVP is torn in itself on this question!]] For the first time, funds will also be made available for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen! You forgot all of this. Mr. Herb, under your leadership – is funny that you are making a transport policy – the SPÖ has managed to install, as it were, its own subcommittee, which is intended to serve the sole purpose of controlling and making European dimension transport policy projects impossible. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Tell your party colleague Pröll!]] Mr Herzegovina, that is your kind of policy and never ours! Ours is to see that Austria, please nice, is connected to the world. You have to know, Mr Herb, that it is not about Styria, it is not about Lower Austria, not only about Austria, but about how we reach the Adriatic ports that we reach Koper, Trieste, Rijeka, which is now difficult. [[Abg. Gaál: Say the pomp in St. Pölten!]] Everything is currently geared towards Rotterdam. Mr. Herb, we must see that with the Koralm crossing we open the Graz Basin, the Klagenfurt Basin. This has always been forgotten in your policy, which has never been taken seriously. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The problem is Pröll!]] It is now serious, and I am therefore pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that a resolution will be tabled later in the discussion, which is serious about the transport policy of this government. It will be made available for the first time, it will be made available for the first time for planning and construction – Mr Wittauer will make this request – and for the first time a matter will actually be dealt with realistically, ladies and gentlemen, and we will not be ready to do so, of no one. In conclusion, Mr Herb, on your kind of policy, I would like to say one more thing: Please accept my request. It would be that you don't criminalise politics in addition. I looked at your broadcasts. I don't know how many times you threaten the prosecutor. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Because it is necessary!]] Instead of making policy, Mr. Col. Herb – it's all being criminalized – is constantly calling for the prosecutor. I would recommend: Put the dishes in as long as you want! We will continue to drive politics in the interests of Austria, the Austrian economy and jobs – whether you want it or not. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You can see that by the unemployment rate!]] We're not going to stop there!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8614	The next item is the report by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8636	Madam President. Minister! The Secretary of State! High house! Let me start with a review before we dare a preview on the 2006 budget, a review of five years of black and blue transport policy with one, two, three, four ministers starting with Mr Michael Schmid. [[State Secretary Mag. Mainoni: It takes a long time!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Black-orange you have forgotten!]] He was exactly nine months' transport minister. [[Abg. Wittauer: A good minister!]] He has been awarded a Hü-Hott policy in the rail infrastructure, on the one hand he has reduced by 15 percent in public transport, but on the other hand he has not saved himself and has had very high representation fees. [[Abg. Wittauer: My God!]] We think that at the time, his past as the Styrian West Music Council hit something. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What does this have to do with the budget?]] Michael Schmid was well-known for distinctive sayings and is unforgettable as Minister of Transport, who has telephoned as Minister of Transport while driving and has also been proud to be filmed. That was also the reason for his resignation. [[Abg. Wittauer: Are you driving car?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It is about transport policy, Mrs Colleague!]] The next occupation took place with Monika Forstinger: 15 months in office. Your wrongs are not all totalable now, at least not in 8 minutes: Call numbering regulation, now still judicial activities of its chief cabinet Miko – unlawfully awarded –, performances with the FPÖ close-up wholesalers who have openly and irrevocably called in their presence to disregard applicable laws in driving and resting times. It is obvious that the transport ministers of the FPÖ have very serious problems in keeping themselves to laws. For example, Forstinger has been on the road without a belt; this is also difficult to argue for a Minister of Transport. In their time, too, the empty and unfinancing general transport plan, which we are always talking about, is urgently waiting for the revision of which we are waiting for it to finally stand up to reality. Forstinger was also one of the black and blue coffins in the transit question, but she gave up a well-founded and secure reserve in the area of railway liberalisation. This would have been needed later in the negotiations as a piece of bread as a means of printing or as a place of exchange for a better solution to the transit question. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mainoni, give her a list of ministers!]] Let's close the Forstinger chapter – and let's go to Mathia's Reichhold. He was exactly one year's Minister of Transport. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What you know!]] As Minister, for example, he was particularly noticed by Grand Prix visits with Italian outsiders, which in turn is no wonder. Reichhold met with foreign partners, but obviously did not do anything there. Much more has he achieved in the process of sending out lucrative posts to former FPÖ ministers. [[Abg. Grandruck: This is Simpl!]] – Yes, that was really pretty simple – unfortunately, and nothing went on either. [[Abg. Grossruck: I meant the cabaret!]] The next one is then already the longest-serving transport minister of the FPÖ, now BZÖ? Is that right? Yeah, BZÖ. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: As you wish!]] So, as I wish, both: BZÖ and FPÖ. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: Just say the Minister of Transport!]] He has now been in office for two years, and has played an immeasurable role in the transit disaster – replaceless deletion of ecopoints at the end of 2003. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: This is unfair!]] Since then, there has been an increase in truck traffic in the East by 7 to 16 percent, depending on the nationality of the trucks – this is listed extra – and over the burner plus 20 percent. [[Abg. Wittauer: Why? We fought for it!]] - Why? Because the ecopoints have been removed without replacement and no better solution has been found. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That's incredible!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] However, the failure in transport policy was made more than bet by successes in personnel policy. Under Gorbach the largest cabinet of all time was created – 53 people including the Kukacka and the Mainoni bureau – and there is an explosion in representation expenditure, partly more than double the budgeted. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is about transport policy and not about personnelia!]] “Spesenritter Hubsi”, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach is quoted in the newspapers; that does not come from me, Mr. Cot. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The scandalous highlights of the liberal poster have only reached him, and this is an art, for he has already made incredible progress before. In addition, foreign travel is still free of any transport relevance. Mr. Gorbach was now prevented from returning to Japan only by means of the FPÖ confusion. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: Exactly!]] Why, one does not know to study transport policy in Japan likely. [[Abg. Wittauer: You have to look at this from the economy!]] It must be said that this criticism, Mr Wittauer, has also been fully confirmed by the Court of Auditors as regards the issue of transport, and it is heard that this has also been confirmed in the case of private rail transport. This is the less encouraging result of five years, five lost years for transport policy, five years of black and blue transport policy. That's where you could say: Yeah, the liberals didn't do that well. But you also have to say: The ÖVP has acquired the seeing eye, it has carried the seeing eye and has confirmed it once again after the failure of the cabinet bowl I and has again gone into a coalition with the FPÖ to continue this disaster. The ÖVP is not apologised here in any form because it has not done so, but it has helped with seeing eyes. That means: 200 000 more vehicles in Austria – only for repetition – 200 000 more vehicles on the roads and less for local transport, thinned regions also because people have to drive much more because they no longer find district courts, no longer find post offices, no longer find gene army posts. This is all regional policy, the ÖVP manuscript bears. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] More and more people have to commute. And what do they do if they no longer have public transport? They drive the car – that is, 200 000 more cars – but there are no reasons for the installation of Russian filters in diesel cars. They have also not made themselves important in industrial lobbying, for example, in the re-purchasing of service vehicles. They were once again obtained from a German automotive company, which has successfully refused to introduce diesel particle filters for four years. [[Abg. Großruck: Who is Environment Minister in Germany?]] Again the same policy, it is preferred to the same manufacturer who delivers exactly these vehicles. [[Abg. Großruck: In Germany they have a green environmental minister!]] Yeah, that's probably a green group, a green automobile company. That's right! Then you can write a four-lineer on it. That's great! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Big truck: preaching water, drinking wine!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: But they're less far there than we are!]] The question is: Was something really in motion in Austria – even with this ÖBB reform? We know we have an extremely bloated device. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: Hatten!]] We have never had so many supervisory posts to provide. This is all at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer and the Austrian taxpayer. And what does he or she get for it? – Exactly zero comes out for the Austrian taxpayers! [[Abg. Reheis: Less than zero!]] Because it's so beautiful, I would like to quote what the “New Zurich Newspaper” says: “Austria now has a government in which a party is involved, which has not yet existed in the elections, of which one does not know what it stands for and what it wants.” Obviously you don't need to know that either. [[Vice Chancellor Gorbach: Is that the ÖBB?]] – What is important: The new head of the party has announced that there are other projects. Please don't have any more projects like the Koralmbahn! Please do not open a new billion tomb that must be paid by the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9051	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9073	I won't get out with those 5 minutes! Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! It's incredible already: Mrs Rester-Hinterseer's speech was not a contribution to transport policy, it was a past deal! [[Abg. Eder: From your past!]] I'll tell you: Every single Minister of Transport has done more than any Minister of Social Democratic Transport in the four years before, and that is relatively easy to justify. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Reheis: That's exactly the seriality I mean! You don't have any seriality! You can't say that! That's just not true! That's not true! If four transport ministers don't keep going! That's serious politics? Unscrupulous!]] Mr Reheis, it is already strange that I must remind you again that the transit treaty – the evil of every traffic – was made by the Social Democrats and not by us liberals. We have been committed to ensuring that there is proper transport policy as well. This is now addressed to Mr Eder: If I hear out there – and I am sure you are someone with whom you can always talk – the European parliamentarians would have negotiated the TEN lines, then I must tell you that the Free Trade Ministers and especially Vice-Cancellor Gorbach have been successful in negotiating the TEN routes because he is in good contact with Europe. [[Abg. Eder: You heard that inside, not outside!]] [[Abg. Eder: He negotiated this with the mill!]] You've seen that again at the Brenner Base Tunnel. Who's done something? – – – [[Abg. Eder: Where's the Semmering?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In any case, the Social Democrats are not! You have to say to the little pile that is excited about it: Do better opposition work once, so that more comes out than always this maneuver! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: A small pile, Mr. Colleague? – You are a “little crowd”!]] 59 applications have not been processed, has been said before. I have asked you to withdraw each of these 59 requests from the Committee on Transport last time, because we already work on each area and have better solutions. – But not even those accept! [[Abg. Eder: Then she refuses...!]] To the accompanying measures – Brenner Base Tunnel: It's terrifying for me: The word “billion grave” has just fallen again. So, I expect Mr Reheis to defend the Brenner Base Tunnel here at the speaker's desk with everything he has and to reject the term "billion grave" – behind which so often a question mark stands – because what you call "billion grave" is important for the transport policy future of Tyrol and is therefore to be supported. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... on the wrong side! He's not coming on!]] [[Abg. Eder: This is in the “Kurier”! Quote “Kurier ”!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why is it to be supported? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Because Mr. Vice-Chancellor does not go on by himself, it is therefore necessary to support him!]] – Because the transit contract you owe forced us to take expensive action. If we are to say that we now have to think about accompanying measures so that transport can be shifted from road to rail, I must tell you, Mr Eder: We are now in the process of securing funding. We are now in the process of securing construction, but not with your help, because you have recently asked the Court of Auditors to review the project and best to eliminate it. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Five years too late! Five years you've slept!]] - That's how I understood. I am expecting a word from the Social Democrats and also that you supported the Vice-Cancellors in securing and also building the Brenner Base Tunnel for the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The vice chancellor is supposed to be satisfied with the small orange pile and get support there!]] [[Abg. Eder keeps a “curier” article up to date.]] If you're going over everything so lapidar and trying to do everything bad, I would also like to mention the traffic control system and the section control – a sad experience for 6,000 drivers. In the Upper Austria section, 6 000 drivers have recently fallen into the trap. I've got a little criticism point. For me, transport policy always means measures to raise people's awareness and awareness of something. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: tempo increase 160! That's the FPÖ!]] I might be talking to the vice chancellor about the fact that these panels of section control are getting a little bigger. However, 6 000 people have been included in this section of control because they have gone too fast. That's gonna talk around. If you put in place further measures in sensitive areas, this is a success. Tell me here, Mr Verkehrs Spokesperson, Mr Eder, what a success the Vice-Cancellor Gorbach has to present! – He'll say it himself anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: He will praise himself!]] – I know you lost your voice because you cried so loud in Carinthia, and nobody heard you! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Continue singing your praises! That's the only thing you can do!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: No more level!]] If I am looking at the criticism of Members of Parliament regarding foreign travel, I have to say: It is important that the people who preside over this country and do good work represent this Austria outside and stimulate the economy with these contacts. Faith You're telling me: It's a pleasure for no minister to travel abroad, but that's stress! You should know about the Social Democrats. Perhaps it is for the Green Holiday, but with us the ministers for Austria work – also abroad! [[Abg. Dr Puswald: Mr Colleague, sit down!]] And if a minister is willing to make these trips abroad – in the sense of the economy, in the sense of Austria and in the sense of employment in Austria – this is important, and you should praise it and not see it as if he were going to spend your holidays in Hawaii. [[Abg. Marizzi: He didn't have time at all, the last six weeks!]] That's a joke! One does not do this, but one supports the government where it is necessary. [[Abg. Eder goes to the government bank.]] Mr Eder! [[Abg. Gaál: (on Abg. He didn't say anything!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I can also turn around to you. You won't confuse me. [[Abg. Eder: This has already happened!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: We were already successful!]] I believe that the success of transport policy is precisely speaking for itself. I'll list them to you, for example in the area of the street: West motorway: 168,1 million €, A 2 South motorway: € 436.61 million, A 6 motorway: 182 million €, A 7 Mühlkreis motorway: 149 million €, Pyhrn motorway: € 228 million. - That can go on! And then one of the Members says that this is unfinancing. – These are projects that are at work. These are projects that will be implemented! [[Abg. Marizzi: All of the Social Democrats!]] If it were the case with the Social Democrats, then we would have the same thing as in 1999, namely a standstill. I've already said it today: With free participation, not only in Austria, but also in transport policy and infrastructure, research and science, in particular, has gone a bit further. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: BZÖ or more liberal?]] – This is a liberal manuscript, and that will continue to be so in the future! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Blue or Orange?]] Faith You're telling me the following: 2006 will be an election year, and will be elected at the end of 2006. Green and red will continue to make bad opposition policy, but on the opposition bank you will definitely stay!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9508	Mr Gorbach is next spoken. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9551	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My esteemed Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Transport policy, infrastructure policy and technology innovation are undoubtedly challenges far into the future. That is why we should also discuss this with all the necessary seriousness and all the necessary seriousness in this House. Mr Verkehrs Spokesperson of the Great Opposition Party, Deputies of Eder! Thank you for making a very practical contribution in the form of an analysis of the situation. I am fully aware of the fact that you cannot or do not want to praise the Minister for Transport, but the objective discussion alone is a good and great contribution so that we can really move forward in this common concern. In some areas we have done the same. Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, I would like to put the investment that this Federal Government is ready to make in infrastructure at the beginning of my remarks, namely investment to envy other countries if they are considered in proportion to the scale. While we keep the budget in order while stabilizing it, while keeping the necessary high performance in other areas, such as health, pension, social, cultural and education, we can invest significantly more than ever before, for example in infrastructure rail, in infrastructure roads, but also in research and development – and that in times when everywhere else, including at European level, we are talking about reducing these budgets, in particular the research budgets. I would point out that we alone have invested €1,12 billion in the high-level road network in 2004, it will be 1.3 billion this year and 1,27 billion in 2006 according to budget. Now I am bringing the comparison to 15 years, because one sees the trend very clearly, who really recognizes that infrastructure will be a special challenge in the growing Europe, especially in the heart of this Europe, especially for the transport hub of Austria in the future, including in relation to mobility and thus with economic growth and thus with prosperity, jobs and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! From 1985 to 1999, €20 billion was spent on the high-level road network. In the coming years – 2000 to 2014 – the total amount is 32.5 billion. – This is an increase of more than 50 percent – I say it again! – in times where you are otherwise stopped to put on the red pencil everywhere! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] We invest not only in roads, but also the population is protected accordingly – according to the motto: We can not only watch mobility increase and transport increase, but also protect our people from the negative effects. For example, investment in noise protection measures on high-level roads: 2004: €49 million, 2005: 52 million €, 2003 was still 26 million €. If you count noise protection measures on rail and road, you can count on increases between 35 and 45 percent from year to year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the track it looks very similar: We spend about €1.4 billion – including €1.5 billion this year – for the expansion of the rail network. – Also there: As much as never before! It's an hour's commandment, not a question, but it's mentioned, because you're always talking about standstill here, which I can't understand at all, because I've never been built and will be so much – and it's also useful! - like now. For example, in the case of new construction measures, 25 per cent of all buildings are spent again on noise protection and measures to increase the quality of life of the citizens concerned. 15 percent of this is in the case of expansions or renewals. These are figures that could be discussed and which are not of course. Ladies and gentlemen, take You are also very serious about these figures! – The sums have to be spent first, and they are budget-relevant, but above all they are also active in employment. – You know that 1 billion investment in infrastructure means about 15 000 to 17 000 jobs. From this point of view, these measures should also be assessed very positively. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Eder has spoken about the partial privatisation of the mailbox, I can tell you that I am very satisfied with this process. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: I think so! Completely misdecided!]] We have undertaken to leave these 31 packages in Austrian hands as possible – as far as possible! 21 are sold, and all 21 are in Austrian hands! If this is no longer possible, then we will have to remember that we are living in Europe, that we are a member of the European Union and that we are still dealing with partial privatisation. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You do everything anyway...!]] But, Mr Eder and dear friends of the SPÖ! [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Willkürakt!]] I also tell you why it has failed to privatize the last ten packages even Austrian. Shall I tell you? – No, not the Chinese! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It has failed that the potential purchasers – there are two large companies – have said: We do not accept what transport minister Gorbach has stated in his social responsibility and social competence, namely that the former employees also need to be taken over. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... labour market! What you promised!]] [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: The regulations were yours!]] And you're against me doing this? – I would like to speak with your colleague, with trade union representatives Wurm, who will recognise this, because I have suggested that it is precisely to give security for these employees and for these jobs. – I think you can discuss that already. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Puswald and Mag. Johann Moser.]] Mr Eder, when, in relation to the Brenner Base Tunnel, the "billion grave" was spoken of – not you have spoken of it, you have quoted: in the "Kurier" it was a headline – I can only say the following: The Brenner Base Tunnel is the largest railway transport project in Europe: 56 kilometres long, large investment volume, undisputed one of the most important transport projects – not only the largest, but also the most important or second most important, however; Barrot has confirmed this, and his predecessor has already said that. I said, I want models now: What is the cost of this Brenner base tunnel, as far as you can already judge it today? – The project depth is not yet very large, the project is not yet very advanced, but how do you imagine it? - There's a wrong number coming around. I have commissioned an experienced international group to come up with models of what this could look like. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: There you must hurry, otherwise you will be out of the government outside!]] - Listen carefully! The results were from 2 billion to 15 billion – depending on where I turn the screw and where I start the financing costs and also the operation, because of course I wanted to know. Depending on the frequency – this again depends on the road cost guidelines, that is, the framework conditions – one comes to between 2 and 15 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dipl.-Ing. Herry, who was also quoted as saying that he was talking about sums and that this would not be worth it, apologized in writing to me and in writing distanced himself from the playback of his statement in this newspaper because it was falsified and not completely and therefore not related to his real statements. – So I think we should discuss this seriously! Here I stick to the number I always used – the truth is, for example, in the middle – which I have always considered realistic, also on the basis of my experience in smaller tunnel construction, that the cost of the investment will be about €5 to €6 billion depending on geology – there still needs to be researched. It is also known – depending on the financing model – that if you want to be on the safe side, about 50 percent of the financing costs must be expected. – These are the facts. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So we're not insecure the affected people waiting for this Brenner Base Tunnel! It is also a north-south transit route that we need, and Austria is now in the middle, which is the centrepiece between Munich on the one hand and Verona on the other. But you have to see the route from Berlin to Palermo, and that is why we have now also planned the appointment of an international coordinator, who will certainly do this well, namely Mr Van Miert, the former EU Commissioner. I have agreed to this and agreed with Lunardi, the colleague in Italy, and Barrot, so that as soon as possible as possible we can proceed as far as possible. But finally to this project: It has never been so far, and it has never been so much debated and discussed as clearly as now. – I would definitely like to see that done. I believe that this too stems from the efforts of the Austrian Minister of Transport – in line with the Italian Minister of Transport – to speak a lot about it and to lobby in Brussels. This is also one point that has been raised: Of course, you don't run lobbying on the phone and not at the Wiener Heurigen – although it would be more beautiful there – but you just have to drive out there a little bit. That's why I'm telling you: Both as Minister of Transport and as Vice Chancellor, I am actually too little on the international road, not too much! And all those who don't understand that, I'm a little sorry, but I leave them in this belief that you can do lobbying at home on the desk. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say a word about research, because it is just important to me. Of course, I do not want to forget them completely in the short term. In recent months and years, research and development has developed in Austria, where even the researchers say that they are not satisfied, it is not super – you can't expect – but the research situation, including the financial one, has never been as good as at the moment. In Austria, a total of €5.3 billion has been spent on research and research by industry, industry and public authorities last year. That's an absolute record value! If we know that I have managed to reach a new research offensive of €220 million for 2006 and beyond, and if we know that over the last six years we have invested 1.1 billion in additional funding in research and spent on this important area, then it is clear why we have already reached our target of reaching 2.5 percent by 2006 and 3.0 percent of GDP as a research quota by 2010. [[Abg. Sburny: The reduction of GDP...!]] In Austria in 2004, we had a research rate of 2.27%, estimated colleague, while the European average was 1.99%. This means that Austria is above the European average research rate with its research rate – for the first time ever, since it is compared! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is a balance sheet I would like to refer to for a very long time, because it fits into the rest of the government's work, where you can say: It's a success report! Ladies and gentlemen! I can for the transport and infrastructure sectors – also for modern infrastructure, i.e. communications, keyword: Broadband offensive – but also in the fields of technology, innovation, research and development only say: Today, as much investment is being made in these important areas as never before! I hope that will be the case in the next few years. In any case, this government is a guarantee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9740	The next item is the speech by Mr Parnigoni. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9762	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Miedl, one thing is clear to me: The action you started in relation to the Semmering Base Tunnel is in fact nothing but a rescue operation for the head of state of Lower Austria, Pröll, to save him from the accusation of abuse of office. This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kainz: Pröll doesn't need any rescue actions...!]] We will see to what extent you will agree to our request that the Semmering base tunnel be transferred to the federal competence. There you can prove whether you have the right smeller for transport policy. The second, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wittauer, has been correcting Mr Wittauer anyway, is that not Mr Eder spoke of the "billion grave" but that this is in the "Kurier". But I tell you, at the Semmering Base Tunnel, you have dug in €93 million – that's also a little more than 1 billion schilling! You've already dug them in, so we trust you, honestly, don't! [[Abg. May. Hakl:... you dug in! ... climate!]] Therefore, the danger is very high when Mr. Vice-Chancellor speaks from € 2 to € 15 billion, then that is a sum of 30 billion schilling up to almost 200 billion schilling. So we're really worried! Mr Federal Minister, you are talking about road construction investment and rail investment. The fact is, everything on pump! The ASFINAG has 8.5 billion euros in debt, the railway has massive debts! [[Abg. Eder: Exactly!]] [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: How?]] They invest at the expense of these two companies – and do not ensure that they come to the necessary revenue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They were the party that said no new debts. You make new debts every day! That's a fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you are talking about the need for something to happen in the new technologies. . I tell you, in reality, not only is your budget a bad one, but you have also failed in the field of broadband promotion, and you are not taking anything further. As regards the technology index, Austria is 22nd. ==References====External links==* Official website Rank. In broadband penetration, about 18 per cent of Denmark has been penetrated, and we in Austria have 8.8 per cent. With such a policy of standstill, you won't bring anything else! That's why it's failed. You're relinquishing!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9863	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9884	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, my predecessor Rudi Parnigoni – it is really a bit strange in politics... [[Abg. Parnigoni: A thank you for this constructive speech?]] We come from the same constituency. If we have concerns about the forest area, we practice close shoulder closure and are actually always of an opinion. – In federal politics, however, we could not be more contrasting! Dear Rudi Parnigoni, I'd have to disprove all that you said. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You can't do that!]] But I've done this as a topic: Research, development, innovation, technology. These are the pillars, ladies and gentlemen, which are one of the three pillars of the federal government's financial and economic strategy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Once again, we have the balanced government budget as a pillar – stability in the government budget – and secondly, the reduction of the tax and tax rate, third investment in the future, i.e. research, development, infrastructure, education and technology. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Among economic researchers, it is undisputed that research, development and technology are the dynamic factors. These factors are those that can trigger the strongest growth effects. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be a coincidence that on the one hand we have made the economic packages I and II, growth and location packages, tax reform one and two – and now as a result have higher growth rates than the EU average; only a little higher, but still higher. Compared to our neighbouring country, please, without saying anything bad about Germany, we would be happy if the German economy started! – we have almost three times as high growth as our neighbouring country Germany. This is not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, but it is based on a consistent policy designed for sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are to describe two characteristics of the Federal Government's research policy, this is first of all a significant blatant increase in the resources used here. When we compare the five years from 1995 to 2000 with the years from 2000 to 2005, we see that we have an increase of almost 50 percent! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a forward-looking design of the future, which will produce further growth effects in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also have a number of measures outside the direct research budget. I remember the quantum leap that we succeeded with the National Foundation for Research and Development. There we have a wealth of €3.3 billion from ERP funds and note bank, with annual revenues of €125 million, ladies and gentlemen, which flow into this important area of economic policy every year. [[Abg. Sburny: Virtually!]] We have made a huge leap in the introduction of the research premium by means of tax policy, with the increase of 10 per cent to 15 per cent, and to 25 per cent. It is no coincidence that people like Consemuller, as Professor Aigerer of the WIFO or Professor Felder of the IHS say, these were quantum leaps in research policy. Austria has again become one of the most attractive research sites in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is not a coincidence, but ultimately the consequence of a forward-looking future-forming policy in this area. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you and your two State Secretary: Complement for this development! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have also achieved – as Mr Vice-Chancellor has just said – that we are in exactly the stage plan. With the 2.27 percent research rate this year and the 2.5 percent next year, we will undoubtedly reach the 3 percent target in 2010. This is also the new thing in this policy that we deliberately develop strategies beyond legislative periods and set our goals – Austria 2010. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: It's not that hard! They're so short!]] Mr Moser, we will have a 3 percent research rate in 2010. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: That's where you have to think!]] However, I would also like to make two points which I must say that I would be grateful if we found solutions. I am aware – and I myself have struggled for years – that small and medium-sized enterprises can have easier access to research resources. I am very satisfied with it, but on the other hand I also see today that by covering research funding at large companies Research projects are lost – in Singapore or elsewhere – which we would like to have in itself. As it is of course very difficult, it is almost the square of the circle. Here we have to look – just as Professor Consemüller says: [[Abg. Sburny: But they already have so many side effects!]] We've done a lot, but we actually have to do more. [[Abg. Sburny: Yes, even more takeaways!]] I would suggest here, Minister, Secretary of State, perhaps we could examine the following – I am not an expert –: Perhaps you can apply the principle of private-public partnership there as well. I don't know if this is possible; in any case, we are well advised if we continue our successful path and are aware of it: Everything we invest here is investing in growth and employment, we invest in jobs, income opportunities and ultimately in social security, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10034	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10085	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Appreciated guests at the gallery! I already have a few problems; you can't use certain words here on the stage, so to speak, of course, you can't say "gauner", you can't say "loyal". [[Abg. May. Hakl: It's not hard!]] But the problem starts somewhere else: You can say out there what you want, whether it's right or not. That cannot be good in a Parliament! [[Abg. Neugebauer:... say it stop outside of Parliament!]] The members of the government parties and their representatives may now go a bit further. You have said several times this morning that you should not criticize Austria as an opposition either; you should not make Austria bad. That's why I'm slowly getting allergic because you mean: ÖVP is Austria, FPÖ is Austria, and BZÖ is also Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I think Austria is a bit more than this conglomerate of the government parties. And you will take note of that! We can say thank God what we think. I do not want to sit in your place where you have to say what PR agencies and the Federal Government put in your mouth, and where your half pocket money for flower bouquets for the government members on the government bank is on it. Even when criticizing, an opposition can of course be serious, and I think we are also serious. No one says that research has no budgets, no one says that the universities stand without budgets. In absolute numbers – that is stupidly right – something has developed upward. But to the top probably the pocket money of Austrian children has also developed; much has developed upward. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: The Indebtedness!]] As an economic expert, they know exactly that the importance of the subject areas measured by the budgets is determined in terms of the population, i.e. percentage; this says more. [[Abg. May. Hakl: As a percentage of GDP!]] As a percentage of GDP, the research rate in Austria and the university budgets are stagnating completely! [[Abg. May. Hakl: No, that's wrong!]] This is not wrong, except for Mr Hakl, who knows more than the IHS, and she knows more than the government-appointed Council on Research and Technology Development. With all sympathy: I dare to doubt that. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second trick you always apply is that you measure any increase in the worst years. Everyone knows – even a section leader has admitted – that 2003 was a disaster year in this sector. Well, when compared to years of disaster, you will always get an increase, but if that is enough for the world class, Mr President, I ask that! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: They make it very easy!]] I do not make it easy for myself to quote the experts appointed by the Government at the Council for Research and Technology Development. They say: If we want to reach 2.5 percent of GDP, if we want to reach 3 percent later, we need annual increase rates of 8.8 percent. Well, that's not just public money, it's also private sector, industry et cetera. However, the public contribution would have to be at least 3 percent, and I do not see this increase at the university or elsewhere where. You have to tell me now – except you're talking about it virtually again, that the National Foundation has 3 billion, but if you ask people where they are, they don't know. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: They already know!]] They know? – Then I don’t know who you’re talking to; maybe also with virtual figures. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: At the sheet of notes... where the proceeds are here!]] But what I want to talk about now is simply the balance between the research sectors. There is fundamental science, economic and applied science, and perhaps also the humanities and cultural sciences that should be at the heart of an educational party such as the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: No, that's not true!]] – I have to give the Erwin Niederwieser the right again if he doubts that. But there's a lot going on in the balance. One speaks of "heaven effects" and of what ultimately results from investment in economic research in secondary investment. If you use experts again, then you are only in virtual numbers! To believe that for every million euros you invest in applied research, three reinvigorates the tax, which is simply international over every level of discussion. That's not the case! [[Abg. May. Hakl: Not in the tax...!]] As you are talking about sustainability – and I am already of the opinion that an intellectual debate should concentrate mainly above the belt line –: There's nothing there either. The FWF has a budget, which is ultimately 3 million higher than in recent years, but 5 million less successful in 2004. The FWF has set up special research areas, and there are applications in an application volume of €60 million, but only €8 million are available for this! The approval rate is 27 percent, by internationally audited, as excellent research projects. It is not worth the effort to write a request half a year if 80 percent of it is rejected! The Schrödinger scholarships, with which we want to bring our young scientists abroad, in excellent centers, in order to bring them back – further educated, so to speak, to grow up in the research scene – have been frozen at €5 million for years! That's what I'm really asking myself: What's going on? The increase in the proportion of the economy – and I would like to mention this – is largely due to foreign investors. It is also good that foreign investors, private companies and industry, see Austria as a good location to invest. That's good, but then please don't put the feather on your own hat, if you know exactly that this wasn't in principle the Austrian economy. I would also like to ask Gorbach: What does he intend to put into research and technology development during the EU Presidency of Austria? – We have also talked, together with Mainoni, about achieving a four-party agreement on sustainable research funding and the safety of research budgets. We are ready for this at any time, but we do it at last! Let us start by debating the national research plan in Parliament. It was hardly really started. Now something that already irritates me: Even a National Bank study says that the problem lies in the promotion of young people, because research is done – everyone in the gallery knows that, just you – people, not machines. There is nothing to do with creating an ultracentrifuge or an electron microscope: It takes women and men to use this device to think about what can be solved with the device. In an opinion from the National Bank, it is said that the promotion of young people in Austria is in the arrogance, because we have much to stare professorial hierarchies and young people have no perspective. If Gehrer does not want to understand this – please, Mr Mainoni and Mr Vice-Chancellor, tell her! Finally – I am sad that Lopatka has left the hall –: We're talking about elites and excellence; that's not forbidden, that's quite good. But the most absurd idea, characterized – I say quite consciously now – of last-class ignorance, comes in a Styrian journal for political sciences of Lopatka, the Secretary-General of the ÖVP. He says that the Elite University in Austria is necessary, and it should focus on fields of science that do not exist in Austria. – I’ve never heard anything like that before! Every scientist in Austria, every president of a research fund, will put his hands on the head if, so to speak, this work, compared to Lopatka, is still worth the effort. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Lopatka is an ideologist, please!]] Please correct, Mr Vice-Chancellor – it is interesting that you already have to hope for the FPÖ or the BZÖ – such statements, which are nothing more than scientific, than research-political nonsense! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10296	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10317	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Grünewald, you really cannot deny that research and development in the current government has been done as much as never before. I will certainly not be called a liar by you if I can show you the following facts and figures that Austrian policy in research and development is a success story. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is reflected on the one hand in the provision of financial resources that are more than ever before. But it is not only the financial resources that make up a successful research policy, but also a structural reform, as we decided last year, with the research promotion society, in which the research funds are pooled for the first time in a common spirit, so that all companies and companies have much easier – and the researchers have much easier – to reach the funds of the research pots. Research and development are rightly a focus in the current Federal Government, because research and development mean an engine in the economy, which, in turn, implies that, of course, sustainable and qualified jobs are created. The measures of this Federal Government for research and development can be seen very well: Research funds increased by more than €1.3 billion between 2003 and 2006. I emphasize the word “enhanced. ” There is the Research Plan II, which provides more than €600 000 million between 2004 and 2006. For 2006, €220 million will be offered for research and development funding. And then the National Foundation adds, at which per year more than € 125 million for the field of research This is the first time that we have been able to find a This also ensures that medium and long-term planning security is provided for the researchers. Another amount is to be mentioned, which often falls through, so to speak, the research grants and the research premium, which make up more than €100 million a year and which provides an incentive for companies and companies to invest even more in research and development. Professor Grünewald, you first addressed the study of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. This is a very positive assessment that our research and development ratio is the most dynamic within the EU, as it rose from 1993 in which we had a R & D ratio of 1.47 percent to 2.27 percent in 2004. It is probably true that domestic research has a steep rise. It is also noted in this study that it is very positive that Austria has become an international research location, has developed into this and that many German companies and companies, such as Infineon, are already coming to Austria and setting up their research centres here, which in turn leads to more jobs. Especially from Bavaria one hears very often that one is very sad there that many companies migrate and settle in Austria because we have much better conditions. One thing is clear: In the economic sector in particular, it is necessary to create further impetus, and the private sector must certainly continue to be motivated in order to achieve the objective of research. Unfortunately, the Lisbon objective of two thirds of the funding has not yet been achieved, so great efforts are still being made in the economic sector, so that even more money is being invested. As a woman's speaker, I am also concerned that research and development in this area are also available for the promotion of women's funds from offensives. There is a concern of the Minister of Research and the Secretary of State for Research to provide funding in this field in non-university research, in particular in the field of executive positions for women. It has already been mentioned today, too, the broadband initiative, which I am also a very special supporter of women in rural areas. The area sees information in rural areas and is not only available in central agglomerations. Ladies and gentlemen! If previous governments and the relevant ministers had made the same effort and invested just as much as we do in research and development, we would not have as much follow-up need as we do now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Research Minister Gorbach and his State Secretary, Mr. Research State Secretary Mainoni, are in a good way to ensure that Austria's economic location is safeguarded by this research and development offensive. I ask you from the opposition that, instead of constantly doing everything wrong, you support this successful government research and development policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10399	Mr Reheis, the next speaker, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10423	Mr President. Expensive members of the Federal Government! High house! Yes, it's true, you don't have to do everything bad, but cheer up how you do it all the time, I don't think, always appropriate, because there's enough to criticize. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! ==References== March, the "Tyrol daily" wrote before Barrot's Visite: The track's lost. The EU Transport Minister was in Tyrol and took a picture of the transit burden. And this is where the "Tyrol daily" – and you can also see that – writes that the transit burden is increasingly happening on the street. If Mr Gorbach spoke of “Lobbyism” today and of the fact that he did not happen at the regular table and unfortunately not, as you said, in the Heurigenlokal, one must also find here that your predecessors did not make any, but no lobbyism in Europe at all, otherwise it would not have happened that, for example, the transit contract has disappeared without singing and sound and actually replaced. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: In your place I would not mention the transit contract!]] The "Tyrol daily", writes, dear colleague: Minister of Transport Hubert Gorbach raised a blow at the end of 2003. Austria's EU partner sealed the end of the transit contract. - Quote. This is, of course, also a work of this Federal Government or its predecessor, who obviously did not understand lobbyism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: That's very weak! It would be good if you stood at your own faults!]] This leads, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that today, I tell you, we have the following situation: In 1995, 1.3 million heavy trucks drove over the burner, at the end of 2003, there were 1.65 million trucks, and at the end of 2004 and in the year one after the end of the transit contract, the number of transit trucks, i.e. heavy trucks, is already more than 2.1 million. Behind these naked numbers, ladies and gentlemen, are people, people along this transit route, and more and more of these people are being overrun by noise, stench, nitrogen oxides and by which – as we have already heard today – increasingly stronger PM-10 dust exposure. We have something to do, ladies and gentlemen, here you are required. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As Mr Wittauer today pretended to be against the Brenner Base Tunnel: We are not, but, ladies and gentlemen, if such a expensive project is created, then accompanying measures must also be taken to ensure that this tunnel is actually used to avoid producing an expensive project and then continue to burden the population. The construction of the tube must be started as soon as possible. It costs a lot of money, we need this in Tyrol to relieve the population, but it is all the more necessary to put in place the appropriate accompanying measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government and of the BZÖ, I do not hope that you are only Austrian railway destroyers, but that you are really developing something further, also in transit for our country and for the people of our country – thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10498	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10519	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! To the hair would be something like a consensus here today, as far as the Brenner base tunnel is concerned. So we all agree: That's not how it goes, something has to happen! The Greens are different: at European level, at Tyrolean level, at national level. One time it's said we need this tunnel, the other time it's said we're burying incredibly much money, we don't need it at all, and the third traffic officer of the Greens then says: Yes, if, but, and, also, or. There is no position yet that I am sorry for what I am sorry for, because I believe that if we are serious about the fact that we have to solve transit problems or this traffic problem – it is not just a transit problem – we could all help by finally bringing together a unanimous resolution on this project and on the process to strengthen our representatives, including at European level. We will make an excuse here again and ask for your support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What's this about? – We need a tunnel that is – stupidly – the most expensive transport project in Europe. Pure construction costs 5 to 6 billion € without financing costs. If only one freight tunnel were to be built and no longer to have an alternative to ever closer air traffic in the future, savings of a maximum of 10 percent would be possible. They don't really stand to debate when you're setting up a century project. So that's 5 to 6 billion euros that can be financed. I just know that as far as financing is concerned, we can never expect these amounts to amortize in such a way that it will eventually really be a business with profits for all those who have co-financed it. Indeed, it has never become a business throughout Austria due to the revenue from the railway toll. If it were different, any private would have been building tunnels for a long time and we would not have to worry about this discussion here. However, private investors must bear a part of the costs and the operation must subsequently be economically managed. It's very easy – framework conditions to or from, as time hastens us –: With 1.9 million journeys today more trucks than all Swiss Alpine crossings combined over the Brenner. Over the mountains, through the tunnels through Switzerland there are much less journeys than alone over the Brenner. We have to do it without building If and But this infrastructure, which is going to be profitable on its own and has to be – even without the EU’s desired framework conditions – because then at some point there will be nothing going on the motorway. We have the situation that the Italian motorway company already wants to invest its entire reserves of several billion – still – in the tunnel. She does not want this because she does not know where else with the money, but because she knows that we will not succeed and that it is not reasonable for the population to build the motorway on four tracks in each direction. We urgently need this most important Alpine transition! So we need to expand the brenner-alpentransversal underground. The increase in traffic alone, which I regret, will mean that even without accompanying these tunnels will be a success.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10574	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10624	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Today’s “Kurier” mentions that 5 000 jobs per year in the manufacturing industry are disappearing due to different contexts and reasons. I do not want to go any further on the grounds; they are diverse and connected with globalisation, with increasing productivity. In any case, it is a fact that the manufacturing industry has fewer jobs that it loses jobs on a continuous basis. What experts agree on is that the only way to get jobs back is to increase the skills of employees, further training and training in businesses and to increase investment in research and development. And this is just an example of what we can constantly observe, namely that research and development is simply a very essential one, both in the field of jobs and economic growth. If we look at our budget now in the field of research and development and if we look at what is being invested here in Austria, we can see several things: on the one hand, that research and technology expenditure is still extremely unclear. They are mainly found in three chapters – 14, 63 and 65. Mr Grünewald is always dealing with a different chapter than I am. We must work hard together to get an overview of research and development. Even if you always praise the new structural changes that have been made by the FFG, I can say; Yes, in the field of research funding, a lot has been achieved with the FFG, but this has not been achieved at all, in order to clean up competence at ministerial level, and this is precisely reflected in this inconspicuous and opaque budget. That is to say, it is de facto, in general, also impossible to compare the research-effective expenditures of recent years. With all the supplements we have received, and due to various changes, it is simply not possible to say in the end just how the research resources have increased. I assume that a lot of investment has been made with the offensives. The Council for Research and Technology Development also tells us that this is what the companies are telling us. What has not happened is that the fixed budget has been increased in the field of research and development. This is one of our criticisms, because the problem arises because the funds are not exactly understood. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to decide each time a new offensive program – that is not what I know depends on everything – and in the regular budget there is no match for this increase. Moreover, the offensives of Parliament's control are essentially withdrawn. I'm not saying they're being forgiven badly right now. In my view, the Council on Research and Technology Development is doing this well at least once in a while. But the fact is: As long as these things are not discussed in Parliament, a part of the research budget is practically distributed and the control of Parliament is withdrawn. I don't think that's all right, and that should be changed from my point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition to these direct grants, there is, of course, the almost indirect, i.e. through tax benefits, through the research allowance and the research premium. It has a positive effect – I say now “seems” rather than “seems” – because you don’t know exactly – positive. However, all economic research institutes agree that this type of research funding produces very large take-over effects. This means that it is not really targeted at research, but it is not quite clear in what direction these funds, which are being managed by the tax benefits of companies, really become effective. In other words, what would be necessary would certainly be a first evaluation in one to two years in which one can see how these tax benefits will become effective and, in the case of the case, also be countered before it is increased and increased, as the colleague stupidly demanded earlier. We will come to the financial chapter even more precisely tomorrow on the topic of National Foundation. The fact that this is not exactly an adjustment of the funds is now evident when we see that the National Bank has to allocate additional funds to the ECB and is actually creating a funding hole here. We have discussed this in the Financial Committee or in the Budget Committee on the financial chapter and will look at it more closely tomorrow. The fact is that these funds are by no means secured because, on the one hand, this is only a virtual foundation and, on the other hand, these funds are by no means secured from the OeNB, as the construction currently looks. I would like to add a few more points. The European research area, because it is not just a matter of quantity, is addressed to the framework programme. It is not just about achieving this 3-percent objective, although I think it is important and, in my view, for many reasons, which Mr Green Forest has also mentioned, it is far away. Colleagues are no longer there, but I really would, I don't know, bet a bottle of good forest-fourtler wine with him that we don't reach this 3 percent. [[Calls.]] - There's it! I can tell you, there is indeed. [[Abg. Kurzbauer: An excellent wine!]] Excellent There is wine in the Waldviertel. All right, at least there's an opinion. So I think we won't reach this 3 percent if you don't make dramatic changes in budgeting. However, what still moves me qualitatively and what I think is very unfortunate is that of the 7th century. The EU's framework programme for the development of nuclear technology is much more important than the development of renewable energy or eco-technology or the information society. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So I think you have a lot to do at European level with regard to what you need to do. Finally, 3 percent. This is a value that also depends on how high GDP is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if we reach 3 percent because GDP does not rise and research expenditure remains the same, then you can be proud of it, but purely mathematically it is not a very big throw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10707	As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10728	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2004, according to current estimates from Statistics Austria, a total of €5.27 billion was expected to be spent on research and development. When Mr Greenewald speaks of the fact that research and development are only about pocket money, this is an argument under the belt line, because this is then carried in the pocket of your pants, according to what you say. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Watch out! Watch out!]] 5,27 billion € that is not nothing, but it is a lot of money that is spent here on this area, which is very important to this government – and we stand by it, and we are proud of it too, Mr President! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I understand now that I have heard you share the work among your colleagues: Obviously, they looked at only one chapter and then somehow had to do it together. [[Abg. Sburny: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And that might have been a little bit of a problem because you couldn't count it all together. But I will tell you once again – as in my last speech on this issue – because you have already said again that the increase will only be measured in the worse years: If you read through the one article in the FORMAT, which I also mentioned last time, and compare the year 1999 with 2004, you will find – and that says the FORMAT, not the government – that much more has been spent in research, that there has been great improvements. [[Abg. Sburny: We read even more than one article in the “FORMAT”!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] This is precisely what a comparison of the years 1999 and 2004 – not by the government, but by the FORMAT – says that there have been real improvements. So not only do you compare the worst years, but it is just data that makes it important to compare them – Mr Broukal, look out! – to show, as the figures were also understood, that it was precisely in the time under your SPÖ Minister One – as Mr Broukal was probably not yet at SPÖ – that there had even been an absolute standstill in the field of research. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: What's right!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Is this the magazine with the many government inserates, the FORMAT?]] Once you have to note that there has been a standstill in this area at the time, but that this government has used offensive funds and will show that the field of research and development is a very important area for this federal government. The focus policy now being made is now a different kind of policy from that under the principle of foundry, than the policy of giving money only to institutions – without knowing what happens in the final effect without obtaining any proof of performance. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Under the current priority policy, the institutions are then demanding that they invest money precisely in those areas where Austrian priorities are set for the future. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Do you know one?]] In the meantime, we have the Council as a body which advises the government in this area and sets out precisely these priorities. As you regret that so many ministries are entrusted with it: It is precisely this that we see that the research of the entire government is a major concern and that money is therefore made available in all areas. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Sburny.]] If, on the one hand, scientists are always required to separate basic research and applied research, on the other hand, they are also separated in the ministries. But that doesn't fit you either, there you should put them together. So you have to think about where you really want a separation and where you don't want it. We believe that it is important that several ministries are involved in this, but there must be a common goal – and we all know that that is what you support. This common objective is to reach 3% of GDP by 2010. Even if you make the target bad again now and say: 3 per cent of GDP because GDP is still lower. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: No, not the target! I said that's not how you'll achieve it!]] You're doing bad now without knowing what's going on afterwards, that's the problem. [[Abg. Sburny: I said the target is okay! You won't reach it!]] Aha, the goal is fine – and we will achieve it. You will see, ladies and gentlemen, we will achieve it if we are still in the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10912	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10933	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Since the last increase in mileage, i.e. from June 1997 to February 2005, the cost of drivers, car costs, has increased by 17.3 percent. Much of this price is clearly due to the massive burden policy of the Federal Government – which the ARBÖ has today demonstrated in a press release. In view of the international record price trend in crude oil, which a small country like Austria, as we know, unfortunately cannot decouple, the government cannot take responsibility. Higher mileage and higher penalty rates are overdue in view of the many costs around the car. Since 1997, the official mileage has remained unchanged at 36 cents per kilometer. I believe that the kilometre money should be increased by at least 4.5 cents, i.e. 40.5 cents and the shuttle fee by a further 15 per cent, in order to compensate at least a small part of this cost for about 1.5 million professional car counterparts and career-related journeys. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Instead of easing the drivers, this federal government believes that they will have a further wave of inflation with the introduction of the biodiesel from autumn 2005. Once again, the payees and payees are well asked to the cash register and dropped, while the big corporations write the highest profits in history, as they pay the lowest profit taxes in history. That's inconvenient! This transport policy on the back of the “little people” is to be rejected!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10971	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10992	Mr President. High house! I would like to start by thanking all the drivers for paying so much for the budget. The 2006 estimate shows the following: Mineral oil tax, standard consumption tax, motor insurance tax and car tax are paid €5.6 billion. €5.6 billion! What about road construction? – Countries and municipalities receive €875 million for federal roads and shares of oil and motor vehicle taxes. This is used for road construction. What is it used for high-level road construction? - Nothing. But it must continue, so the drivers pay once more, namely € 300 million in the form of vignettes, € 600 million in road pricing, € 160 million in special tolls, a total of € 1 060 million to the Asfinag. – But something is really being built for this: in 2006 perhaps up to €1.5 billion for new buildings and repairs; if it can't be realized, at least €1.3 billion. Rudolf Parnigonihat said we have such high debts at Asfinag. – Surely we owe €8.5 billion at Asfinag, but if only the money that drivers pay in the budget per year and that is not used for road construction would be used to repay the debt of Asfinag, the Asfinag would be debt free in two years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is not possible, however, because we need the money for public transport. €1 022 million will be invested in the railway infrastructure, plus €1.2 billion, which the ÖBB receives in loans. So €2.2 billion will be invested in the railway infrastructure. This is much more than ever invested under a SPÖ Transport and SPÖ Finance Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also have the public service, the metro construction in Vienna, transport associations, private rail transport and almost 1.4 billion for the ÖBB-pensions. Thus, a total of €3.2 billion is used directly for the rails and the €1.2 billion where the federal government is liable for the loans. Overall, a huge volume that flows into transport investment and thus becomes directly effective for the economy. Another word for the Semmering Base Tunnel. It means that the better is the enemy of good. The previously planned Semmering base tunnel was the second best project. The best project – that was clear to everyone 15 years ago – was the "Flachbahn" Gloggnitz–Langenwang. This project was reduced to the project Mürzzuschlag, which was then under way, because the costs were too high. We know that SPÖ Landesräte Niederösterreich's negative nature conservation decisions have been adopted. There is an opinion by Professor Aigner, who once said that this could go so further ad infinitum so that one could never build. That is why, as I believe, it makes sense for this step to be taken now. I am also sorry that a major delay has occurred – and that this will become more expensive, but we now have a better project. I hope that, as planned, we can really drive through the Semmering Base Tunnel in about 15 years.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11062	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11084	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been shown that the fragmentation of the ÖBB has broken out in many areas of chaos. And this, Mr. State Secretary Kukacka, is going to your account! This chaos exists – and it was also to be expected. [[Secretary of State Mag. Kukacka can be found in written documents.]] – Mr State Secretary, perhaps you can listen to me a little and then sign the files, because these are things you should deal with! [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Kukacka]] [[Abg. Sburny: I think he's just drawing nervous!]] If you already build Push, you also have the duty to undo it again! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I must confess, ladies and gentlemen, I do not yet know how many individual companies there are in this holding, but with those I have experienced up to now, I can only say: It's just a joke, Mr. State Secretary! And I'll tell you a story. Recently, I wanted to go home by train, to Steyr. I came to the station – and there was just an ÖBB staff member coming by with a radio to which I said: You, I've got to get into the train now, but there's no matching car, how's that going now? – He says: Questions S’ mi net; i am not responsible; i am from the net! That's what I'm saying: From where you san, is ma Wurst; You did a ÖBBler, I see that on your jacket – and you tell me now! – He said: No, for he was actually obliged not to provide information, but to leave people standing; they should see for themselves how they find themselves right. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course, I had bad luck with this ÖBB staff, which was clear. Only: He didn't know. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then we are together in the passenger service line: I'm rolling, he's marching. Arrived, I asked: You, what's mom doing now? And put my things down. – On that he: You, i'm just responsible, I'm from...! I don't know what he said anymore! – I said: This is Ma a Wursch, because I want to ride there now! How do I do now? In any case: Nobody knew anything at this station. As a result, I said: You, if you don't know anything, I'll give you an alternative: I'll take another train, and you'll stop it in St. Valentin so I can get out! Anyway, I didn't want to go to Linz, stand there for an hour at the station, and then have to go back to Steyr. – He asked: Why do S’ know about this? – I said: Well, because I also know a little bit’ in the schedule! - That's how it was done. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I think we already know this story! You've told this story before!]] - That was the one thing. I trust to say that I am sometimes more ÖBB expert than some who sit there for maybe 20, 30 years, well, maybe not so long. So I could certainly look after the customers at the station better than some of those who are standing around there now. I just trust that. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A few days later I had to return to Vienna, called at the station in Steyr and said: Yes, hello, at 5.18 p.m. I'm going back to Vienna by train, and I need an entry-level aid again. - Then it's called: Yeah, no problem, let's do it! – So I drive to the station in Steyr, the driver comes out and says: There's a problem! – On that I: What's the lift? – On the road service manager in Steyr: Well, he works eh, but he said in St. Valentin you should go to Linz and then change to Linz, because there is no staff in St. Valentin anymore! – I said: I don’t care, I’m not going to Linz, I’m going to go to St. Valentin’s! On this point, the head of the passenger service shall: After that, S’ a problem will get! – I say to him: Give me the driver of St. Valentin's phone, I'll clear this up with him! I called him and said, You, I'm not going to Linz, I'm going to St. Valentin! – On that, the head of the driving service of St. Valentin: We don't have any staff! – On that I: Then push S’ up! – He says: After driving S’ to Linz! – I say: Know what, I'm telling you now what: If I have to go to Linz to change, there will be a groovy G’s layer tomorrow in the media! – He said: That's what we've been living at all! – I say: Well, S’ at least know where this comes from! At any rate, it was possible for me to change to St. Valentin, because the driver had the “Gnade” to press a button in his headquarters to inform Linz so that they would inform the IC train attendants that I wanted to get in to St. Valentin. It worked out then, but it only worked out because it was me who wanted to drive there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If this had been someone who had not had 11 years of experience with the ÖBB and who did not know all of these “tricks” and “fine” then he would probably have stood by and never left the train again. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That this is the case now that no one wants to attack anything at a station, because he automatically says: I'm not part of that game, I'm from another company! That, Mr. State Secretary, has grown on your shit, as it were! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] There is, like me, a great need for reform and action! It may already be that it might be useful – and I do not know these details exactly – to separate and reorganise certain areas there, but: What you've done there from ÖVP and FPÖ is such a palawatsch that no one really knows! I am convinced that individual employees of public transport companies can easily fail to know for themselves where they really belong: to passenger transport, to infrastructure or to any other area. - That's how the situation looks! Mr State Secretary, you have something to consider that something is changing there, and that is to the positive! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Since I do not take certain things as they are, I have naturally tried to get in touch with the people of the ÖBB, i.e. with the new board of directors and managing directors in this regard, to make it clear to them what is going on now on railway stations and so on. And since – I have to say that quite honestly – I have found open ears at Director Stefan Wehinger. I would like to mention this positively, because it is. We made a call, met – and it was a really constructive conversation. I really have the impression that Mr Director Wehinger is trying to do something when it comes to improving the situation of persons with reduced mobility. Only, Secretary of State Kukacka: There's nothing going on without money either!; that's logical. In any case, Mr State Secretary: In a very short time, we will be standing on the doorstep with you and with Mr Gorbach, so to speak, because it takes financial means to make public transport accessible – in this case at the ÖBB – so that there is something going on at last! Mr State Secretary, earlier there was money for a barrier-free design, but Mrs. Forstinger has deleted it with the “foundation” that everything went well. [[Abg. Rädler: Passed is nothing!]] You don't need a single cent anymore, because it all happened anyway, she said. – I say to you: It doesn't fit! There are good ideas as to how to implement certain things, and these good ideas come from the Austrian disability movement. We've found Dr. Wehinger's hearing for this, and he's supporting us. And of course, I have this promise not only verbally, but also in writing. In order for this to be implemented, it is necessary, as has been said, to provide financial resources. Mr Kukacka, I say to you now: Look Once in your budgets – we will appear with you in the next two months – you will be able to make us a veritable offer to make how much money you make available for it so that barrier-free design of ÖBB facilities is ensured. Mr Kukacka, give this to your secretariat so that it will tell us when we get an appointment, because I insist on such an appointment. And if I don't get an appointment, I'll be right there. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Yes, that would be my contribution to the ÖBB today. But I am – unfortunately! – Convinced that it will take a long time until it really works, that travel with the ÖBB will become a matter of course even for mobility impaired people. There are, as has been said, signals in this direction, but there is still a lack of the necessary money. But, Mr State Secretary: That's what you're responsible for! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11238	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11259	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! One thing is undisputed: It has never been built as much as it is now, never so much invested in the rail, road and also in modern infrastructure. These investments are not only investments in infrastructure and in the future, but above all can also be converted into jobs. That is, a very positive impact on the labour market. At the same time, however, it must not be forgotten that the money for these infrastructure measures must, of course, also be used. I think that this Federal Government is excellent in finding the right measure and making a policy that is forward-looking and responsible. You can say a success story. In the same way, this is also true in the field of research and development, which is also a major focus of this federal government's policy, and I am convinced that the objective of research and development is to: 3 per cent of gross domestic product in 2010 will also be achieved. Mr. State Secretary, you allow me to try and take up the debate for 160 km/h. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] I think it is very strange when reflex-like reactions come up, a resurgence of the no-sackers, namely the no-sackers from principle, a resurgence of preventers. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I think this is a refusal to discuss, and I find it bad if you can't discuss it – no matter what position you take – and if you just hold on to one stare and, as I mean, not particularly intelligent system, a system of the past. Whether the user of Austrian motorways accepts the sensuality of this rigid system or not: He's questioning them anyway. This will, I think, be a shock, and an exchange of information or argumentation would certainly be appropriate. As an argumentation rail, there is not enough simply to talk about the injured on Austria's roads or the fatalities of traffic. At any rate, I would like to have the discussion about an intelligent system, about a traffic impact system, which, of course, represents a new management, and I would welcome it if such a discussion could be held once away from emotions. Another word about aviation. Mr Secretary of State, I particularly welcome the fact that the JAR-FCL, a private European association with regard to aviation licences, is no longer being worked on in Austria. We have already learned the nonsense of this effect on the basis of the discussions we have held with representatives of the Federal Republic of Germany. Even from the authority side, it is advised that this JAR-FCL should be transposed into national law. So I welcome the extraordinary fact that this has been stopped. It cannot be that we are unfiltered in national law to implement measures that lead to a cost explosion in the field of aviation, in particular the general aviation, and to a bloating of the administrative burden. In that respect, I think we have a great opportunity with the EASA, with the competent European authority, and I think it will be possible to find reasonable rules at national level too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11325	As the next speaker, Deputies Dr. Herb is reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11347	Mr Gorbach is quite clearly now far away, but really doesn't matter. He certainly already has his place in the ancestral gallery of the failed FPÖ ministers between Reichhold and Forstinger, I would suggest, but it is already significant that he is blackened his own transport budget today and obviously new. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I make the following request – Mr Lopatka is already looking quite shocked –: [[Quoted print version removed]] That'll be the nail sample, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Regler: Where only the SPÖ councils have to adopt positive decisions!]] And please do not come with the reproach of federalism or nature and environmental protection! When you decided on the EIA-Novelle, that was what Wursch told you. When you tried to get under the carpet this Spielberg debacle, the rubble pile that Mrs. Klasnic had set up in Spielberg, you didn't care! Mr Lopatka, you will certainly argue here why you do not want to vote in favour of the Semmering base tunnel. The newspapers are right when they write: “Falsches Spiel um Semmering-basistunnel” (Falsches Spiel um Semmering-basistunnel) or – and this is addressed to the address of Mr. Lopatka – “Bahn tunnel as a campaign-gag”. Not only the “Kronen Zeitung”, also the “Kleine Zeitung” writes this. The “resurrectioner” on the day of the Council of Ministers writes: ‘Only a Deja-vu’. Let's go back to the calendar: There was the project of a Semmering tunnel with solemn inspiration of the probe. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you've already put this up back then. [[The speaker holds a poster in height.]] There was Mrs. Klasnic a very young woman. At that time, it has already “perfected” the Semmering base tunnel. – There is no mention of it at all today. So it's really very interesting. You know, Mr. Lopatka, what in the ORF radio on 10th. But the hearing question was? – What about the “Waltraud Klasnic Stolls” now? There have been very interesting contributions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka.]] Do you want to make an underground cross-country run, maybe the A1 racetrack? Could the Klasnic steels serve as a Christian stollen or as an office for the blue-black government or best as a high-security prison for the Styrian ÖVP? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you today do not agree with this federal competence for the Semmering Base Tunnel, then all of this finally turns out to be an election hat. Mr Lopatka, if you still want to save a spark of credibility, then now come out and say, of course, you will join this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11433	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Dr Kräuben and colleagues, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11463	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, take a very close look at this request by my colleague Herb, and thus also the Socialist Group, and deal with it. In particular, we will also consider whether the Social Democratic Councils and the Heads of State will agree to this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, because the rage clearly and clearly also means a restriction of nature conservation skills, for example of the countries. And the Social Democrats and the Heads of State have so far vehemently spoken against it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] So, first of all, by the SPÖ, you are producing the unity in your party, so that we do not get the necessary cross-shots from the national conference! I would like to say this on this subject, ladies and gentlemen. At all events, Mr Herzegovina and Mr Parnigoni, we all understand criticism – of course it is important and also the task of the opposition to practice criticism and control the government – but of course we cannot disappear entirely from the responsibility we have had for many years, for example in transport policy agendas. Mr Parnigoni has said what is being built here, that is all very nice and good, in the area of rail infrastructure and the road system, but this is all happening on pump! – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is partly also happening on pump, and we also acknowledge this because infrastructure, transport infrastructure, of course, is also an investment in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Puswald]] Of course, future generations must also contribute to the refinancing of this infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen. But what did you do? – Yes, for God’s sake, what was built on road construction and rail infrastructure at that time has all been built only on pump, much more grave than today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Don't rain up! How was the ASFINAG, ladies and gentlemen? – Yes, I was the Transport Speaker, I do not criticize it, you have criticized it. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: They were the traffic speaker!]] They say everything is built on pump, not me. I note that the Social Democratic Transport and Finance Ministers have set up the ASFINAG debt of 140 billion schilling, which we still have to repay today. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] And what did this government do, ladies and gentlemen? – We have introduced the toll, the truck toll, and in addition 600 million € from the truck toll are taken in this respect. [[Abg. Eder: We have introduced them together!]] We have thus created a self-financing system. For the first time in history, the expenditure involved will be covered by revenue financed by the truck economy, but also by private car owners. That's what it looks like at the moment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have changed the system, we have set up a self-financing system, we have put road construction on healthy legs. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same thing happened with the rails, ladies and gentlemen. We have also changed the system: It is no longer, as was the case in the past, simply financed by SCHIG everything on debt. €120 billion has been incurred by SPÖ Transport and Finance Ministers in the rail sector! [[Abg. Neudeck: How much was that?]] – 120 billion schilling! What did this federal government do? – First, it has made the ÖBB reform, and it has once deducted half of the debt incurred in this field from the ÖBB by half the past debt of the Finance Minister of that government. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I know you speculate on the short-term political memory of the population, but I have a long-term long-term traffic memory. [[Abg. Lentic: Fuck G's layer!]] I know exactly what social-democratic transport and financial ministers have done in this area, ladies and gentlemen. I also wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how it was with the Semmering base tunnel. [[Abg. Marizzi: Oh, you!]] You say from SPÖ that Mr Pröll has the blame. – Yes, it is true that the country of Lower Austria has exploited and said: We are against this project in the interests of the arrainers and nature conservation. This is his good right, ladies and gentlemen, even though we do not agree politically at the federal level, but Mr Pröll has the interests of the country and of the neighbouring countries. But then what happened? – Then you have made the accusation that €93 million has been “brown” there, have been installed in these test stables, which are irrevocably gone today. – Yes, that is true, ladies and gentlemen, but why did that happen? – Because Social Democratic Transport Ministers have commissioned the construction of this test tunnel without the appropriate nature protection laws and other water-law permits being finally available! That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has been built without sufficient final approvals, and this has led to the loss of this money at the final construction stop by the highest courts. That's the truth, and we won't pass that. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You don't come by, it's fixed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl criticised the fact that the drivers are burdened. Yes, drivers have to pay a lot of money today, including for financing public expenditure and transport infrastructure. However, Mr Heinzl has forgotten that, in the course of the last tax reform, the increase in the penalty rate of 675 000 Austrian counterparts by more than 30 € per year paid less taxes, so that the taxpayers of the tax reform have generally benefited as much as from the collective reform and from the higher deposits for single earners. [[Call the SPÖ: Please, that's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you should also say that! You are simply too one-sided in your argument – and this is the problem when we are having transport policy discussions here! Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Haidlmayr said is quite right. I will take the opportunity to ask the ÖBB for an answer today and also the protocol on this subject, because the meaning of this rail reform was that there was a greater sense of service, that the service would be improved there, and that the overall customer orientation of the railway would be better. That was the meaning of the reform, and that is why we made it, but the operational implementation must, of course, take place there. And we know that there is still resistance in this regard, but I am convinced that it will succeed to eliminate this resistance, because also the ÖBB and the new ÖBB leadership have recognized that the times of the old monopoly are finally over. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, we have already indicated to ÖBB that a customer charter will be introduced there – also a consequence of this rail reform – a customer charter that points to exactly what services will be provided by the staff, which the customer can rely on and which replacement claims of the individual travellers will have if the service is not sufficient and the railway does not bring the services to which it is obliged. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also a consequence of the reform and a way to more customer orientation, to more service, to more service families that we can write on the flags from this Federal Government. Mr. Management Director Dr. Wehinger – he has already been mentioned – is in this case the right address. He is the competent staff manager or board of directors for passenger transport and has already accepted this matter. I am convinced that this will be done positively. Ladies and gentlemen! So you see that it is about making a transport policy that really builds on the needs of people. In this direction, we are on our way, and I believe it is necessary that we reject all the unilateralities and together try to go really new, modern, forward-looking ways in this area in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11654	Mr Eder has spoken on an actual amendment. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] I refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11686	Mr President. Mr Kukacka has said here that we from SPÖ have introduced the truck toll! – That is, so expressed, just wrong! It is true that in 1996, under Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel, the truck toll was legally decided and the introduction of this toll was prevented by the ÖVP truck lobby for six years, which meant a loss of 25 billion schilling for the Austrian population. [[Oh-run of the Abg. Dr Puswald]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Aha!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11732	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11766	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Destiny is justifiable, because this is something that has now been offered by my colleague, herbs, must be put in place very quickly and should not be left in the room for the longer time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is now 2.30 p.m. and yet I have to say “good morning” to my colleague, because he actually has until 6. ==References====External links== However, we have to wait a long time, because Schüssel, Gorbach, Klasnic and Pröll – and these are the ones responsible – have agreed that this tunnel is coming. [[Abg. Dr. Herbe holds two newspapers in the height with the headlines: “Bahn tunnel as a campaign-gag” and “Falsches Spiel mit Semmeringtunnel”.]] You can show me so many newspapers with headlines here, the Semmering Base Tunnel will come against the SPÖ's will! They are the ones who are trying by all means to dissuade this project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Vienna – Linz – Graz Inner Austrian Economic Area will be closed with the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Abg. Herbs, in turn, keep the two newspapers up to date with the mentioned headlines.]] That's not a wrong game! [[Abg. Eder: That's cockbucks! The pomp has prevented it!]] Strings, schools, climate and one have failed, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ – Schüssel and Gorbach will implement it together with Klasnic and Pröll, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They will implement it in a form where, of course, we take account of the federalist idea of the Republic of Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We will very well, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, bring to their attention your request concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, with which nature and landscape protection in the case of high-performance railways should go into the competence of the federal government. I'm excited how you'll be responsible, my colleague, herbs. They don't leave a fat cap. You have also met in this fully now.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11826	The next item is Mrs Binder's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11848	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lopatka, your speech belongs to the country of dreams. Clearly and clearly: The SPÖ stands for the tunnel crossing of Semmering. [[Abg. Hornek: Really? What is the name of the SPÖ Council of State in Lower Austria?]] We're going to the Semmering Base Tunnel! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The planned Tress Landesbührer Pröll – and no one else! - That's the first one. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr State Secretary, your long-term memory may work, but you have made allegations here and told stories that may be pleasant to you, but that have absolutely nothing to do with the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also important to note that you are very happy to beautify yourself with foreign feathers. If you are finally saying, Mr State Secretary, after you have played the opposition properly here, [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: Well, well!]] [[Abg. Hornek: (Ironically laughing) Ah that!]] Let me invite you, let us together make a constructive transport policy!, then I must ask you: What's that supposed to look like? So, as the dialogue has been conducted in recent times, that is, one-sided? – This is not a dialogue! That's not how we want to work with you! Mr Minister, it is basically to be said that you are absolutely sparse in transport policy. It works almost nothing more; there I give the colleague Haidlmayr rights. The reason for this is the demolition and division of the Austrian Federal Railways. People do not know who is responsible for what. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Gorbach.]] – Saying You don’t “go, please!” behind my back! – Although people have jobs, in part they do not know what they actually have to do with what skills they have. [[Abg. Hornek: They didn't know that for years!]] We have to thank the railways for being able to drive the railways at all, because if it went to you, the safety and quality would no longer be right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you are clearly smack. What we really need would be a political Taurus! But your policy is absolutely on the line.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11977	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11998	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to talk about a subject that covers my field of activity, namely research and development in Austria. I am pleased that the opposition is also of the opinion that there is a research offensive. The Austrian Federal Government has announced its commitment to make research the central issue of its government from the year 2000, and it is actually paying off. It proves comparisons, especially those from the countries of the Northern European Region, that there, where a research offensive was initiated, actually after a few years of first securing jobs, second, the economy is growing and third, incomes are also rising. That is why we have also decided to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! In spite of this, I must say that there is sufficient funding in 2005 and that we will also have sufficient resources to bring the research offensive where we want it in 2006 because of this budget. We want to use the research offensive to reach the 2.5% rate in 2006 and finally the 3-percent rate in 2010. You too know why. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is known that one is not just seeking to play numbers because of this research rate, but because it is the achievement of a goal set by the European Union. The European Union – but it has already revised this in the meantime – took the view that one should start a pick-up process towards the economic areas of Japan and, above all, the USA, so that Europe actually has enough economic strength and economic strength in the medium term, so that these two competitors in the economic field can really offer Paroli. But this objective has been relativized by the accession of the ten new Member States to the EU. It was Wim Kok – and I can remember that we already had a conversation about it – who already relativized it, who said: Of course, due to the accession of the ten new Member States, which are under the current European Union research quota in the field of research, this objective will not be achieved! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But we in Austria, the Austrian Federal Government is still committed to the achievement of this strategy and to the achievement of these research objectives! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I will soon invite the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to talk to me about the future research strategy. The aim must be – this has already been addressed by Professor Grünewald today; I believe, on the right track, that the research offensive is politically beyond dispute in the future. After 2006, it must be ensured, especially for all those companies and persons who want to research in the medium term, that there is a corresponding research funding from the Austrian Federal Government, which ensures that research in Austria continues to take precedence in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A very important point is the seventh EU Framework Programme for Research, which is currently being launched in the European Union in Brussels. This programme covers the topic of security research. It is known that the issue of "security research" has therefore come into the Seventh EU Research Framework Programme, because in recent years, particularly in the European arms industry, the scope of the research area has decreased significantly. After the end of the Cold War, the situation of the armaments industry in Europe – with only a small exception – was relatively gloomy, and these were subcontracts that were then awarded by the USA to European arms companies on the occasion of the Iraq war. The European Union is now trying to rebuild the arms industry, so to speak, with this issue, which is defined by the word "security research". We in Austria are in a completely different position: On the one hand, the Neutrality Act and, on the other hand, of course, other legal bases make it impossible – and I personally think this is the right thing to do – to advance arms research. We are looking for niches – and we are already doing – whether they are in the field of transport safety or environmental safety. But also the areas of container safety, aviation, access controls and also many technology areas that need to be researched will be for us future markets, where we want to attract money from the European Union from the field of security research for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Austria is, by the way, well positioned as regards the renovation of research institutions and the presentation of research. I remember Tech Gate I and Tech Gate II. I also remember the “House of Research”. I also remember that the largest Austrian non-university research institution, the research centre Seibersdorf, is thoroughly renovated and renovated and well presented. An office building with 1 400 square meters of office space is being built, and so to speak, this container village is renovated there. You can rest assured once: It provides excellent performance in Seibersdorf, doing good research, but the framework conditions are suboptimal to say it. As I said, a new office building is being built in Seibersdorf. A total of € 4.5 million of rehabilitation measures are being implemented. This year alone, €1.8 million will be used. Finally, the use of energy in the area of Seibersdorf is being reorganised, so that in the medium term, there will also be a substantial energy saving to be achieved. Let me now come to the budget. From our point of view – you can wish for more and more! – are the objectives: In 2006 to reach the 2.5 percent research rate and reach the 3 percent research rate in 2010, so it is so important to create and secure jobs in Austria so that the social network can be maintained and expanded so that economic growth increases and thus ultimately the Austrian population has some of it. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: What will you be called 2010?]] - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12062	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12083	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that the social democrats' ranks are almost empty or more than half of the SPÖ members have gone out, because if I look at the transport and infrastructure policies of the last 30 years, I have to say: A real achievement wasn't that! I looked at this: In 1984, Lacina, Strings, Climate, Scholten and A Transport Minister were. What did they do? – Planning, planning, planning, testing, testing, checking, then they started from the beginning again. The reality really wasn't the point! [[Abg. Eder: 1984, in just one year?]] Now we have a transport and infrastructure minister, and now we really have movement into the whole. The plant, the one that checks and the one that also realizes! [[Abg. Eder: Where?]] Please be careful so that you can tell the truth in public! [[Abg. Eder: I'll be careful.]] Compared with the 14 years of the SPÖ Coalition Government or the Minister of Transport at that time, this infrastructure minister has provided 60 percent more budget resources and has also implemented them. As an example, I mention only the coral track: 4 billion € investment, 40 000 jobs! [[Abg. Eder: 40,000 jobs (hands collapsing)?- Oh, my God!]] You have sent the workers in the national authorities after you have locked up the national establishments to unemployment or early retirement. This Minister of Transport and Vice-Chancellor makes a positive policy, he looks forward to and makes a general transport plan. [[Complaints with the liberals]] He looks into the future, acts in a timely manner, and looks forward. Next point: By 2010, €30 billion will be used for road and rail. This is the engine of the construction industry. There you can say: This creates and secures jobs! This is the future of the economy! In road construction, not much has happened among SPÖ ministers. It's different since our transport minister is in office. Only a few examples from Upper Austria: the housing of the A 7 in the area of Bindermichl, the tunnel in Ebelsberg, the tunnel in Neumarkt, the bypass of Perg and much more. You've been planning for 30 years, our minister is in office for two years, and he's realized. – Read, think, count and then talk first would actually be the foreign exchange! Or – a future program, especially for the Mühlviertel, which I am pleased with – the neutralisation of the S 10. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What does that bring? – Not only the construction of roads, but also the safety of traffic – this will make it faster for you to reach the workplaces – and as a side effect also business settlements. If the corresponding infrastructure is available, the establishments are ready to settle outside the country. You can see it: Until Unterstreibsdorf, where there is a motorway, businesses are constantly operating. First of all, this is good for rural areas, second, it is good for the municipalities' cash registers, and thirdly, it is positive because workers do not have to go that far. But it's also good for the environment, because: The fewer vehicles on the road, the less environmental sins there are. The extension of the Summerauerbahn is particularly pleasing for the Mühlviertel. How long have you been talking about it? – I can still remember that. It is of course also difficult in the Mühlviertel to work with Social Democratic MEPs. Thus, before the Landtagswahl SPÖ-Landtagsreiter Affenzeller said: No, to build the A7, that's not in question for me! – But then he got a vertebra in his district, and then he said: Well, maybe it'll come into question! Later it said: It is in question, because he had to surrender under the pressure of the population. You also have a few members there, and they said to him: Dear friend, we have to travel to the central room every day, we want to have a suitable road where we can quickly come to our workplace! The Summerauerbahn is also being expanded. But because of the flexibility of working time and the lack of opportunity to be at work by train or by public transport in a short time, we now have to drive by car to the workplace. – That’s why, I think, this is a good thing. But that didn't make a SPÖ transport minister! I can't remember that. As I said, you only planned, but didn't realize anything. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But our Deputy Chancellor and infrastructure minister Hubert Gorbach is the engine of the economy, the construction industry. Hubert, you still have long infrastructure ministers to stay, then the future for employees, for the economy and for the environment in Austria looks positive!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12193	Mr Eder spoke in favour of a further actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12217	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament Walch claimed that 40,000 employees were employed in the work on the Koralm Tunnel. - That's wrong! It's true that it's about 400. – So they would have to work for 100 years to complete the tunnel. Mr Walch has also claimed that in 1984 the ministers were Scholten, Streicher, Lacina, Eins und Klima Verkehrsminister. - That's wrong! It is true that until September 1984 Minister Lausecker and from 10. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12265	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12287	Dear gentlemen! High house! In 2004, 92 motorcyclists and a motorcycle driver died on Austria's roads. That's 10 percent less than in the year before, but if you look at the weather differences, namely the dream summer 2003 and the worse motorcycle weather in 2004, it's clear that there's still a lot to do. For example, there is a need for action on the issue of direct rails: As long as there is no permanent underpass protection, there can still be too much, very serious accidents, there is often a very bad impact of crashing on sharp-edged guide rails. I think that there should finally be a uniform federal regime for the implementation of these guidelines. With regard to perfection according to the new driving licence law, it is quite incomprehensible to me, Minister, why you do not want to have the overtaking of single and multi-track motor vehicles specifically practiced in the Implementing Regulation. It would really contribute to improving the awareness of drivers when they learned that there is a difference whether they are passing by a single-track or a two-track motor vehicle. Although you write to me in your letter, that is absolutely unnecessary, I think it is rather unthinkable not to perceive the special risk of accidents of single-trackers. There is still a need for action in the use of alternating marks, both between cars and motorcycles, in the release of bus tracks for single-trackers in the StVO; there should finally be six-month autobahn vignettes for single-trackers. It would also be important to do something to reduce red tape when approving motorcycle accessories. The standard consumption charge for motorcycles should be calculated differently, not by engine compartment, but really after standard consumption. Accident sites should be rehabilitated – and much, much more! I don't quite understand: There are so many initiatives around the motorcycle, starting from the platform motorcycle, the Red Biker, the Biker Project, arge2Rad, the Dykes on Bike, the Blue Knights Austria, the community of Austrian motorcycle clubs, the Harley Owners Group, the Austrian Biker Union and the Hells Angels and Outsiders. But all their demands – their legitimate demands! – Just ignore it! Only: Her policy of ignorance can be quite deadly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12355	Mr Gorbach spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12376	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I can only take a brief look at two or three comments that I do not want to leave in the room, namely the obvious permanent burner Brennermaut and Brenner Base Tunnel. But also the ÖBB and the ÖBB reform seem to be a permanent burner in these debates. Since I am here by Mrs Gabriele Binder has heard that there are people at the ÖBB who do not know what to do or what to do, I can make you an offer that please take seriously: [[Abg. Binder: Yes, yes!]] Call me these people! As owner, I will personally make sure that they know what they have to do in the future! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Vorm Walde is such a one!]] [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: You don't have a law, that's a stock company! There's no access!]] That's exactly the difference: In the past, there was too little concern about the fact that there is also a meaningful work at every workplace and is taking place, but one has only taken care that as many people as possible are recruited, that there is no flexibility, that there can be no redundancies, no redundancies, no redundancies – so that the largest companies in Austria with 47 000 employees – and I have not yet taken part in the post-bus, bus, by which 7 000 more come – practically unruly, unmanoevable. Ladies and gentlemen, if we had shubbled this ÖBB reform, which had already been launched in front of me by Social Democratic Ministers, only at some point – for whatever reason – we would not have started it in the last print, we would have decided to implement it, the ÖBB would not be competitive internationally. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Say something for the forest!]] [[Abg. Binder: That's not her now!]] Then this man really didn't know what to do because he didn't have an employer ÖBB anymore! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: What do you say about Vorm Walde?]] Another thing: It is always taken over so salopp, which some have very plausibly formulated – even the highly valued trade union leader Vergestnitsch has it in In the course of the discussion always said – that we would only create heads and no Indians. [[Abg. That's how it is! Yes!]] Today, too, there was a slight drop in the number of overheads acquired by the restructuring. The present structure creates clear conditions! [[Abg. Binder: No!]] First of all, talk to ÖBB employees also in middle management, which will confirm to you that the areas of responsibility are now at last very clear! [[Abg. Mandak: No!]] [[Abg. Binder: I'm dreaming!]] And, second, listen to me, I'll tell you what this looks like: If I compare the senior positions, the managing director, board of directors or director – as it used to be called or now called – then you will find that we had 28 such posts in the old form and now only more than 19. I'm just saying something about it: It will also not raise the sum of wages and salaries; and even if you only look at the line, so the leaders, this sum will not be higher than before, although we have much better and clearer structures. I hope that I have also made this clear in the sense of my predecessor as Vice-Cancellor once again “in all clarity”. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was also discussed by some here rather inconsistency about the Semmering base tunnel. – It is undisputed that this is important. The South Railway is extremely important for the economic development of the southern region, which has been neglected for decades – by whom I leave you to answer. It is also essential in the international ranking of the important European networks. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: (two “Kronen Zeitung” cover with the headlines “Fal-sches Spiel mit Semmeringtunnel” and “Basistunnel als Wahlkamp-Gag” to the height) That’s what it looks like!]] I'd like to have the newspapers read to you, Dr. Herbs, for yourself. I also read newspapers, but I can judge for myself how it is in one thing, and I don't need any support for that. I would like to stress on this matter: The courts have spoken. We are living in a rule of law, and I hope you will not want to explain to me now that you can simply get away with court decisions and court proceedings. You can't do that! What we have done is to get rid of this procedural situation by finding out, first of all: the Koralmbahn is finally signed, which was one – but not the only – reason, since the two related pieces of Semmering and Koralm must also be coordinated. The Koralmbahn, which was already carried out by my colleague Miedl, is a flat track, designed as a flat track. You should remember three numbers again: 6, 11 and 22! 22 Promille Ascent has the current Semmeringbahn, 11 would have that variant that has been followed so far, and 6 Promille has the Koralmbahn, a value which we also follow with the new Semmeringbahn. You can remember three more numbers without reading paper: 600, 1 400 and 1 600. Now it is possible that a locomotive could transport 600 tons, 1 400 would have been possible in the old version, but 1 600 in the new version – of course also tuned to the coral railway, even more economically and similarly. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Another reason in addition to legal uncertainty – nature conservation procedures, you know that – and, by the way, the economic security and technical adjustment were also the European safety standards that have changed. As a result, the old project should have been adapted accordingly, the new project will, of course, be implemented according to the most modern aspects of safety standards. All in all, this compromise, or this decision, which has fallen between those in charge of the countries of Styria, Lower Austria, also Upper Austria, the Minister of Finance, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and my ability, has finally decomposed the whole project and spread it a little further, a clear manuscript for how this government intends to operate: If the cart's done, someone who pulls him out of the trash will come back! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs keeps two editions of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date.]] This one not only reads the paper and stops inside, but acts so that we can move on. The population, especially the economy in this southern region, which I have mentioned, deserves it that we do not have a newspaper, a just discussing, a parloring, but a trading government. And that will stay the same! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[14:59]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12587	I announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee for the award of the project Stadium Klagenfurt. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. I am now interrupting the negotiations on the consultative group X. [[15:00:24]] Short debate on the response to the question 2383/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12622	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the number 2383/AB. The above-mentioned answer is already distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Parnigoni to open the debate. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12656	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have decided on this discussion of the answer to the question, because not only is the coalition of chair glues and self-defilers responsible for a dramatic reduction in the safety standard in our country, but neither does the population nor the Austrian Parliament provide sufficient and detailed information in this highly sensitive area. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This shows, for example, the answer to Parliament's question 2416/J concerning actual staff positions in executive position 1. December 2004, which is so outrageous that we make it the subject of debate today. To the history: Under Minister of the Interior, Strasser was already tried to cover up the stagnation of the staff in the executive with as imprecise and aberrant information as possible, so in the summer of 2004 we had a very detailed parliamentary request to him concerning actual staff positions, ladies and gentlemen, in the executive, with stand 1. September 2004, that is the question 2102/J. [[Abg. Rädler: Schlögl was that!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Schlögl!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Among other things, we have asked ourselves how the exact staffing position is for all departments, broken down according to each federal state, also broken down by the user groups, e.g. E1, E2a, E2b et cetera. The answers of the Minister of the Interior have clearly exceeded our worst fears about the declining staff. [[Abg. Rädler: You were badly informed!]] Formally – but I would like to admit that – the answer was precisely carried out. In order to get an overview of the actual personnel development in the executive, three months later we asked the same questions to the Minister of the Interior again, but this time as the deadline for the 1. ==References== During the period from September to December, Minister of the Interior, Dr. Strasser, came to us, and therefore, Mrs. Innenminister, you have been responsible for answering the second question. It was certainly one of your first interactions with the Austrian Parliament, and we are all the more shaken, because the quality of the reply is really bad! Although the catalogue of questions of the two questions was word-identifiable, an answer was made by you, which completely passed by the subject. On the specific question, for example, about the use groups in the area of the state army commanders – it was Question 1 – your answer was literally – I quote –: ‘There is no breakdown by user group in this context.’ High house! This is indeed a mighty piece. Three months before this breakdown was possible, it was still available. Now, at once, there's no longer that. What has happened in these three months, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Federal Minister? Did you get any files? Did you get any documents stolen from you? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That could be possible. With this crime rate, everything is possible, even in the Ministry of the Interior – possibly. Mrs. Federal Minister, is that why you may not inform your officials accordingly? Has You may not be forwarding all the information available to you to Parliament, to which you are obliged to provide information? I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: How do you stand on this issue?, and make it clear that it is not a small hoppa that could have happened to you and that you could see away because of your short term of office, but a serious negligent, perhaps even misanswered request in one of the most sensitive areas of our society. We therefore ask you: Why did you claim that a breakdown by user group in the area of certain executive positions is not possible, although this was possible three months before? Maybe you've just been wrong? Has Are you deliberately suppressing this information out of negligence or even deliberately? I'd like to ask you that. Or is the fear of the coalition, the fear of the voters already so great that you neglect your information obligation? Mrs. Federal Minister, just explain to us. Your reasons for this, in my opinion, are negligently inaccurate in answer to a specific question. High house! This is not all, however, because although you, Mrs Minister, are making it difficult for Parliament and the population, you can at least compare the overall levels of staff in the September and December 2004 budgets. But the truth comes to light! If you count everything together, ladies and gentlemen, for example, in the area of the Gendarmerie there is still a staff stand of 14,707 in September 2004, in December only one out of 13,769, which results in a turn of nearly 1,000 officials! I don't think that's exactly what you're asking for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Now tell me how you lost 1,000 officials in three months. That's a terrible thing! Either you only tell shame in your inquiries, or it's true that you could lose 1,000 officials in three months. [[Abg. Big Truck: Or you won't come with me! That's the third variant!]] In view of these figures, Mr President, I understand, of course, that you are doing everything so that you cannot compare the two staff levels, because otherwise all this would become apparent and clear. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Weak as always, the Parnigoni! Didn't you think of anything wrong?]] If this has happened ignorantly, this would not make things any better, Mrs. Federal Minister, then you really would have to assume that you have no idea how many officials are actually working in your ministry, because you can't have any data at all, as you give in your request. However, this would truly be a bankruptcy statement of your policy, because every company in the private sector, which is certain, would go bankrupt in record time if the company manager did not even know how many people work for him. [[Abg. Großruck: In bankruptcy you have experience! You know what you're doing at the bankruptcy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian company “executive” creates security, and it must be guaranteed that it must be secured, that is firm, even under a government in which the worm is. [[Abg. Grossruck: (on the Abg. May. He's sitting over with you.]] Mrs Bundesminister, give Parliament all due care on such important questions. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're not a zoologist!]] High house! This executive has deserved it to get reasonable working conditions for her difficult job. In fact, this coalition of chair glues takes on all the alert signs – such as the devastating criminal statistics – in spite of annual staff cuts. In the Federal Police Directorate Vienna alone, you have a lot to offer to the officials. At present 100 000 to 120 000 overtimes per month are required. This is not only at the expense of the staff's substance, it is at the expense of quality. And you can't expect top performances from a policeman who is often in service for up to 36 hours, all the time without wear and tear. Mrs Bundesminister, give the executive what she needs, especially sufficient staff! We hope that in the course of your term of office, Mrs Bundesminister, you will be able to gain more insight into this! We will then be able to cooperate at any time when it comes to raising the safety standard in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't tell me a shame! You don't even know what cooperation is!]] But we need correct information and above all fair parliamentary treatment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12833	Mrs Prokop, Federal Minister, spoke. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12855	Mr President. High house! I shall try to address this question as intensively as possible and to answer the questions as precisely as possible. I would also like to make it clear immediately that the request response from autumn and now in February – right in many points – were adapted to the date of the deadline. At the time, however, we were in the detailed staff planning for “Team 04” for the transformation, and so much, especially at the services, could not be prepared in a serious way again. The stand from September is largely true, but not in detail. The administrative burden of such a response is enormous, and I believe that if the one request comes in September, the next one in December, we will be very precise and detailed after the completion of the "Team 04" changes to the National Council. There are currently a few thousand service posts in tender. I can mention the current number, which is very up-to-date because of the date of the 1. March is. On this day we had 22 406 executive officers in executive foreign service in all security departments, federal police departments, state army commanders, foreign offices of the Federal Criminal Office and the Eko Cobra. At the same time, 1 898 executive staff staff members were employed in the internal service and internal administration. On the 1st day of the year. In comparison, in January 2000, 21 901 executive officials were employed in the executive office and 3,400 officials were employed in the staff. – The comparison of these two figures alone shows that today there are more executive officials in the field. Thanks to the reduction of double-tracks and more slimming and efficient management structures, it is possible to achieve this increase in the external service presence by more than 500 people. – I compare 2000 with 2005. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] High house! In spite of the high targets and establishment plans, this quota was made possible through reforms from 2001 to 2004. The implementation of the “Team 04” project will continue this trend. This means, for example, that of 45 different command structures, there will be only more than nine national police commanders with a noticeable number of profits to officials who can then directly perform on the streets and on-site security police duties. In addition, it is a huge success that in recent years a total of 1,154 officials from the customs guard have been integrated and trained in the departments. – These statements could still be continued in many forms, but the corresponding figures are contained in detail in the first and second answers. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The success of the path is noticeable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I only mention the successes of the months of February and March in criminal statistics: We see that crime has fallen by 5 percent throughout Austria in February. The strong decline in Vienna alone by 8.6 percent is enormously important. The same trend is already continuing in the raw data for March. The education rate increases by 1.5 percent. These are also services provided by the executive on site! In this context, it is also essential to develop tailor-made regional security concepts, which also require intensive international cooperation, which is why the occupations also need to be very decisively designed. I believe that we can not only secure the standard with our staff, with our know-how and with the commitment of our officials, but can actually expand it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12931	The speaking time of all the speakers who are now speaking is 5 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Kößl. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12955	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni's remarks were of course clear. [[Abg. Friend: As always!]] I believe that it would be essential, particularly in the field of safety, to discuss very objectively, of course, we can also discuss the personnel situation in the executive sector. Yes, there have been savings in the executive sector on and on itself over the last five years, because various restructurings have been carried out in the executive area and in the interior. – Due to the restructuring in the interior resort, the Gendarmerie central command disappeared, the reporting and discovery in the police area were deleted, and the outsourcing of the passport and many other changes were made. This is why there have been savings in the management of staff. But in the operational field, where there is a lot of work, there has been an additional plus in the field of civil servants, namely – the Minister has said it exactly – of 500 people. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This point is also referred to again and again, and I am therefore saying: There is also a lack of a systemized planning site in the merger of the Gendarmerie services, but it has been divided into the neighbouring departments. What is the performance of SPÖ in the personnel of the executive? – Remember: In December 2003, it was decided here at a meeting that there should be €36 million more for the interior and 150 additional officials. [[Abg. May. Worm: That was a herb and beet proposal!]] – The SPÖ voted against! At the next budget, the 2005 budget, the highest budget in the field, there were 163 million € more and 500 additional officials. – The SPÖ voted against! Especially in this area the credibility of the SPÖ has been completely lost! You have to say that in all clarity and sharpness! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Estimated Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we missing in the Gendarmerie and Police Departments executive officers? – Unfortunately, God is now a former Minister of the Interior One not here, he was the one who deleted the school plans in 1996. And if we now have 947 officials in basic training and in addition officials in supplementary training, there are well over 1,000 officials in training, and these officials are missing from the police and the Gendarmerie departments! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] I beg you, Anton Gaál, you can't deny that these plans have been deleted by your Minister of the Interior! And, of course, it is now the case that every occupied school plan agency causes fewer officials to be employed. That is the situation we are facing, and that is why at the last meeting of the Budgetary Overrun Act of this Staff Pool was created to enable us to receive contract staff so that we can get personnel truth outside the staff. – This is the current situation in the executive field. I would like to make one more point: Mayor Häupl has always called for 1,000 officials in Vienna. Last week, he first agreed at a press conference that there are now more people on the streets and that he is distanced from the call for 1,000 officials. - That's the situation! This is the situation in the interior! Finally, I would like to stress: The staff is used where it is necessary, where work is concerned. So it will be after the merging of the wakes. That's the line. Minister! Please continue this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13021	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. He also speaks to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13049	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Rädler, I have been waiting for your call. They talked about plug-out. – I admit: Between October and December, I entered the Ministry of the Interior and pulled the plug out. [[Abg. Großruck: The predecessors have pulled the plug out!]] The answer to the question is the difference between October and December. That's the cracking point for us, as it were. I say that quite honestly, Mrs. Minister. You've got a confidence advance from us. [[Abg. Großruck: This has a history!]] We are now talking about the request answer in 2004! Mrs Minister, you have received a advance of confidence from us, and there there and there have also been constructive discussions on many issues, such as asylum law. I'm with my previous speaker when he says: Security issues should be dealt with in a cross-party manner; and They will also find opportunities for cooperation with us. – But the process of answering the question you have now chosen is not very trusting, I say quite openly! After all, if you have designed the answer to the question a few months ago different from now, I ask myself: Do not know in which grade Your officials are? You can't tell me that you were able to split up in September, at which salary levels your officials are, but you can't do it now! This does not give a good light to your office and to the overall government work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say quite frankly to you: I do not think that the reason for this is restructuring, but I think the reason is simply that you want to hide here! They had, Mr Parnigoni has already mentioned it, less than 1,000 officials during this period. In 21 months it was net by 3,000 executive officials less. [[Abg. Großruck: How much is the gross?]] And when you talk to your local officials, they say behind the hand or even openly that it is not true that there are now more officials on the ground. As a result of your savings measures, due to the reduction of 3,000 employees, there are now fewer officials on the ground, and this has been the case since 2000! – Actually, it is a step-by-step of history that a middle-right government in the security field cannot take measures to increase security in Austria! If you look at the crime statistics, you can see that there was a crime rate of 450 000 crimes among social democratic ministers. Now we have over 700 000 crimes! At that time we had a 51 per cent education rate, now the average is 36 per cent to 37 per cent, in some federal states below 30 per cent! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] And that under one - so far - black and blue government; I do not know which one will now be the second color! The sheath is increasingly dispersing, and it will become even worse, because the measures you have taken in the area of the compounding of the guards are now leading officials to focus more on their personal careers than on the fight against crime in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Did you not hear what Mrs. Minister said? It's getting better and not worse!]] There are now 5 000 new invitations to tender on the tops of the National Police Commanders, which are now being broken down to the second, third and fourth levels, and this will, of course, not result in an improvement in security in Austria, but in the fact that security is at a level that is really frightening! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Finally, I would like to make a quite conciliatory offer: You will have us further as a partner! I would just like you to take into account the circumstances in Parliament, for example, by answering questions in such a way that they can also be used for parliamentary work, which does not hide, but... [[Abg. Amon: If you don't know, you can't do anything!]] I think I know myself better than you do, Mr President. From these figures, it is even possible to find out that there are 1 000 officials in Austria in three months. [[Abg. Murauer: Only you believe that!]] That's the fact that's left under the line, you can't even talk about it through your calls. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka.]] We are ready for a partnership. However, we expect such a course of action to be followed by proper parliamentary treatment. – In answer to this question, that was not the case at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13179	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Speaking time 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13200	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, Mr Darabos: The SPÖ is developing problems in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, where there are no problems at all. But I understand that, because the SPÖ is upset that it can no longer carry out its mail chess as it used to be! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's exactly how it is!]] You are afraid of the call for these hundreds of posts after the merger of police and Gendarmerie! But you're a little right, ladies and gentlemen, that there won't be a black post chess after the red: That's what we're going to do! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] And we hope to have your understanding, Mrs Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The staff policy in the field of the Ministry of the Interior is a consequence of the SPÖ's financial and personnel policy. You can't pass that! This government had to take over this heritage and now makes the most of what it has to do with it. This government has decided to take a strong step forward in reform, namely to unite the Gendarmerie and the police in order to save many administrative posts. – I understand for you, because these were SPÖ posts so far, and now some will fall away! That's why your outrage is in place, but I don't understand it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These staff savings are also necessary in the area of the interior. We have a total budget situation that we have to face. Tell me where you want to get the money from! Where do you want to save if you want to spend money here? – Speaking You are not now taken by the interceptors, because you have already played them in the development aid policy and in the transport policy. Sage Give us the following: Do you want to reduce pensions, or do you want to save on education policy to be able to fatten these areas? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Their excuse is far-reaching and totally unwarranted! The fight against crime is also dealt with quite properly in the context of these austerity measures, in which the Federal Government is forced to implement them. The education rate has increased from January 2005 to February 2005. We basically have an education rate of around 40 percent. I admit that 100 percent are also a goal of free policy, but we can't be enchanted as you can't! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of combating crime cannot be solved alone by more personnel. Instead, intelligent framework conditions are also to be created, and the government is also starting to do so, for example in the Asylum Act. We cannot deny that about two thirds of the prisoners are foreigners in Austria. That means: The police's clientele consists essentially of two thirds of foreigners, and we have to take appropriate measures within the framework of a new consistent asylum legislation, to which we cordially invite you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In parallel, border protection must also be ensured to prevent these illegal immigration flows. I am not just talking about schinasyl seekers or economic refugees, but rather about the illegal crossing of organized gangs that we are dealing with in the field of crime control. Ladies and gentlemen! In essence, this Federal Government sets out a wide range of measures to be successful in the fight against crime. This federal government is taking the right steps. Your fears, my Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of your SPÖ mail chess are completely wrong in place.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13289	Mr Pilz spoke at the end of this debate. He's got 5 minutes, too. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13310	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would ask you to clarify this in the presidency: The Federal Minister has explained in her reply something which is unusual and which we should follow, namely that you have not put figures in the answer to the question or perhaps even taken wrong figures, because the administrative burden to produce correct figures would have been too great. [[Abg. Wittauer: The truth has said it!]] [[Abg. Großruck: She didn't say that!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I hope that this is a misunderstanding, but the reference to the excessive administrative burden, which has not made it possible to answer a parliamentary question properly, was very clear. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Would you have been careful!]] I now turn personally to you, Mr President, and urge you to clarify whether this can be the procedure of a member of the government towards a requesting Member and his colleagues: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Once again don't watch, but open your mouth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Rarely there, but when he's there, he says something wrong!]] I do not even ask whether I can answer it later, I do not even ask whether the Member or Parliament would agree if I would answer the questions a little later with less administrative burden, but I simply take the right not to reply or wrong and then refer to the administrative burden. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to point out that although you are also committed to the idea of sparing, above all to Austrian laws, the Rules of Procedure are also a law. [[Abg. Grossruck: She doesn't need a mushroom to know that!]] I would also like to ask you to comply with the legal provisions when the opposition is being requested. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: She doesn't need a mushroom to know that!]] Secondly, I know from the committee work that Mr Parnigoni is a reliable computer. It is indeed to be feared that not only statistically officials and officials have disappeared. Now Members of the Government Party can say: In times when whole parties disappear, that may be nothing special. In the interests of Austrian security, however, it would be very good if not only we MEPs, but also all the people who are interested in it know how many of what qualified people are serving in the security executive and in the authority. What is the condition that the Minister cannot state exactly how many people are currently working in the Ministry of the Interior in what function and with what qualifications? – In the context of a budget debate, this is a revelation of the rather worse variety. [[Abg. Kößl: Come back to the subject!]] [[Abg. Kößl: The best thing is the final word of yours!]] I would like to make another point: These figures, which are no longer in accordance with requests on request, are not in line with the numbers of the electorate in the election elections. That's the third number that doesn't match the others. It is interesting to note that more and more officials are entitled to vote in the personnel representation elections than is the case in the street, according to the Minister of Interior. [[Abg. Bullshit! That's really a fool!]] What happened? Has the Minister of the Interior deprived individual officials on the streets of the right to vote in the personnel representation? Or what happened? Do officials and officials not even have the right to vote? – These are questions we should consider. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's very poor!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: No one reckoned that! The Republic is not interested!]] A further remark, Mrs Bundesminister: There are obviously false figures in other areas too. In the field of telephone surveillance, the figures of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the telephone providers are simple and simply not consistent and differ up to the factor 4. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of this House! We will have to talk again in the Committee on the Interior and also in plenary about how we can ensure – hopefully with the support of Mrs Minister – that we finally come to serious figures on the activities in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Poor!]] Last comment: I would ask you to clarify what Mr Bösch's cryptic sentence means: If there is a red or black risk of shifts in the personnel sector, I quote, we liberals will ensure that nothing happens here. What kind of freeman does he mean? – There are no liberal national councillors or just one in my knowledge. [[Abg. Großruck: What does this have to do with the request answer?]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I take note of the fact that Mrs Rosenkranz's...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13541	Mr President, you are at the end of your speaking time. One final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13556	I note that it may be a little too little that Mrs Rosenkranz should take over this titanic task. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not an end!]] The green club would do it instead. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13594	Mr Pilz, you have referred to the question raised by Mrs Bundesminister. I remember this in such a way that it referred to the great administrative burden in the answers to the questions and that, as a result of the transitions, it is difficult to answer one question or another. I have already prompted the Stenographical Protocol to be drawn up, and I will then give the Assembly some information about it. Thank you. We are at the end of this exciting debate. [[15:36:45]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13621	We are continuing the budget debate. The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. She's talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13669	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In fact, an exciting debate is continuing. Much has already been said about the research budget. I just remember that the research promotion society is newly established, capable of working well, including the commitment to long-term security of research policy and expenditure. I now look at colleague Sburny and join in her idea of her desire – I think that makes the whole House – to evaluate how far the new structures with regard to the National Foundation's offensive programmes and also the FFG bear fruit and show corresponding effects. This will certainly be done by this government, and we also have to pay attention to it from the parliamentary side. The FWF is evaluated. The results are also known to you: Use of interdisciplinary cooperations, use and build networks, create critical masses. In this regard, this is a good witness on which to build well and with which to continue. Similarly, we have heard from members of the government, it is in the Lisbon objective. The research objective remains the goal beyond the legislative period and will continue to be pursued until the year 2010 in view of the end of the 2006 legislative period. I think we can make this confession from here. I invite all of you to do so in your contributions, in so far as it is possible for us to make the legislation and the financial laws at all, beyond the legislative period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is still important to me, ladies and gentlemen, is to keep an eye on the new challenges on the European side as well. This certainly includes the idea of President Barroso to set up such a thing as Centers of Excellence – whether they are called University of Excellence, Institute of Excellence or otherwise. We should be anxiously discussing what the meaning and feasibility are from the European and the Austrian perspective. And we should also look at all those who evaluate as something intellectually inappropriate and inadequate, who fear and work on the removal of misunderstandings. Finally, I say something in the direction of my colleague Green Forest, who is listening from a distance: He likes to conclude research debates with images, with language pictures, with mental comparisons. I like to close my contribution with a picture from the hospital; he loves it very much. Years ago, the patient came to the hospital as a permanent, barely viable, unsupervised patient. After calling up a new medical team, after setting up a new therapy and involving international experts, a viable, life-long and open-minded man has recently left this hospital, and he is looking for international partners, which I support very much. With the 2006 budget, we can accompany him politically in this search. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13719	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. His speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13740	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We will return to the transport debate and also to the Sem- Mering tunnel back. The new project is technically a third longer and a third more expensive, but we still welcome it because we are in favour of a modern transport policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The planning time will take three to four years, the construction time around 15 years. It is to be feared, ladies and gentlemen, that in the meantime we will be overtaken by traffic, because then there will be the axis Berlin – Prague – Budapest – Trieste, but that is the risk for every project. The new project is also to be considered party-politically. The new project is also an attempt to solve the Gordische ÖVP node internally. We all know that, I don't need to repeat that. Of course, Mr Pröll has a certain position, but then a new project was presented. And that's what many have looked through. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] I now quote from the “Kurier ” of the 8th century. March; that's not long ago. The title is: Pröll is holding back in the replanning. And by the way, it says: Cheers with the bulls. - Cheers at the steirs! – Chief of State Pröll says that the old project has now been stamped. For the time being, there was no construction project on the table. A new project would like to re-examine Lower Austria only if it is presented. At present, therefore, neither a positive nor a negative assessment can be made. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the wrong game of the ÖVP in connection with the Semmering Tunnel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] First it is said that the old project is broken, we make a new one, then the new project comes back into the planning phase, and then you can say again that the water is flowing out of the mountain, we have to plan again. Then you have overruled the project until the project sleeps pretty slowly. I believe that this should be the case, in particular, of the Styrian Members of the ÖVP: The Semmering Tunnel project is not supposed to be a campaign-gag, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13806	Mr Grillitsch has the floor. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13828	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already had the opportunity to point out the sustainability of this federal government's economic location in the morning with regard to the agricultural sector, and now I am doing so in the area of infrastructure. I really believe that the figures of this federal government can be seen. While a total of € 20.5 billion has been spent by your government between the years 1985 and 1999, Mr. Herb, i.e. in 15 years, will be planned for the period between 2000 and 2014 by the Federal Government of Germany of € 33.3 billion. In 15 years, this is about saying and writing 62 percent more resources for the infrastructure in Austria. I would like to thank you very much for this, because, of course, this has enormous consequences, especially for rural areas and for the economic location, for example, in my home region. In this context, I would like to refer, for example, to broadband promotion. This very positive measure should be provided for €100 million by 2007 so that rural areas become an attractive economic location so that the world enters the village so that information and knowledge can be quickly exchanged. In the road transport sector, especially in the route Joudelenburg and Klagenfurt, 500 to 600 million € will be invested in the coming years. This prevents four people from losing their lives on the street every year, and that is also a positive step. Mr Marizzi, now on the “false game” concerning Semmering Tunnel: You know exactly who in 1989, when Badei's Minister of Transport was, prevented the Semmering Tunnel project. You know that very well. – Only so much for the “false game”. That is why I am now making the following request, which I ask you to put to the heart! – to agree. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now we will see who is playing the wrong game with the people in the regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13887	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Grillitsch's motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Wittauer, Mr Miedl, Mr Miedl, Mr President, on ensuring the implementation of the Semmering basic tunnel, is sufficiently supported, is under negotiation and will be voted on at the end of this budget chapter. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13947	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13968	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Grillish, wrong: Not the world is coming to the village, but in your politics people are being driven out of the village into the world! [[Abg. Grill: Who's wrong?]] That's it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: Do you not understand what broadband promotion is...?]] On your application and project for 2007: I hope you're not in this government anymore in 2007, and I'm almost convinced of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: You're not here anymore!]] The budget for the Transport chapter reflects the failure of your missing policy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. More and more out-of-budget debt is accumulating in Austria, such as the ÖBB. Mr Vice-Chancellor, on any questions raised by the members of the opposition, cannot always be clear that he has nothing to do with it. He is very likely to be responsible for the accumulation of these debts. Transport policy measures against permanent congestion, the relief of main routes and the improvement of the attractiveness of public transport Local transport is completely lacking – to the detriment of Austria's economic location. As an economic location, Austria simply needs a well-functioning public transport network. Unfortunately, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Vice-Chancellor, have broken this up, and you are also driving ÖBB to ruin financially – with the support of Mr Finanzminister. They drive the company ÖBB into an even greater debt trap and thus destroy jobs. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] You have to be responsible for saving railway lines in rural regions and villages, and you know that exactly, Mr Grillitsch! These lines will be stopped! And who suffers? – The Pendlers. And why are there no measures and initiatives for commuters? – At least nothing can be found in the 2006 budget. Six times since 2000, there have been tariff increases in the ÖBB. It's thanks to you! In part, the increases amounted to up to 40 percent, which each donor and every donor has to pay from their own pocket. One thing is certain, Mr State Secretary: Pendles are not leisure activities. Remember that and finally make politics for the people! Pendlers must be mobile, and this simply includes a public transport network, include public transport, which they bring to their workplace and secure their existence there. And this also means that you offer people reasonable prices for this public transport network. Finally, do something in the sense of the Austrians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14054	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14075	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Yes, it flows a lot of money into road and rail traffic, and that's good. That's what we've heard today. In Salzburg, too, the chapter Transport has provided some impulses. With the active support of the Federal Republic of Wilfried Haslauer, the contract for the Pinzgaubahn has been a practical one, particularly in public passenger transport. To set an example of participation and responsibility for the countries towards the Federation and to secure this Treaty for ten years. This shows that commitment is also possible from the countries and leads to success. € 6 million for the promotion of the Pinzgau transport service in the next ten years is a success that can be seen and that shows that intensive cooperation between the federal government and countries is worth it. 80 percent of these funds, which are so important for maintaining infrastructure in rural areas in particular, come from the Federal Ministry. Countries have the power to make real demonstration projects out of their projects, which are also available in the 2006 budget. The will to cooperate by the Federal Government is also present here. In 2006 we will receive over €3 million for the transport network in Salzburg. Over €30 billion will be invested in rail and road for the period 2000 to 2010. Speaking of the future: We in Salzburg need a perfect infrastructure to carry out the 2014 Olympic Games. We also hope here for the support of the Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14120	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14142	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Haubner, the statement in the last paragraph of your speech that it is important to expand the infrastructure for the Olympiad in Salzburg, I can only underline, and I can promise you to do everything and to take part in it. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use the remaining speaking time to appeal to you on an appeal to Minister for Transport Gorbach. The ÖVP has already announced a change of opinion here, namely: away from the 160 km/h on the road, away from 160 km/h on the West motorway. I am a privileged driver – Parliament has found me that the car is the cheapest car. So I spend a lot of time on this West motorway, even on those parts that are already extended and three-track driveable. Unimaginable to go through here with 160! I mean, We guarantee that you can drive 130! Let's see that the trucks are disciplined on the roads accordingly! Then we have much more opportunities to reach our goal more quickly. It is just important to me to ensure that it does not come to the many accidents to which it would be safe in this context. Even if it sounds good in the populist sense: 160 – free ride for free citizens!, I say: Let us do away with this plague, ladies and gentlemen. Let us take care of our own responsibility together and fight for the speed of 160! Let's see that we can drive 130 km/h! Money can be used as well. I mean, for example, the noise walls on the West motorway, which are not only located where real villages can be protected, but also sometimes only shield one farm over 2 or 3 kilometres. Here you have to look at how you can better distribute this, then we are also able to raise the money we need in order to ensure road safety. But let us, in particular, stop dreaming of making small political money with 160 km/h. This threatens road users, and this is ultimately expensive.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14187	Mr Doppler is now speaking for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14208	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A school wisdom says: A good state is recognized in good ways and in good schools. And in this budget debate you can actually assume that this is good. For the infrastructure – listen, colleague! – EUR 11.1 billion was spent between 1993 and 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What's good?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: After what?]] Since this government works, 17.7 billion have been spent. This is an increase of 60 percent, ladies and gentlemen. These additional benefits lead to good supply and good transport conditions for the whole of the state, even in the rural area. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ is calling for 1.3 billion more for rail infrastructure and 4 billion more for road and rail development without saying where the money is to come from. I would just like to answer this with a statement from Franz Etzel: The state is not “a cow fed in heaven and being milked on earth. ” - You should remember that here. There are also great services for commuters and for the time-card drivers. 25 percent are provided as a self-cover, and the rest is covered by public service. One of the biggest projects of the future, the Semmering Base Tunnel, is under attack. Since 8. March of this year, after a conversation with German Chancellors, Vice-Chancellors and the heads of state Pröll and Klasnic, is the Semmering Base Tunnel project on rail. There is agreement on the implementation of the project and it will be implemented without delay. For the project development, the ÖBB framework plan will be increased by €100 million. The Länder of Styria and Lower Austria will implement the Semmering-Base Tunnel project in a constructive cooperation and the Ministers for Transport and Finance will make the funds available. [[Abg. Dr. One: Over the next 100 years!]] We stand for the Semmering Base Tunnel. What's the SPÖ doing? – Collaborator Herbs, who is not in the hall now, always show newspapers around. ==References====External links== March 2005 in the “Small Newspaper” is to read that the SPÖ Mayor of Mürzzuschlag says: “We’ll defend ourselves!” and that’s what he means by the Semmering Base Tunnel. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this is that probably the station of Mürzzuschlag needs to get a little crazy. – This is the socialistally narrowed thinking between two local panels, a thinking without a future perspective. Ladies and gentlemen! I heard colleague Binder, I heard colleagues Marizzi, I heard colleagues from herbs. Everyone speaks to the Semmering base tunnel, only: No one does anything for it. Everyone has a different opinion. I can tell you: The Semmering tunnel can't be so big that the SPÖ zigzag course takes place in it! In this sense a warm thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14285	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. 3 minutes welcome. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14306	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Those who delay construction for 15 years should not blame others, ladies and gentlemen, for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you're talking about traffic connections, I recommend: Go to Niederösterreich, to Hohenau! While there is a monument on the occasion of the accession of ten other EU countries to the European Union, if you look at the road link directly to this place, you have to find that it is far from being a future project, rather it is a monument to the past. You could change that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Vice-Chancellor is not present. He has recently meant that the first level of the Bundesbahn becomes slimmer. It has so far included 15 people – the first level; the Secretary of State certainly knows this very precisely and perhaps even better than I do. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: He is the author!]] 15 so far – now we have a multiple of it! And it is already the question of why, for example, the person responsible for real estate today deserves more than the former Director-General of the Bundesbahn. That would also be questionable, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: That's not true!]] But I actually went to the speaker's desk to bring in a different subject, namely: I believe that as well as road, rail and air transport, the telecommunications infrastructure is also a very important project and one of the essential prerequisites for a future solution to the economic and workplace problem in our country. We should have in mind that the World Economic Forum calls Austria in the international context, compared with the most important industrialized countries, as being on the spot. However, much more dramatic is my opinion that in the technology ranking, in the IT ranking Austria for the second time in a row, Mr. Secretary-General – for the second time in a row! – falls back. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner]] Broadband – I just mention one example –: Here are some Members who use their laptops. We've got state-of-the-art broadband here. But what we do not have in Austria is a master plan, as we can also introduce broadband in remote regions. [[Abg. Parnigoni: For example in the Waldviertel!]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: federal broadband initiative!]] I am therefore glad that we agreed on it across all party borders, on 1st. In June, a debate was held with the Minister responsible on how to improve the framework conditions. We don't have a master plan on broadband, we don't have coordination of broadband matters, and I'm glad that an ARGE has formed that requires broadband operators to have a framework. As a parliamentarian, we can promote these conditions, and I expect the Minister responsible to have him on 1st. In June, there were also activities to be carried out. Today, because research has been addressed by Mr Mainoni's Secretary of State, I should like to remind you that you are not going to say again: Yes, opposition criticism! –: ==References====External links==* Official website Research and development framework programme notes that in Austria, on the path to the Lisbon research target, 3 percent of GDP is missing from €100 million per year. – Not opposition criticism, but a criticism of those who have to carry out research accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is well known, Mr President. ...!]] See the broadband communications network as an important concern! Let's work on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14420	Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous question, Mr Pilz, the honourable Member, in referring to the large administrative burden, said that it would have rejected the answer to one question or another. I have let the minutes be drawn up and I shall put it to the political groups. The Minister said: “I would also like to make it clear immediately that the request response from autumn and now in February – right in many points – were adapted to the date of the deadline. At the time, however, we were in the detailed staff planning for “Team 04” for the transformation, and so much, especially at the services, could not be prepared in a serious way again. The stand from September is largely true, but not in detail. The administrative burden of such a response is enormous, and I believe that if the one request comes in September, the next one in December, we will be happy to reply to the National Council again after the finalisation of the "Team 04" changes and will be detailed in detail. I therefore believe that this has been done correctly, and the political groups receive it. Thank you. Next Rädler... – Next speaker is Mr Radler. His speaking time is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14493	Mr President. Nomen est omen! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Mr Vergestnich has, unfortunately, gone away. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I assume so. Is he here? – I have the glasses; I will use them. [[Call the SPÖ:No glasses!]] Mr President, if you were more on the road in Lower Austria, in the establishments, then you would know: Not Hohenau – but broadband technology! In this regard, Lower Austria has launched a phase in which support is available in the form of promotion, but especially for companies in the most remote areas of Lower Austria, the offensive for broadband. That's, I think, exemplary! One cannot make the covenant responsible for all tasks! - That's it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are talking today about the budget for transport. I believe that, especially for the East of Lower Austria, due to the increased volume of transport, due to the EU's enlargement, there is no doubt a need for further investment, but with €1.7 billion in revenue from vignette and toll and 500 million that are mainly installed in the southern Lower Austria, we will meet these requirements. Of course, I am particularly pleased that the Pottendorfer line is being expanded, an important infrastructure connection for our economy, for the whole region. But far more important is the Semmering Base Tunnel, which has already been addressed several times today, an economic project for the whole of the Styria region, for Upper Austria, but also for Lower Austria. And if the position was vehemently expressed here by the left half of the empire that there is a barrier in Lower Austria, then I would now say to Mr Puswald the the following, and also Mr Herbs, who, I believe, has gone out of the hall – perhaps meet You're in the middle: There you will see a gentleman who now looks through his glasses and already knows what it is about, Mr Bauer, who, when the nature conservation authority introduced the first measures concerning the Semmering base tunnel, was a nature conservation representative in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Look at this! Look here!]] [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schöls: How did Fritz mean?]] At first, he applauded when he was talking about the preventers. This is where the Preventers sit! – Were those you meant, Mr President? [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] That's it. – I can conclude by saying: For us in the eastern region, for Lower Austria, it is important that of these around €7.1 billion, which are provided for in the ÖBB framework plan for the rail sector, a huge sum, namely 1.8 billion, is invested for the infrastructure for our Lower Austria by 2010 for our region! That is the successful transport policy of this Federal Government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14580	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14601	Mr President. Mr State Secretary of the Black Group! – The oranges have already removed themselves from the government bank in the meantime, probably in a wise perspective, and they are no longer taking part. Equally important for a location is, of course, the research and development, the potential for innovation, in addition to the infrastructure. Both are important, and there have not been such bad approaches lately. The Research and Technology Development Council or the Research Funding Society, these were good developments, but you have brought it back into implementation, that it will also be an organisational warp and that it will not be fully effective for Austrian research and development. You've already fucked that up. [[Abg. May. Regulator: “Saut”!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] – You fucked it up!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14628	We are not doing anything here in Parliament, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14646	They have watered it organizationally. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Mandak as well as call: But there is a difference]] The second point is the problem with the quota. They suddenly raised the research rate by 0.3 percentage points in the previous year, on the day of the reform dialogue. In the meantime, make sure that's the right thing! At the time, these were just assumptions, only surveys. A third point, which is far more important than the research rate, is how the funds are used. That's the central point! This is a networked policy, and I would like to remind you of two points: When you look at the project of Infineon in Villach, you have to say: This is really a highly interesting and research-intensive operation, but the results generated there by public funds will not be reinvested in this company, but it will be decided in Munich what the patents are used for. So we also need to ensure that we pay close attention to how the research results generated by public funds can also be communicated again in Austria. That, I think, could also be transferred to the example of Siemens and VA TECH: Here too, Austrian corporations are destroyed, the research results are transferred abroad and Austrian tax money is used for this purpose. [[Abg. May. Controller: Who Destroys?]] My appeal is therefore, ladies and gentlemen: Successful economic policy needs people who recognize the contexts that not only see the input page but also the output page. Otherwise, I don't see the prospects for Austria's economic location as so rosy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14700	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14722	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For me, as a representative of a peripheral region, there are two main problems in the area of transport: One is the accessibility of these regions, and the second problem concerns mobility within these regions or to the centres. As far as accessibility is concerned, it is clear to all of us that this accessibility is simply a location factor for the economy, but also essential for the commuters. It is also always shown in the population statistics that lack of accessibility means the loss of population and the loss of value added in the region. However, it is also important to improve infrastructure accordingly, especially in the remote regions, in the border regions, where for many years it has been abandoned, to establish an appropriate infrastructure in the area of the road, which is now being reclaimed, which has been neglected. I believe that the 2006 budget also provides for appropriate resources to increase and improve this accessibility for the peripheral regions. However, I must also draw attention to the fact that, for example, local and regional links are responsible for countries and that countries are required to ensure that, at the time when the Schengen borders are open, regional and local links are properly ensured. - That's about this area. The topic of mobility. I think it is essential to recognise that public transport in these regions is as necessary as it is in central areas. Not only does it bring value creation, it is simply necessary for business and life to work. Of course, this public transport must also be properly needs-oriented, customer-oriented. He must be at least competitive. And there's always the problem that there are very easy unprofitable routes and more profitable. I believe that not least this fact also plays a role when there are problems in privatisation. Locking up is, at least as far as public transport is concerned, just as little a solution as that one leaves everything as it is. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We need to look for real needs-oriented and flexible solutions here, and we also need communities and countries to do so. This cannot be done centrally by the federal government, but here you need to work together to find good new solutions. Of course, these good new solutions, which burden new local authorities, also need new funding systems, which is why it will also be necessary to consider changing the financial balance in this direction so that countries and municipalities can also provide these solutions accordingly. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I believe that all of us here together have a new major task ahead of us, but we must solve it for and in the interests of people in these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14773	The next speaker is Mr Leutner. His speaking time is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14794	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I looked at the infrastructure budget once again on the basis of the debate. And I think that for our debates here, the comparison of the 2005 and 2006 budget is first of all interesting: Infrastructural investment is falling both in the federal budget of €8 million and 6.9 percent compared to the previous year, as well as in particular – and then it becomes important – in the distributed companies with a minimum of € 212 million or 6.2 percent. I know that in the federal government, infrastructure investment is hardly of any importance, but it is a very large one for the distributed societies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] And when it comes to amounts over €2 billion, we have great concerns, especially in the trade unions. And since, ladies and gentlemen, it is not as important to me as infrastructure investment was in 1985 or in other years, but this reduction in infrastructure investment from 2005 to 2006 is crucial for jobs! – I just said that – look at the budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Control: Where is the decline?]] [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: Where should the decline be?]] [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: Yes, but where, in what area?]] We can clarify the figures that I would offer to you, Mr State Secretary, in particular with the experts of the interest groups. Then the debate would be productive. But I have other numbers: We have been stagnating real in Austria for years when investing in the rail infrastructure sector! Building investment has been declining in the country for a long time. In this context, a fact is particularly important: Investment in road construction has also fallen for the first time in a budget. But I offer you to explain these figures in the interests of the workers. [[Abg. May. Controllers: The ASFINAG numbers are not inside!]] Let's take a look at it! The last point, and it's important to me: R & D. State Secretary Mainoni has said that it is important to address all social groups in research policy. I cannot understand in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that in the research promotion society, the policy of the government of the ÖGB has simply been eliminated from strategic planning and that there are no social partners in the Science Fund at all. This is not the reorganisation of important research institutes, as we imagine them. That's correct. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us also take a positive lead in this consultative chapter!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14883	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14904	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mobility is a crucial competitive factor, but the daily congestion costs not only time and nerves, but also a lot of money. And traffic will unfortunately continue to rise. In the 15 years 1985 and 1999 a total of € 20.5 billion was invested in the federal high-level transport infrastructure. Between 2000 and 2014, about €33.3 billion of investment is now planned. This means that in this period about 62 percent more resources are allocated to the transport infrastructure than in the previous period, with the ratio between rail and road investments in both considered periods of time being around 60 to 40 for rail. The strategy must no longer be called “rail instead of road”, but must be called “rail and road”. A mix of intelligent solutions has the greatest chance of dealing with the projected enormously rising traffic volumes, as is the case in Lower Austria, where 28 000 park-and-ride parking spaces have been created in front of railway stations in recent years. In Austria, especially in Austria, we now need to re-establish those investments in the high-level road network that were necessary after the fall of the Iron Curtain. The rise in traffic of around 15 percent per year also means a tremendous opportunity for the domestic economy. Lower Austria exports to the former Eastern countries and has recorded a plus of 17 percent. Roads to our neighbouring countries in the north, east and southeast need to be reactivated, and some of them must be reactivated. Here I also see a special opportunity for the border region to experience the economy with cross-border infrastructure projects. The Fratres/Slavonice railway crossing project offers an opportunity to transport more than 200 000 tonnes of goods on the rail between Zwettl and Jihlava. The municipalities of the border region support the activities of our federal government in this cross-border infrastructure area with services of their own power worth €80 000 and thus show how important modern infrastructure is to people in the border region. Good transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for future design. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14950	Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14971	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about Mr Brinek's statement, which meant that the research patient was almost dead and has now been revived and will now, as it were, become more than a dead person. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's exactly what Mr Greenewald said!]] Mrs. Brinek! I believe that you yourself have not implemented your line of argument within the government in recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's obvious! That is not a question of persuasion, but of evidence!]] These missing 100 million € are necessary so that we can achieve your goal that you have set yourself at all. [[Abg. May. Regulator: We are good on the road!]] Today, Mainoni has appealed to us that the opposition groups would like to include the objectives of research policy in their electoral programmes, probably in the hope that they will then also be implemented by these present opposition parties. We can assure you that we will have to increase the research rate to 4 percent by 2010 in order to really be among the top riders in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Four?! Four?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Controller: Four?! Four?! But that's very ambitious! That's what we're hearing for the first time.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is necessary to make even more money available for these research and technology investments, because we also need to finance decentralized infrastructure requirements that have already been addressed today, such as broadband technologies, regional technologies, development centres, regional research institutions, in order to realize a truly decisive research location in Austria. That is why we are sure that today you will also give us the approval of our resolution, which also includes exactly what you, Mrs Brinek, and Mr Mainoni, are proposing and wishing. I am very optimistic that you will agree to our motion for a resolution today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15071	Next word: Mr Kurzbauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15092	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Gartlehner, you said that the Social Democrats have the goal of increasing the research and development rate from 3 to 4 percent by 2010. – Now my question: If these costs are already included in the economic programme of Mr Matznetter, or if the Then what about that? That would interest us very much. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are on our way, we have already taken this out of the debate today. Investment in innovation and technology is a total budget of €228 million, which is indeed investment for the future, and in particular sustainable investment. 5.3 billion € and 2.27 percent are a huge sum, and if we compare this quota with the EU average, which is 1.99%, then, I think, this is proof that this federal government has worked very well in the field of innovation and technology. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we reach this 3 percent, we also want to achieve a growth of the R & D ratio of 8.5 percent per anno. At a committee meeting, State Secretary Mainoni pointed out that he expected us to achieve this growth because we assume that in the next few years the economy will also grow accordingly. And if we look at the situation optimistically, then, I think, we will also achieve this goal. However, some support measures have also been put in the form of structural changes. I think with the establishment of the research promotion company, FFG, with 1. In September 2004 or in the reform of the FWF or, for example, with its own legal personality for the Research and Technology Development Council, also with 1. The necessary measures have been taken in September 2004, with the establishment of the National Foundation and the establishment of the House of Research. In part, it is also organisational measures that make us think that we are going to continue this successful path together in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15146	The next speaker is Mr Keck. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15168	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Technology and innovation are areas that our country has been committed to for decades. We have also celebrated great successes, and a good part of our prosperity builds on the fact that over the last 30 years we have been ready to invest in good education, in good research sites and in good ideas. However, the real budget item for research and innovation is also an external expression of a future-growing attitude for me. [[Abg. May. Control: Please! Better than among SPÖ ministers!]] – Listen, colleague, you will see it then! An area which is also heavily disadvantaged by these budget items is that of innovative transport research. This concerns economic aspects. Not least, the many petitions and citizens' initiatives that we regularly reach on this issue show that they are also a social concern and aspects of quality of life, such as noise and noise from the rails and all associated health damage caused by them. With appropriate support, for example more support in this budget, there would be much to be achieved in this area. For example, with the voestalpine rail in Donawitz, we have a world market leader in the country, who has already managed to lower rail noise by 4 to 5 decibels, all of which only with minimal product development. However, this could only be achieved through internal research. The State, which is the largest profiter of this innovation, participated in funding with almost 50 000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the simulation makes it clear that noise development in the rail could be reduced by another 4 to 6 decibels, it would only be wise to further research and invest more funds in this research. One could optimize the rail, continue working on the substructure, and develop more effective rail systems. At the end of all research, it could be said that in the case of a noise reduction of up to 12 decibels, one would even save the construction of miles of sineurous noise protection walls, which would serve not only the ear, but also the landscape picture. But the again missing research resources prevent any initiative in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! Their limited €30 million, which you want to invest in the next two years for noise protection measures in the area of rail, would be worth more, would you invest more in the research of the noise rail. This would only be a small bet with great effect, a bet, but to which one must be willing to make the appropriate means available. We from the SPÖ would be willing to carry this, it is as I fear, but not at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15207	Next speaker: Mr Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15229	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! High house! It is interesting that everyone interprets the numbers differently. Only, I think, numbers cannot be interpreted, and therefore one thing is quite certain: that never as much has been invested in the infrastructure, in the development of road and rail, as is the case now. If I see that between 1990 and 1994 a total of € 11.5 billion was invested and € 13.6 billion will be used for this area in the years from 2005 to 2009, I must say that is a huge sum. And the good thing for me is – and this is also true of the transport policy of this Federal Government – that €7.1 billion is invested in the expansion of rail, i.e. more in the expansion of rail than in the development of the road, saying that €6.5 billion is still being made available for the road sector. I believe that this is a good sign of committed environmental policy, which is a cross-sectional matter, and this also shows that we are contributing to getting closer to the Kyoto objective and are on the right track here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But if I look at the budget as a whole and highlight this area here, I would like to speak, as a representative from Lower Austria, from the southern Lower Austria, of course also to the undoubtedly large MedAustron project. It is also a good example of how, when federal government and country work together and go the right way together, very large projects, which one has been putting forward for years, can ultimately also be implemented. The MedAustron project is a quantum leap in the field of medicine, but also in the field of research and will undoubtedly take a very important step forward as a research location in Europe's concert. We are undoubtedly in demand in transport policy as a whole. The enlargement of the European Union by ten new Member States is an increase in traffic. This is a fast response, and I therefore also welcome the development plans in the eastern region, the S 1, the link between the southern motorway and the east motorway – the Schwechat section is finished – and the important transport measures related to the Pottendorfer line, which also concerns my district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15277	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15298	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! If innovation and technology policy are discussed, it is usually the industrial sector or the services that are close to industry. However, the use of state-of-the-art information technology has long been one of the most important sectors in the domestic economy, namely tourism and leisure. This sector, which covers tens of thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of employees in this country, is rightly expecting sustainable framework conditions in the field of information and communication technology. The fact is that online bookings are strongly in the trend. According to current estimates, about 5 percent of all tourist bookings are made online or by telephone – an essential field not only, but also for booming urban tourism. Many models are under construction here. Austria is even leading in some areas on the world market. In this respect, the results of the ARGE broadband study are to be taken seriously, according to which – I quote – Austria does not have a sufficient broadband strategy that harmonizes the achievement of quantitative and qualitative objectives by defining measures and budgets. - Quote. There is therefore a very serious deficit in this area. And once again this also shows in this field the urgent need for action and thus also the evident standstill of the Federal Government. We therefore support the basic objectives of the ARGE broadband in the interests of the very successful, highly technologicalised local tourism and leisure industry, which are highly underestimated in this area. The rapid global supply of broadband must also be a substantial part of tourism and tourism policy, and the Federal Government should finally fulfil its culprit in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15336	The next speaker is Mr Preineder. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15357	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I can draw attention to the issue of transport again. Transport policy is certainly one of the key pillars because it is a site policy. Transport policy decides on the location where we our apartments where we are building our homes, decide on how tourism is stored, but above all decide how the economy and businesses are developing, where they are located, where they are expanding and expanding. Mobility and transport are also a sign of the standard of living in our Republic, and this is why the Federal Government has set itself a clear objective, namely to invest more strongly in the development of our transport routes. Clearly, due to the opening in the East, there has also been a need for re-examination here. These countries also need to be more closely linked to us. The transport budget itself has an increase of €35.7 million. However, more clearly, those investments carried out by the ASFINAG are the ones carried out. There is comparatively a very strong plus in Lower Austria, almost a tenfold increase. In 1999, 44 million were invested in the street sector, with 405 million in 2005. Even more weighty is the area of infrastructure-rails. The large project Semmering-Basistunnel has already been addressed very often. I think it is good that there is an agreement here, and I believe that this agreement should be seen not only politically but also technically: The new project brings a quadruple transport performance, if it is actually carried out in a two-tube system, a significant increase in safety and, due to the lower altitude difference – the old track would have had a height difference of 300 metres – a lower environmental impact and, of course, lower transport costs. I think it is also important to invest in the expansion of park-and-drive facilities at motorways, so that we do not even have that traffic that does not have to arise on the roads, and that it is possible for everyone to leave their vehicle as well. In this respect, a project is planned by the ASFINAG and the state of Lower Austria. Investment in infrastructure secures our sites and creates work, and creating work means winning the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15405	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15427	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would also like to address the issue of support policy in the field of broadband technology, because I think that the expansion of this technology in many areas of our Republic is extremely poor, especially in rural areas. As the Upper Austrian, I am thinking specifically of the inner salt chamber, but I am also thinking of the mill district, where we have quite, quite massive difficulties. [[Abg. Grossruck: Never heard of the country's initiatives?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the expansion of this technology is essential and important for the population, for public institutions, for all communities, and especially for the economy. Unfortunately, in Austria only the 20 percent of the population, the communities have the opportunity to use this technology. Unfortunately, when we look at international statistics in this regard, we must note that Austria is slowly, but surely backward from a pioneering role in this area. We know that the situation in the federal states is very different. This is particularly evident if we look at the objectives in the nine federal states: There are certainly federal states that have set themselves the goal of enabling this technology to be available for up to 75 percent of the population by December 2006. I think, Mr State Secretary and the ladies and gentlemen of the Government, who are ultimately also responsible for this issue, it would be necessary for this objective to be formulated not only in some federal states but throughout the Republic. After all, the government should be the engine for Austria to again play the leading role in this area, especially in Europe. Due to many discussions with companies, with company owners, we know very well that the expansion of this technology in connection with the location selection is a very important question. Today's economy and, above all, modern administration require appropriate technology. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to have a fast connection to have constant access to this technology, and it should also be possible to transfer large amounts of data with a certain speed. And it's important that we have stable connections. I could mention some examples of companies, of companies from the Mühlviertel, from which one has to go to the agglomerations to Linz or to Hagenberg to the computer university in order to transport the data volumes of these companies accordingly. I therefore think that an extension of this technology is particularly important. Finally, Mr State Secretary, I would have two very specific questions. I have already put these questions in committee, but unfortunately they have not been answered. These two questions have also not been answered in writing, although the Minister has promised to do so in committee. The first question: I would be interested in what financial resources are available for the expansion of broadband technology for the entire Republic and, above all, for the individual federal states. As a Member of the Mühlviertel, I would be interested: What exactly are the development plans for our region, for the Mühlviertel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15469	The next speaker is Mr Böhm. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15491	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria has become an internationally attractive location for research through the successful innovation policy of the government. There has never been as good a conditions for research and development as under this government. We must further promote the development of the research site, bring even more research projects to Austria, but also give opportunities to small and medium-sized enterprises. The availability of reliable, inexpensive and high-quality networks is a crucial factor, as some colleagues have already stressed earlier, almost intergrouply. It is very nice to observe that this time, at least what the Internet and broadband technology. This can only serve the economy. In the field of electronic communications, broadband Internet connections are a strategic location factor. They offer huge potential for companies. Information and communication technologies with innovative services and applications have greatly influenced and improved daily life from general information procurement in the professional and private sectors to public administration. One consequence of this is that increasing volumes of data need to be transported more and more quickly. Policy has set itself the task of creating the framework conditions for fair competition, or at least reducing the competitive disadvantages currently existing – especially in rural areas. We are behind broadband technology. It is very important for the economy, and I am pleased that, with the Lisbon target, which is very hard to work on, the target for 2.5 percent R & D ratio is possible next year, so that we will achieve the target of 3 percent in 2010. Motorway, railway, data station in the service of the Austrian economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15539	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15560	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to comment on research. I know, Mr State Secretary, that you are not really the Secretary of State for Research, but I would still be interested, on the occasion of the discussion of this budget chapter, to raise a question. The European Commission has taken part in the preparation of the 7th Framework Programme. Framework programmes set out very clear guidelines and objectives, including the view that Europe should be made more attractive to the best scientists. Among other things, this is about making the role and place of women in science and research clearer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Moreover, we are currently in a situation where we are about to ratify the European Constitution, the Constitutional Treaty, and there are very, very clear objectives as regards equality between men and women, and also the commitment of the European Union to take appropriate measures. Why this history? – Because I have found, Secretary of State, that in a position paper of the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture for the 7. European Framework Programme also includes a chapter for women in science. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] [[Members stand together in small groups and talk to each other.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you're not interested...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15609	I would ask you not to turn your back on the speaker! - Ledolter, short farmer!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15627	I think the question of the role of women in research is not entirely irrelevant, and it would be nice if you would listen to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Ministry of Education has made a very specific four-point list on this issue, which we can quite agree with. What I now want to know about you, Mr State Secretary, who is sitting here instead of the Minister of Research and Technology: What to do Your ministry in this direction? What initiatives has your ministry taken to ensure that not only more technological research and transfer takes place in practice, but also that women are given the place they deserve in research in order to make European research really competitive? Is there any in your projects, in your proposals, any demand for quotas for female researchers at European level? Or are there at least some measures that women's quotas in research and technology in Austria are concerned with? Or have you undertaken to develop, at all events, a project with the Ministry of Education, which provides for research application scholarships that are not paid at all during the time you have to spend on getting European projects on the way? The question is: How are those who develop these research projects to live in the time when they develop these projects if they are not financed from home at the university? [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would just like to know: What to do Your place of business to strengthen the role of women in research, technology? Are there any measures here: yes or no? Let me now come to the second point of my speech. – Mr Wittauer and Mr Miedl, Member of Parliament, have tabled a request dealing with the Semmering Base Tunnel, and the government groups have also articulated the wish that there should be a nameable vote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What you're planning here is not serious. First of all, what you are planning here is that, after years of efforts, especially social-democratic transport ministers, you finally built the Semmering Base Tunnel – efforts that were counter-cared by the Lower Austrian head of state – now, shortly before a Supreme Court of Lower Austria had prevented that further sabotage, decided to withdraw the old project and make it completely new. [[Abg. May. Controller: SPÖ Council!]] A “wonderful” idea! This “wonderful” idea means that there will be no semmering base tunnel in the next 15 years, ladies and gentlemen, dear! And now you would like us to agree that there is no Semmering Base Tunnel for the next 15 years. – This is not a serious policy, ladies and gentlemen, and we cannot accept it. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I know what I'm talking about. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I didn't invent the project, but I've been working really hard for years to build it. I have repeatedly come across the dubious arguments of the country of Lower Austria; they have not, as a rule, kept before the Supreme Courts. And when you were finally faced with the situation in which you should at least have built the project in the old version, you withdrew it! Mr State Secretary, may you indicate where you are providing the money and when? You hope to realize this project structurally? Indeed, it is not disputed that – it will be clear, if you look at the situation of the Obersteiermark, the Mur-Mürz-Furche, the question of the accessibility of Graz by rail, with a seemingly bound transport – here comes a real disadvantage to certain regions within Austria through the years of delay of the Semmering Base Tunnel by the Lower Austrian ÖVP and the local head of state Pröll. I would like to know where the clear concept is, when this tunnel should be available, and if you can give me any indication that from today's point of view this will be the case earlier than in 15 years. What you have done here has taken 10 years, and now it will cost another 15 years. That means: 25 years at the expense of Styria and the Styrian economic development! Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot accept this, we will not accept it, and therefore we will certainly not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15701	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15722	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2005 and 2006 budget sets important routes in the field of transport for the future of Austria. The regions which have developed particularly strongly in recent years need, above all, economic support in the area of infrastructure. I would like to address two issues that concern me very strongly. First of all, I will go to the “Fürstenfelder Nachrichtstraße” project, which includes a link between the new EU country of Hungary and the south of our federal territory. I believe that this link has a beneficial effect on transport, jobs and economic settlements. The S7 is a very important roadway for the future, and we need this road. In order to create the conditions for a further successful economic development of the country, this Federal Government is committed to such investments. – Thank you very much for extending this road. As a result, transport safety has been given, job security can be guaranteed and, ultimately, we are also strengthening the domestic economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Not least, the EU accession of neighbouring countries to Hungary and Slovenia offers us a great opportunity. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Here there is a very gentle development, intelligent economic growth. We need an infrastructure connection to this European area. I would like to say one word as a Styrian Member: Freeway! Ladies and gentlemen! We need this Semmering base tunnel, this connection Koralm–Pyhrn, a necessary triangle between Vienna, Linz and Graz! [[Abg. Bures: Tell the Lord Pröll!]] The Styria is a modern, emerging state. We also want to become a show country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I would like to say one word about the “East Railway” extension route, which is included in the general transport plan and which is a very important train link between Graz and Hungary via St. Gotthard. Mr State Secretary! I also ask you not to lose sight of this extension! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15777	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15798	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Preßl! - Sorry: [[Call the ÖVP:Präßl!]] Praßl! . We agree that we need the Semmering Base Tunnel. But we would have used him a long time ago, at the time when a certain woman had Klasnic put on the Styria: Persecuted! [[Abg. Steibl: This is the woman's head of state! Not “a certain woman ”!]] But that would have been a few years ago. What you're doing now is so transparent, transparent and actually last-class that you don't need to talk about it! [[Call the ÖVP: “Last class”!]] [[Abg. May. Controller: A good project!]] Before the project, which has been running for a long time, can now be implemented by judicial sayings, you say: Let's just say it! Let's say it was nothing! In doing so, we take the main country woman of the Styria out of the drawing that she's been putting this through for a long time. On the other hand, we allow waiting times again until the Sankt-Nimmerleins tag to establish the connection. Say something else. You then: In the context of the budget debate, we are making a motion for a resolution, in which we put all this and in addition to that, that all those who have been responsible so far will be deprived of responsibility. That means: You never need to discuss again why so many millions in a hole – in the “Waltraud-Stolen” – have been suffocated and nothing has happened to it. – Do you want to join us? Then you still want to vote by name to prove for all these piglets...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15891	Mr President, please take back the word ‘fucking’!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15912	Mr President. I take back the word “snowings”, but it stirs me up a little if I have to experience such political angular movements – and that at the expense of the Styrian population! – Yes, I’m excited, but not as you mean, Willi Molterer! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I can't do that in Parliament! [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do I mean? What kind of imagination does he have?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Colleague The material backgrounds have already been very detailed. Mr. Herb will make another request, which will include exactly what the future is about, both for Lower Austria and for Styria and for Carinthia, in the railway sector. And I am very excited – really very excited – whether the great, home-loving Styrian ÖVP delegates will also give their name-named approval to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15970	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15991	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Caspar One and my previous speaker Heinz Gradwelt has said very clearly what the Semmering Base Tunnel is all about. I'd like to show you again. [[The speaker keeps the front page of an issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr. Colporteur, do you have the “curie” too?]] ‘Falsches Spiel um Semmeringtunnel’. Railway tunnel as an election force. - That's right here. [[Call the ÖVP:SPÖ!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Look at this! That's the situation. That is why I call three very crucial points: First: There is in the house a request from SPÖ to finally raise this whole thing into federal competence. I think it is everyone and everyone realize that this is the only way to finally end the blocking policy from Lower Austria! . This motion, ladies and gentlemen, is for the vote. All Members who are not willing to join this request will eventually become the hands of Mr Pröll's head of state. Secondly, I should like to thank the Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this request from the EIA, which is present here: What are you gonna do with that? What do you mean? Do you want to eliminate liability questions in advance? Do you want to interrupt the investigation of a 100-million-€ waste? Do you want to destroy a building-ready project in the sense of the head of state Pröll? Or do you want to continue Mrs. Klasnic's election hat? – Ladies and gentlemen! This application is inappropriate and reveals itself by itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of orange blue clubs... – Yesterday, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, you were still orange, today you are blue again! – If [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Free Club, easy!]] You really want to do something fast, easy and actually for the Semmering base tunnel, then vote You will agree with the SPÖ resolution which I shall now refer to. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is very uninteresting!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The one is only more Members!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] What is still particularly important and what is added – I am already excited about how you will behave, Mr Grillitsch – is this last paragraph of the request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want to do something for this project and not just protect Mr Pröll and help Mrs Klasnic in her election campaign, you agree to this request!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16127	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Dr Kräub, on the subject of transport, innovation and technology, by Mrs Kräub, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I believe that there is also a request for an early vote. The last speaker to speak was Mr Eder. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16156	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this proposal, which the EIA has designed and submitted in the last few minutes, is a very well-founded request today. [[Abg. Grill: The SPÖ was that!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Deputies Mag. Molterer and Dr. Stummful keep the above-mentioned paper in height]] That is why we will not agree to this request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore find this to be hypocritical, because it is Mr Pröll Wurst, when a road tunnel is built via Semmering, when the trucks thunder over the Semmering and the environment when 93 million € are written in the sand! [[Abg. Neudeck: Under that!]] [[Abg. Kainz: The Pröll is nothing.]] Who's responsible for this, please? We'll see who's actually responsible for this €93 million! – That’s where Mr. Klubobmann Molterer laughs. This is a clean-washing action by Mr Pröll, who has prevented this tunnel from being built until now. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Cut your nerves!]] The rescue attempt of the ÖVP to save the woman's head of state for the Styria is certainly in addition to this request you have made, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This tunnel will never be built at the theatre that the ÖVP between ÖVP Niederösterreich and ÖVP Styria. The region seems to be sausage! There has been a construction permit since 1992. Since 1992 the tunnel could not only have been built, but it would have already been finished if it had gone off properly. We did not need to feel the discussion at all! But that's how we talk about a new planning, so we're talking from 10 to 15 years old. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Do you know what happens at this time? – At this time, millions of tons of goods with trucks are being carried over the roads at the expense of the population that is there. But that's ÖVP Wurst! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] She's about having prestige! She is about saving a country election that can no longer be saved at the last moment. You will not succeed, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16269	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the consultative group X of the 2006 Federal Proposal. This includes Chapter 65 of the Federal Estimate in 830 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Consultative Group X of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kräber, colleagues, on a Federal Constitutional Act supplementing the B-VG with provisions on the federal infrastructure competence. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Wittauer, Mr Miedl, Mr Miedl, Mr President, on ensuring the implementation of the Semmering base tunnel. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, a nameable vote must be taken. I therefore proceed as follows: The ballots to be used are in the shops of the Members'poules. They bear the name of the or the Member of Parliament, as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Wittauer, Mr Miedl, Mr Miedl, Mr President, and those who voted against to put 'No' vote in the mood. I now ask the author, Mr Wimmer, to begin the call for name; Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16380	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16413	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Members cast: 176, of which 'Yes' votes 97, 'No' votes 79. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wittauer, Mr Miedl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has therefore been adopted. (E 97.) [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Achleitner, Amon, Auer Jakob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Bleckmann, Böhm, Böhmdorfer, Bösch, Brad Alfred, Brinek, Bucher; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler; Edelwall, Eßl; Fekter, Felzmann, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann; Gahr Hermann, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Haubner Peter, Head Herbert, Hofmann, Hellererer, Hornek, Huainigg, Hütl; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Keussnigg, Khol, Kogler, Kohsl, Kurzbauer; cross-country skiers, ledolter, Lentsch, Liechtenstein Vincenz, Lopatka; Machne, Maier Ferdinand, Marek, Miedl, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner Reinhold, Mittermüller Marialuise, Molterer, Murauer; Neudeck, Neugebauer; Pack, Partik-Pablé, Pilz, Praßl, Preider, Prince, Princehorn; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Regler Roderich, Riener, Rosenkranz, Rossmann; Scheibner, Scheuch, Scheucher-Pichler, Schephermair, Schöls, Schultes, Schweisgut, Sieber, Sonnberger, Spindelegger Michael, Stadler, Steibl Ridi, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandel, Tancsits, Turkovic-Wendl; Walch, Winkler, Wittauer, Wöinger, Wolfmayr, Zweytick. Members voted with ‘No’: Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder, Brosz, Broukal, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Darabos; Eder, one; Faul, Fleckl; Gaál Anton, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavischnig, Gradwelt, Grossmann, Grünewald, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hlavac, Hoscher; Jarolim; Chapel, Keck, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kummer, Kuntzl; Lacner, Lapp, Leutner, Lunacek; Maier Johann, Mandak, Marizzi, Matznetter, Moser Johann, Muttonen; The decision-making authority shall Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Pirklhuber, Posch, Prehauser, Prammer, Puswald; Rada Robert, Reheis, Rest-Hintersief, Riepl; Sburny, Scharer, Schasching, Schönpass, Schopf, Silhavy, Spindelberger Erwin, Stadlbauer, Steier, Stoisits; Trunk; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Walther, Wimmer, Worm; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16601	We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herzegovina, colleagues on Semmering's base tunnel. The vote has also been called for. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members'poules and bear the name of the and the deputies, as well as the name “Yes” – these are the grey polls – or “No” – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kräber, colleagues, on Semmering Base Tunnel, “Yes” vote, those who vote against to throw “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mr Wimmer, to begin the call for name; Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16668	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16701	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Members cast: 175, of which 'Yes' votes 67, 'No' votes 108. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kräub, colleagues, on Semmering-basistunnel is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder, Broukal, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Darabos; Eder, one; Faul, Fleckl; Gaal Anton, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gradwelt, Grossmann, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hlavac, Hoscher; Jarolim; Chapel, Keck, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kummer, Kuntzl; Lacner, Lapp, Leutner; Maier Johann, Marizzi, Matznetter, Moser Johann, Muttonen; The decision-making authority shall Oberhaidinger; Parnigoni, Pendl, Pfeffer, Posch, Prehauser, Prammer, Puswald; Rada Robert, Reheis, Riepl; Share, Shasching, Schönpass, Schopf, Silhavy, Spindelberger Erwin, Stadlbauer, Steier; Trunk; For the purposes of this Regulation, Walther, Wimmer, Wittmann, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Achleitner, Amon, Auer Jakob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Bleckmann, Böhm, Bösch, Brad Alfred, Brinek, Brosz, Bucher; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler; Edelwall, Eßl; Fekter, Felzmann, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann; Gahr Hermann, Glaser, Glavischnig, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haidlmayr, Hakl, Haubner Peter, Head Herbert, Hofmann, Hellerer, Hornek, Huainigg, Hütl; Ikrath; Kainz, Kapeller, Keussnigg, Khol, Kogler, Kohsl, Kurzbauer; cross-country skiing, ledolter, Lentsch, Liechtenstein Vincenz, Lopatka, Lunacek; Machne, Maier Ferdinand, Mandak, Marek, Miedl, Mikesch, Misethon, Mitterlehner Reinhold, Mittermüller Marialuise, Molterer, Murauer; Neudeck, Neugebauer; Oils; Pack, Partik-Pablé, Pirklhuber, Praßl, Preider, Prince, Prinzhorn; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Regler Roderich, Rest-Hintersieer, Riener, Rosenkranz, Rossmann; Sburny, Scheibner, Scheucher-Pichler, Schephermair, Schöls, Schultes, Schweisgut, Sieber, Sonnberger, Spindelegger Michael, Stadler, Steibl Ridi, Steindl Konrad, Stoisits, Stummvoll; Tamandel, Tancsits, Turkovic-Wendl; Van der Bellen; Walch, Weinzinger, Winkler, Wittauer, Wöinger, Wolfmayr; Zinggl, Zweytick. [[17:28:13]] Advisory Group IV Chapter 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16899	We are now negotiating the consultative group IV: Inside. An oral report was refused by Mr Special Rapporteur. Mr Parnigoni is the first to speak. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16932	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We live in uncertain times! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To blame, High House, of course, is the coalition of fear of the voters moving to their end with a blue eye and on orange crutches. [[Abg. Murauer: Parnigoni, don't be afraid, we're with you!]] There's nothing left! In view of this, there could be a lot of shame, but no, it does not, for it is a far too serious situation. High house! In these five years, this coalition has rationalized thousands of plan posts in the field of the interior, closed 120 gene army posts that provide training, and implemented reforms in the official apparatus in an absoluteistic way, which have caused deep uncertainty among colleagues. [[Abg. Murauer: Who closed? Parnigoni, who's closed?]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the wrong way! That's a wrong policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Well, well!]] Secondly, By doing so, you have taken the view that the crime rate has exploded. I should like to remind you that in 1999, there were 493 000 offences and a 51.4 per cent reconnaissance rate, and – you have to say that again and again – at the time, I remember exactly, ÖVP and FPÖ members have demanded more vehemently 1,000 executive officials. Today, after five years of bowls, we have 640,000 offences, an increase of 30%, and a reconnaissance rate that has fallen by 13 percent and is somewhere around 38 percent. With your burden policy, you have taken the money out of your hands, and by too few security forces, the stock exchange is still stolen from the skirt – and this, High House, is unpunished, because of the 643,000 offences, 466 000 are criminal acts against foreign property, that is, 72.5 percent, and in this 72.5 percent, that is, more than 450 000 offences, there is only one reconnaissance rate of say and write 22.29 percent. That's a terrible thing! A smooth failure of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop says in a magazine, namely in her own magazine “Public Security”: Get high level of safety! – Mrs Federal Minister! I can't believe it, because if you mean that you're looking at this high crime rate and this dramaticly bad education as your political goal, then – with all personal sympathy – you're really wrong. That's where you misunderstand security policy. It can't really be! In fact, Austria has deserved a better security policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, The only institution I really agree with is the Austrian executive, with enormous commitment to develop the safety standard as high as possible. That's not a question at all. I would like to thank my colleagues. As viewed in the population, shows a report, a confidence test of “Reader’s Digest”, in which the police were elected the most trustworthy institution. 79 percent of the Austrians see the executive as a very or rather trustworthy institution. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, who has the last place in this ranking? – The Austrian Federal Government! [[Abg. Murauer: The SPÖ of course!]] And that's exactly where it shows up with one time: This government is the biggest uncertainty factor, and the security in this country will not return until the coalition of chair glues and standstills clears the field! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17036	Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17058	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I did not expect anything else from Mr Parnigoni either. [[Abg. Ellwall: Always the same!]] Insecure, bad-minded, sick-hearted, that has been the philosophy of SPÖ in the security field for five years, and today there has just been a continuation in this sense. In the security field, there has been only no no for five years from the SPÖ. It's actually a sad game that we're still considered the safest country in the world...... [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's not true anymore!]] I have already said this yesterday in the debate on health: As in a region in the back of India and not in Austria, I feel that this characterises the word of the SPÖ's security spokesman. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is said that 100 Gendarmerie departments have been closed. Think back: Under Minister Lösnak more than 200 gendarmerie departments have been closed! No human has said anything about it. On the contrary! Mr Schlögl explained at the time that it would bring more security if the executives were to concentrate. As far as criminal statistics are concerned, you are not properly informed, for it has for some time fallen thanks to God. The measures taken by the Minister of the Interior and also by her predecessor are taken. Now we are moving in the direction that we are slowly getting hold of this crime population. Remember what reforms have been carried out over the past five years, in the sense of security, so that we can actually cope with the challenges of the future! In the field of security, it is necessary to adapt their own structures accordingly and then implement them. I am convinced that the merging of the waxes is a very, very important and correct step so that double-tracks are reduced and, of course, overlaps are removed. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] [[Abg. Murauer: And who made this happen?]] – After who: our ministers, ministers Strasser and, of course, our Mrs. Interior Ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the budget we will decide today, I believe that this budget is at a very high level. We have already received and decided to increase security expenditure by €163 million in 2005, and we will continue this budget at this high level for 2006. This budget ensures that we can also cope with the challenges that arise with the merging of the guards. I would like to say once again that there has never been such a budget approach in the Second Republic for the internal sector as in 2006 and the previous year, i.e. for 2005. [[Abg. May. Worm: There have never been so many crimes and crimes!]] – If you address the crime statistics, I must explain to you that crime is God’s thanks to you. It is going to work extremely well, and I too would like to thank my colleagues outside for their commitment and great performance in the interests of our people, and I believe that this budget will continue to ensure this good work in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17147	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17168	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, I would like to remind you that at the end of January 2005 the report of the Civil Service Commission was handed over to you. Unfortunately, there were no unanimous reports in this Commission, but there are two reports: one which is very progressive, namely calling for equality of civil and military service, and one that continues to move in the past, according to which the inequality of military and military service should be maintained. We, the Greens, are, of course, one of the progressives and want to see the timeliness of military and military service. And, Mrs Minister, we do not just want to have the same time, but we also want financial equality and we want civil servants who cannot be provided in the institution to receive the same sentence as military workers if they can't be laid down in the barracks or get a so-called external package or lunch package, which is currently € 13.60 as daily food allowance also for civilian servants. Mrs. Minister! I was positively surprised by one of your first statements, in which you have come to know that the financial compensation for civilians must definitely be increased. You spoke of an amount of €12.50 at the time. However, Mrs Minister, the problem is that in the 2006 budget, there is not a single cent that really broke the civilians. If you look at the 2005 and 2006 budgets, then you'll see that's nothing but a continuation and not the necessary increase it needs to be able to really reform civil service. Mrs Ministein, only a reduction in military service, namely civil service, to nine months, is clearly too little and would mean that civilian officers are still uneven and continue to be exploited in this Republic. And that, Mrs. Minister, must finally be over! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, it must be concluded that young men who show a great deal of commitment and do their job in the social field must make it a hunger wage and can only do so if the family is willing to fire financially so that the civil servant can survive at all. Where the family cannot spend the money, the civil servant must make debt during the time of his civil service in order to be able to live at all. And whoever can't do that, he doesn't have the choice between military and military service anymore, but he simply can't afford civil service. This situation must finally end, and it must be concluded that the inequality remains. And I ask you, Mrs Minister, in the interests of civil service-doing young men in Austria, who, through their work, really make a big contribution to society, that you pay them well and that you also give them the money to eat, which they need in order not to starve. [[Abg. Grossruck: Request, Do Not “Request! ”]] [[Abg. May. Worm: The time of the monarchy is over!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Grandruck.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, it is a shame if in Austria people with daily 4 to 5 € are fed to buy three meals each day. You probably know from your own experience what man or woman can buy at €5 – certainly not enough to live. This is certainly not enough to finance its toiletries, heat its home or finance its costs in the housing community. That is not enough, and I would ask you, Mrs Minister, because you also know the importance of civil servants in our society, that you finally recognise them financially and not only by saying that it is so good that we have civilian servants. Put aside civil servants with appropriate means, so that they do not fall into poverty during the time of civil service! Mrs Minister, if you look at the last poverty report, you will see that it clearly shows that civilians must live below the poverty line, and that is because they have done their job to serve the country in the social field. And this, Mrs Minister, must not be any more in the future! Civil servants must not be alms. They simply have a right to be paid for their work accordingly and, above all, to receive daily food money, to receive the basic defence minister, if they cannot be laid down, of course, as well. It does not justify anything, Mrs Federal Minister – absolutely nothing! – that there is still this inequality at all. Austria is a rich country, and that civil servants are treated so badly, Mrs Minister, this is exclusively an ideological matter which the ÖVP and the liberals have jointly produced and which is supposed to be maintained. Mrs Minister, I guess you can't imagine what it would mean if the civilians said today: We don't work a week! There would be a lot in the social system, and then you would see what civil servants in our society are worth. So that it doesn't get that far, let me ask you, Mrs. Minister: Make a decent civil service law novelle and pay civil servants decently! Finally, give them the money so that they don't have to starve, but just as we can all finance the daily food! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17240	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17262	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have talked for hours in the Civil Service Commission, for days, about why there are differences between civil service and the civil service. We simply do not have an alternative service in Austria, but civil service is a replacement service, and civil servants are better placed in many things in relation to those present. They are hardly subject to disciplinary violence, they have no uniform force, no casserence pressure and so on and so on. We discussed this most in detail, I just wanted to take this very short. Another thing: I constantly note on session days that some members of the opposition have difficulty addressing us. I'm telling you, tell me. It's easy: “You’re the liberal club,” because we’re the liberal club, and you don’t have to play a color game and make assumptions when we wear a red, blue or orange sakko. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Color games do you!]] I do not taxi that Mr Eder has a blue sacco, that he is therefore a bluer, or yesterday some were in Orange, but I do not mean that they have made orange their party color. [[Abg. Dr Wittmann: honourable Member Eder, however, certainly belongs to the SPÖ!]] That's all by now. Say: ‘You of the Free Club’; that could be the language rule, then you have no difficulty, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I have already come to the remarks made by my previous speaker, Mr Parnigoni. And you meant that your speech was not a cause for harm. I would like to tell you that almost all the opposition speeches show quite a lot of joy, but we could still accept that. What is much worse, however, is your joy in making everything and everyone bad. It is a pleasure to make everything and everything that happens in Austria, whatever action the government is taking to make bad and to insure people. That's really the thought of your entire policy. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very poor applause!]] – Thanks many times for the applause! I agree with you, even we do not rejoice at this budget, but we did not rejoice at the fact that 2000 saw this government in empty cash, because your socialist finance ministers did not make a proper budget policy. [[Abg. Riepl: But now there are more debts than ever before!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that it is not possible to make unlimited budget expenditure, because we have rules on the level of the deficit in the EU, you know that very well. However, regardless of the EU provisions, we are also interested in keeping the budget deficit as low as possible, because we want to eliminate the debt burden that interest rates have. The deficit is getting bigger, but it's about... – The debt is getting bigger, but it's about the extent. [[Abg. Riepl: How true!]] You have driven the deficit into unprecedented heights, Mr honourable Members, you know that, and we need to clean it up now, and that is why we need to be saved. [[Abg. Riepl: You've accumulated more debts!]] That is why the budget for the interior resort remains the same. [[Abg. Silhavy: When will you stop the shame?]] – That’s not a ‘smear’, Mrs Deputies, you know that! Unfortunately, you do not want to see God until now, even though you have already heard it 50 times. [[Abg. Silhavy: But now you have been in the government long enough to take on the responsibility for the finances!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This debt mountain you left behind cannot be deducted within five years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It's quite impossible. Stop calling in between, and think about what we've already told you! [[Abg. Silhavy: Yes, but that's true!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] However, I would also like to say the following: It is not only the money used for security policy, it is also important for the measures that are being taken, regardless of the funds used. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Who are you talking to now? Orange or blue?]] In addition, as Mrs Minister has already said today, after the merger, after the reform, which has been made in particular in Vienna, more police officers in the field of foreign service are in operation than ever before. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true!]] – Your only answer to everything is “this is not true”! Something other than “this isn’t true” and “that’s wrong” you can’t say! [[Abg. Riepl: But that is really not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Think about it, check it all, then you'll see that it's very true what I'm saying! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Should I say that's right?]] Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop has already said today that a decline in the burden of crime has already been observed. In February, it was minus 5 percent to reduce the crime – it's not true again, you say! – and in March it is 8.6 percent. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: That's not true either?]] I would say that simple counter-argument – “that’s not true” – you can give up. Look If you look at the numbers, look at the reports, and then you will come to a better view! [[Abg. Riepl: In Ottakring 50 cops too little, that's true!]] But it is important to you from the opposition to create panic and uncertainty. – That’s your policy, and they just keep you going. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's not true!]] However, I would also like to draw attention to what has happened positively. For example, the protection zones have developed very well. I've now read that in the 15th century. A further protection zone is to be set up because a school has asked for it, as it has succeeded in getting the drug dealers in some way. Video surveillance in the subways also gives security, and the subjective security feeling is quite simply extremely important. The population must know that it is not unprotected in the subways especially at night. This also concerns the young people, the students: It's important that someone is there watching the scene in front of a school. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Minister, I also think it is very good that you have held a summit or a security meeting with the mayor of Vienna, because in Vienna crime is very high – as in all major cities. I also think it is right that the mayor has taken over duties to increase security. [[Abg. May. Worm: Oh, that's it? What does he say?]] – Mr Mayor has also made financial resources available to relieve the Federal Budget. – Mrs. Minister will probably then report on it. [[Abg. May. Worm: Violence monopoly has the covenant!]] – Not even you know what the socialist mayor in Vienna has done for security, Mrs Worm. You should at least know that! [[Abg. May. Worm: What did he do?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] In this context, Mrs Minister, I would also like to draw your attention to the danger posed by the attacks on banknotes, especially in Vienna, where most of the banking branches are housed in residential homes. We experience over and over again that gangs – which are usually organised crime – are blowing up banknotes and that this puts the population at enormous risk. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Orange or blue?]] I believe that banks really must be obliged to protect their property, their area better, because, as has been said, the population has been exposed to a huge danger. Finally, another important issue: There are more than 20,000 uncompleted files at the independent federal asylsenate. Madam Minister, we have already discussed this: It is urgently necessary to increase human resources for a limited duration until these overhangs are finished. I ask you to do something seriously and soon, because it must not be forgotten that many of the people who are behind these 20,000 acts fall into federal care and present a huge burden on the budget. You can see it in the 2006 budget: a huge burden on federal care. There is an urgent need to do something about this. Finally, I would like to say the following: The main share of crime in Austria is organised crime, is imported crime. It must be made clear to the international criminals that it is not easy in Austria to commit criminal acts, but that our prevention is simply so good that it does not pay off to come to Austria and work here. They should go elsewhere, according to the Floriani principle, and there you have to take care of the security measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17623	Mrs Prokop has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17645	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important to me to note that internal security in our country is very assured and that it enjoys high international reputation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Of course, we face major challenges. If we look at the fields of instability in the East or in the South-East of Europe, this is particularly true of Austrians. In particular, we are increasingly affected by the second wave of organised crime or illegal migration than other parts of Europe. Nevertheless, you really have to compare apples with apples and not apples with pears, because compared to five years ago, criminal statistics have changed throughout Europe. We are currently in a really good position internationally. For example, the current annual report of the Swiss Institute for Management Development clearly shows that Austria is first in the field of personal security and property protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the area of security from threat and violence, Austria is second to the leading industrial nations behind Iceland. There are certainly several reasons for this, and I would really like to call the work of our employees in the executive as the first and most important reason. The record of success, which Mrs Partik-Pablé has just mentioned, is also clear: Criminal statistics have actually been showing a significant trend since the middle of last year, but have been strongly falling since the beginning of this year – an average of more than 5 percent in total Austria, where Vienna is particularly well cut off. This is a very important factor and an indicator that we are on the right path! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I also believe that the necessary modernisation of the system has been started in time. This too is a crucial factor in our getting hold of this trend. Finally, however, a very consistent budgetary policy was also important, which puts on the feet of the most powerful security system possible. In the 2006 budget estimate, we will also need to ensure that we maintain the highest possible Austrian safety standards and, of course, also use these funds with the highest possible effectiveness. We are obliged to do so in accordance with the constitutional guidelines in budgetary policy. Taking into account these aspects, this means in figures that the Ministry of the Interior has a total of € 1 884 775 000 available in 2006. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the highest budget of the Second Republic, except for the 2005 exception. I would also like to address those areas that are particularly important to me, such as the memorials. We have largely completed the construction work this year in the framework of the reform initiative already started by my predecessor. We are now faced with reform efforts in terms of content. We will put forth a great deal of effort and have made every effort to achieve the commemorative year 2005 and to live up to this year of commemoration. As a result, these rooms – Mauthausen and the other memorial sites – will be established as places of encounter, especially the international encounter and encounter of generations. Secondly, I would like to refer briefly to the Civil Service Act, which will be reviewed next week. We will endeavour to make proposals on the basis of the report of the Civil Service Committee, and we will have an opportunity to discuss them in Parliament. The next point is the support of asylum seekers, and the framework conditions have really changed to a positive one. If we had 32 000 asylum applications a year in 2003, it was 25 000 in the previous year. – This is a reduction of 24 percent, and this trend is continuing this year too. The measures that we are now taking, and which have also been taken in the evaluation with all those concerned, are designed to ensure that asylum seekers are cared for as quickly as possible in those areas in order to ensure that they are clear about their status. The laws under review will enable us to do this even better. Of course, the UBAS law is also discussed. We must put this on a legal basis in order to be able to provide this necessary personnel support. These laws are, as has been said, just before the end of the review. We will have an opportunity to discuss this very intensively. I would also like to stress that with 1. May last year, Article 15a agreement was now successfully concluded in cooperation with the federal states. I may just mention a stand that is always very up-to-date, namely that of Traiskirchen: We have to look after 767 people today, more than 250 of whom are in national care and the rest are in federal care. Only today have we completed the talks with the municipality and with the mayor. This year and next year, the reconstruction measures will be put in place to create real human measures for disabled people, for unaccompanied minors and for women among asylum seekers, in terms of leisure and employment opportunities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have said that it is the highest budget – apart from 2005, because that was, so to speak, a kind of funding for the biggest modernisation project in the history of the Austrian executive. We can now consistently and permanently invest in the security of the country. In the field of benefits alone, €5 million will be available next year. – This is the absolutely highest sum that has ever been available since the Second Republic existed. I think that this will really provide a solid basis for investment, equipment and equipment in such an important technology. [[Abg. Gaál: (in the direction of ÖVP) Everyone sleeps!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the personnel sector, the planned modernisation dividends are given in 2006 with the merger of the Gendarmerie and the Police as well as the necessary accompanying measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is also absolutely believable in terms of numbers. One can say about any number, they don't vote, but it's proven that we have more personnel in use on the street. There is clearly a saving in administration, and that is why we can really give additional moments of movement in the field of commitment to current security with the merger. Only the merger of the 45 different command structures on then nine state police commanders is a gain in capacity. If I only look at the harmonisation of the administration, the procurement, logistics and infrastructure are all things that can be merged. The use of synergies in executive service, the merger of operational units, the disappearance of current alarm-based explosive borders – all of this will bring additional mobility and flexibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We can achieve even greater efficiency through this merger and thus provide a higher security moment. The implementation of “Team 04” with 1. It has begun to be achieved in the organization on July 1, 2005. The work is on high speeds. ==References====External links==* Official website It was appointed on 4 April. They are now assigned to include the entire executive service of each state – security guard, criminal service and gendarmerie – under a service authority. The continuous modernisation of resources will also make it clear to the central authorities that in the technical field, ELAK, through SAP, the implementation of a control system, and the results of a cost-performance calculation, there are additional ways of saving. In addition, the Security Directorates and the Federal Police Directorates will be subject to an accurate evaluation in order to guarantee genuinely slim, contemporary, modern administrative structures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Two years ago, the course was set for the launch of “Team 04”, and thus the course for a forward-looking executive. I believe that we have not only decided on this century project here in Parliament, but also that we really have it on good track. In 2006, there will be particularly demanding areas of work for the executives in particular with regard to modernisation work. The aim is to invest as much as possible in security and to relieve the executive of foreign tasks. We have already achieved a number of things in recent years, such as the transfer of passport, reporting and discovery to the communities. We want to continue this path in 2006. To that end, we need to look at security partnerships with the countries. I am very pleased that Vienna has taken a big step, for for example, parking monitoring is really not an important task for an efficient executive. I am very grateful that Mr Mayor Häupl was willing to carry new ideas. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eder: ( towards ÖVP) Model Vienna! Listen up! You're always yelling at Vienna!]] When this is fully implemented, we receive about 100 additional strip services in the city. In other words, more executives in use on the street. This means that together we can help to ensure that the police can focus on their core task, namely the fight against crime and the general security threat. Against this background, of course, this budget has enormous value. The Austrian population – it has already been said, and I would like to mention it again – is putting real trust in the executive. The findings of the opinion researchers are clear: The current Eurobarometer shows in a survey that the executive is the number one in the confidence of the population and that 74 percent – and that is by 10 percent more than the European average! – They say they trust the police. A similar result was achieved in the confidence test of the magazine “Reader’s Digest”, where 79 percent of respondents said that trust was given. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Congratulations!]] The people of our country expect us not to lose sight of the existing problems in these efforts. That is why we will and must continue the successful path that has taken in recent years. We will take necessary implementation measures, develop the strategies tested and complement them with new measures. The process of concentrating on the real core tasks will continue, and I believe that this will allow us to invest much more in security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With a share of 2.88 percent in the general budget, internal security in the 2006 budget is again the highest in proportion, with the exception of 2005. I think that this is really a proof of the importance of this security in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Security is simply a value in which Austria is measured. We're good at it internationally. However, safety is particularly measured as to how people feel. I am convinced that we can continue to meet this top objective with this budget and that we can guarantee security for people.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17805	Next, Mr Gaál. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17828	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to make a few comments on civil protection; that is something I personally like. I am very grateful to you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for taking over the patronship of the Children's Safety Olympics, and also to the officials of your home with whom we have a very constructive cooperation, the Austrian Civil Protection Association and its nine national organizations, because we are working here as an extended arm of the Ministry of the Interior and this sixth time we are starting this child safety Olympic “Safety Tour 2005”, starting on 23. May, across Austria. After all, we reach more than 50,000 people's students who are fighting for the title of the safest folk school in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Thankfully, my friend has also adopted himself in the committee on this issue, and I think we will succeed in doing a lot more together. We are concerned with teaching children in a playful manner about the right behaviour in emergency situations and providing them with the necessary security measures so that they do not panic in a critical situation, but rather consider and think about the right actions in order to survive a situation as far as possible without harm. These activities have a role to play in Europe. Many EU countries are involved in this “safety tour” as a European project in their countries. This security initiative of the Austrian Civil Protection Association with its nine national organizations is quite simply possible through the most active support and provision of financial resources by the department, and for this I would like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But unfortunately, these pleasant circumstances cannot be transferred to the security situation in Vienna. I do not want to underestimate your efforts here, there are constructive discussions. Vienna is willing to cooperate with you here, I am also involved in this initiative. However, Mrs Federal Minister, it is the rigorous savings measures of the Federal Government that simply do not allow us to achieve the safety standard we need throughout Austria and in Vienna. This is why the fears and fears of the population come; after all, there are 75 percent and more who feel insecure in this city. There's still a lot to do. Unlike you, Mrs. Federal Minister, I believe that there are still too few police on the street. Therefore, a question of security is also a question of prevention and presence. [[Abg. Murauer: Every citizen a gibber!]] Politics – you have said it – is obliged to give protection and security to the people. I think it's the wrong signal to save in the field of security. That's not our agreement!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17881	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. [[Abg. Ellmauer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 4 minutes!]] Four minutes? [[Abg. Grandruck: 3 plus 1!]] – Good, 4 minutes of welcome time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17931	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On the contrary, we do not need to hide a comparison: The budgetary policy of this Federal Government has catapulted us to the top of the European Union in recent years! The facts clearly show this: the highest employment rate, the discharge of Austrians by the largest tax reform of the Second Republic, the promotion and strengthening of the economy, 60 percent more investment in infrastructure, increased expenditure on research and development and more social benefits. [[Abg. Murauer: Right!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Yes, yes!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo!]] Although various newspaper reports, studies and expertise have already been presented to the satisfaction, the fact cannot be rejected by hand: Austria is good at it! Austria is interesting for foreign investors, expand existing companies, and local companies and employees are doing well. [[Abg. Murauer: Yes!]] We also want to give the Austrians the security that they can live their lives as they wish. With the 2006 budget, which represents a significant increase compared to the success of 2004 and which holds the high level of the 2005 federal estimate, the comprehensive security understanding of our federal government can be taken into account. This is confirmed by the falling crime rate – by 5 percent less than last year – and by the increasing education rate. And this trend is continuing in 2005. Austria is the safest country in the world, but the need for security is growing. Due to structural reform measures and professional management, the excellent Austrian security policy was preserved and provision for a secure Austria could also be made for the future. Custom regional security concepts, a slim, target-proof security service organisation, the highest possible presence and direct dialogue with citizens, international cooperation, national disaster protection and coordinated crisis management, all of these points guarantee the Austrian population the maintenance of these high security standards. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Yes, yes!]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] In order to continue to attract the business location as a destination country for investors and a popular tourist country, a comprehensive security understanding of this federal government is of course of course. With the combination of the guards, the Team 04 project, the executive will become even more modern and efficient in order to be best prepared for the future. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The focus of the discussions on the new rules on asylum and xenophobia is on the safety of people and the fair treatment of asylum seekers. In any case, it must be distinguished between those who need asylum and those who misuse asylum. For the latter, measures need to be made and instruments created in order to be able to counter asylum abuse with due consequence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The international legal basis for the field of asylum – the Geneva Convention on Refugees, the European Convention on Human Rights and the 6th Convention on Human Rights. Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights – will be taken into account in the new draft on the Asylum and Foreign Police Act and thus guarantee fair treatment for asylum seekers. Our guideline, committed to the rule of law, sensitive to human rights and consistently against crime, will continue to take account of the 2006 budget and ensure a balanced balance between freedom and security, while guaranteeing fundamental and freedom rights. Mrs. Federal Minister, in conclusion, I thank all the employees of the Austrian executive very much and ask you to forward this thanks to your employees. You have done great things for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18054	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18075	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yesterday in the evening at half past eleven I got a call on my phone; it's a bit unusual that at half past eleven my cell phone is ringing. It's got a district politician from the 2nd. ==References====External links==* Official website District – called and told me the following story. – “History” is good; he has given me the following description that I will now give you. He was yesterday in the “Admiral” competition office in the Prater, which was only opened three weeks ago with Saus and Braus and Vienna politicians – perhaps also federal politicians – and I do not know that – which is a big bet, the Prater will be made new – and there he looked at the game Juventus against Liverpool. He was, as he assured me yesterday and today, one of about 250 guests present. You can imagine how big this is, so it's not a little "Quetsche", but it's big and new. At the end of this game, no, just after the break – that's what it's really important – about 20 uniformed police officers came to this admiral, and they got there of the 200 people – perhaps only 180 or 170, I wasn't there, so I can't exactly say that, I'm giving back what I heard – 30 people, these are now my words: fished out, controlled and, so to speak, “joined” them. This commitment, during which these 30 were taken out of there and – I don't know how to call it in the police language – “officialized” the new Land Police Commander Dr. Horngacher led. This is my point, because you mentioned it today. I might not have told you the story because it takes a lot of time. Get out of this one – can I call it that, Mrs. Minister? – Perlustrating 30 people is nothing at all. These 30 people have not been taken away by the police or anything else, but they have been controlled by the police in a way that the caller has emphasized to me, quite correct and sensible, in front of the competition office – perhaps because he has already shown himself to be a district politician – and they were then told that they should no longer be in the “admiral” competition office. [[Abg. Großruck: If something had happened, you would have screamed too!]] Mrs. Minister! You'll probably already have a presumption why I'm telling you that. If 200 people are in a bet, then 20 uniforms come and control 30: What do you think these people had skin color? [[Abg. Murauer: White!]] No, one that distinguishes it from the 170 others! I do not know, Mrs Minister, why, why – I do not know. Mrs. Minister, you don't know either because you're hearing this from me for the first time, but you have more options to investigate how it was. For me as a Member – and as such I was informed of it – this is pure racism after the description I have received in this regard. If people who are in a group of 200 who, I say now, are peacefully looking at the football game Juventus – Liverpool, peacefully in the sense of not aggressive, but quite emotionally, because they hold on to them, the others to those – I would in this case hold to Liverpool, I confess, but I was on duty prevented from looking at this football game yesterday – then such an official act can, and that is now the remarkable thing: led by the newly newly appointed country police commander of Vienna, only as racist, because this control has been applied to the skin color. The District politician says: Excuse me, why don't you control me? Others who have solidified themselves also ask: Why are those who are black, and not those who are white? – I ask you that too, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] With all due respect to Mr. Landes police commander – I know him personally only because he has been in Parliament more often, at Hearings and the like; I do not know him personally, but he has been more often in Parliament, and here I have met him: I have learned to appreciate his work at the time as head of the economic police. That is why I have great respect before Mr. Dr. Horngacher from the past, because he has, so to speak, already It's just that this is a time back. But everything I have known since then about how specifically in Vienna – about other federal states I have not done so much detailed information – this supposed crime fight makes me more concerned, Mrs. Minister! I am not speaking here as a security spokesperson of the Greens, I am speaking here as a human rights spokesperson of the Greens. That is why I would be very interested in yesterday's information because I suspect that – and this is information that can be read in newspapers – only two or three weeks ago was a big report in the "Falter" – that they have a system and because there are many indications that the system is, Mrs Minister, and so on, something like – and that has now done the colleagues from the government groups enough – a game of statistics and figures. This has nothing to do with the security of the inhabitants of Austria. It is also essential to me to say that. I do not belong to those who are here in Parliament and who always say: The safety of Austrians is important to me! – I am concerned about the safety of the inhabitants of this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Tourists from Japan, including asylum seekers from China and also migrants, immigrants and guest workers from Turkey also deserve safety and the satisfaction of their objective and subjective sense of security. [[Abg. Großruck: But also our children deserve safety from intoxication!]] And our children, colleague Grossruck, our children are the children of the inhabitants of this country! [[Abg. Großruck: Our children deserve safety!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've had the opportunity for ten years to realize that you have a problem with this. But I only know the Federal Minister very briefly, since December last year, but on the other hand again for a very long time, because I was ten years old when she became medal winner at the time. At the time, I was so to speak proud of you, Mrs Minister, and I tell you that I would like to stay because you are the person who is responsible for the security of this country, which is the largest establishment with the highest number of staff. [[Abg. Neugebauer: It can stay that way!]] However, Mrs Minister: You said it. But, well, what are you saying? - You have to defend your budget. However, that others come here and want to imagine that this new budget means an improvement, although hundreds of posts are lost, I believe that it is only more ridiculous. Hundreds of service posts less, and security will rise? – That is proof, Mrs Minister, that you will take action once! But, hopefully, we will not have more opportunity to discuss this in this constellation, because hopefully before that will happen, which is urgently necessary, namely that it is elected in this country! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now I come to a subject, Mrs Minister, and you have also mentioned it in connection with the staff for the UBAS. You have stressed here that asylum applications in Austria have already fallen by 24 percent in 2004 compared to 2003, and this trend continues in the first quarter of this year. I can only say without evaluating it: Yes, I am pleased that there is this decline because it could be an indication of the worldwide decline in persecution. This is my hope that there is no longer so much reason for people to flee their homes. That's a wishful thought for me, as I know. But I do not understand one thing, Mrs Minister: why, if you bring us this good news – that I mean very seriously now – which is also a good message for me, then submit drafts for new legal provisions. I don't know if you don't believe me, I don't know you that I can estimate that. But if the UNHCR – and this is not a NGO or a church organization – these are not “good people”, but that is the UN, that is the representation of the High Commissioner of Refugees here in Austria – today has spoken of the fact that your drafts, which are now under consideration, include eleven injuries of the Geneva Convention of Refugees, then I would not feel quite well – now symbolically speaking, Mrs. Minister – in my skin as a Minister of Security and Refugees in this Republic. Counted eleven injuries of the Geneva Refugee Convention [[Abg. Kößl: Think back once...!]] Not every refugee who needs protection – which is the highest premise of the government or the minister – will receive this protection in future, says the representative of UNHCR in Austria. The deportation into the hands of the persecutors, serious human rights crimes can develop, he says. [[Abg. You can exaggerate everything!]] That's not a left-wing radical, it's not a greener, it's not a good man, it's a good man, but it's someone who takes his job seriously, and who's looked at your drafts that you've now assessed, Mrs. Minister! I can now only appeal to you that you really take these objections that exist here seriously or “let” them take seriously by your employees. By the way, I fully question the need for this kind of innovation. This is, so to speak, political populism, which is happening here, because it creates much more legal uncertainty without anything being won. [[Abg. Großruck: You support unbridled immigration policy!]] Mrs Prokop, that's all before your time, but we're about to have an asylum law-old, an asylum law-new that doesn't apply once more a year, Mrs. Minister - it's only with 1. May last year entered into force – and then have an asylum law-new-prokop in hand. [[Abg. Kößl: It brings greater legal certainty to refugees and asylum seekers!]] Yes, believe You really think that makes sense? [[Abg. Kößl: Oh yes, that's why we do it!]] I don't think so. But I do not believe it because I am, but because the opinions that have so far been made to speak all this language. This is a process – these are now my words – that will create legal uncertainty, which will be deliberately undermined by the principle that those who need protection, Mrs. Minister. I have already overrun my time enormously – I hope no one else in our club is disfavorable – but it is necessary to say that, Mrs Minister, especially because you are still new in this function. We would also risk what we here in Parliament, all in common, even as one – how should I say? – have considered exceptional performance, namely the fact that it has succeeded in large part not to have homeless refugees in Austria, through basic care and through the new Federal Service Act, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's what you're doing!]] [[Abg. Kößl: Think about how you criticized the asylum law in 2003! But we know exactly that we have to innovation it!]] There is a danger that we will have our own – “we” I say now as a representative of the National Council, not as a representative of the administration – aspirations which are essentially EU directive transposition – but sometimes the EU is really good for something, I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, because we would probably not have come by ourselves – that we would also question this benefit that we have created ourselves. That is why, Mrs Minister, I invite all my colleagues to come to the local VIII on Friday at 9.30 a.m. There is a great hearing on the drafts of foreign police law and asylum law, in which we will try with NGOs, with church organizations, with constitutional experts, with lawyers, with representatives also of your resort, Mrs Minister, with representatives of legal users in relation to asylum law, to review these draft laws critically, as it were, in common work, but quite critically from both directions – there are also things that are positive inside – and thus contribute to a positive outcome. [[Abg. Kößl: To discuss!]] [[Abg. Kößl: This draft is generally positive!]] I would also like to extend this invitation to the Members of the Government, of course also to the SPÖ colleagues, because what can already be discussed and corrected in advance of these eleven violations of the Geneva Convention on Refugees will no longer have to do with the Committee on the Interior. And that can only be in our sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18327	The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18349	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address two issues here. One is the drug situation that I – and I speak especially from the point of view of the city of Graz – have followed for years. I also have a daughter in the seventh class of gymnasium, so to speak I also know the youth scene and drug scene, also in the discotheques. We know that there has been a massive increase in drugs in Graz since the destruction of the drug ring in Vienna several years ago. The fact is that drug dealers come mainly from the black African area. We also know that many are simply not approachable and that the Graz drug scene is not really under control. Her predecessor has used the Special Commission on Drugs in Graz. It works very well, we have a little more staff here for the first time, but the situation is still not enough in the area of the entire executive. My daughter also tells me that there is hardly a discotheque visit where she is not addressed to drugs, to Ecstasy tablets and much more. I know it's very, very hard to get hold of the whole scene, I also know that the scene is wandering, but still: I would also like to ask you, as a mother, to do everything possible to stop this. I believe that the scene is not only so dramatic in Graz, I also believe in Vienna and many other agglomerations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You also know the places, you know the possibility of video surveillance. Since I myself come out of gastronomy and know the problem field in all variety, I would like to encourage you to consider whether there is no possibility of cooperating closely with discotheque owners by simply monitoring certain neural points on which the distribution of these drugs takes place. I am thinking of the rooms in the toilet area, I am thinking of the entrance areas. There are doorsteps everywhere you can work closely with. I believe that there are some approaches here if you simply take new pragmatism. As an educational speaker and as a mother, however, something else is my concern, so I would like to ask you: How have the protection zones in front of schools proved themselves so far? Is there any experience? How many schools have so far known themselves and reported themselves for a protection zone? - Maybe you can tell us something else. A second issue I would like to address is, of course, the dramatic increase in the field of burglary statistics. It is – and this becomes clear from the statistics – simply a fact that after the enlargement of the East, the collapses, especially in eastern Austria, have increased dramatically; in Lower Austria, in Burgenland, but also in Upper Austria. We know that it is there on the one hand organized crime at work, but on the other hand it is also this increasingly increasing attitude that one of the neighbors is no longer interested. Whether the door is locked in a multi-storey house or not, it is also less and less interested. There are also fewer housemasters. I know the housemaster problem. [[Abg. May. Worm: You have abolished the Home Care Act!]] One could also address things with much more information and offensive to prevent thefts prophylacticly, but one could also actively be prophylactic. I think about it and say it again – I don't know how close that is in other federal states, I only know it from Carinthia – there are regular checks on the motorway in Carinthia, where the cars are turned off to a control parking lot and controlled without any problem. I think that's a handle. If you do this at irregular intervals and relatively dense and comprehensive throughout Austria could achieve this prophylactic effect, which my colleague Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé also addressed. If you seized theft in good time, you could be deterred from ever going to Austria, because they had to fear being caught in a kind of plan square after a collapse. However, I also ask you to assert all your influence that the Schengen enlargement countries will not be able to do so until maturity is achieved, i.e. if border security is comprehensive and the possibility is created that we can also say with good conscience: Okay, one can agree in the EU that Schengen will be implemented because it is expected that the Austrian population can really continue to live in security. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would really like to ask you to assert your full influence with your colleagues. Your colleague, Mr Beckstein, from Bavaria, has already pointed out that we should really be restrictive in the implementation of Schengen until all the measures have been implemented. Overall, I think it is very positive that crime statistics are declining. But, as has been said, particularly in the field of burglary, especially in eastern Austria, and the whole of the drug sector, we are faced with problems that will continue to deal with us intensively over the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18402	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Posch. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18424	Madam President. Minister! Inputs: If the story of Mrs. Stoisits is true of the Prater, and if it's done as she described it, I mean – and I assume that your officials are no longer there, that they're already intensive on research – that this can't be tolerated. [[Abg. Kainz: You have to look at that!]] Please? [[Abg. Kainz: You have to look at this!]] Yeah, I'm saying you have to look at it. I don't know. I could only hear what Mrs Stoisits said. But if the story has become that way, then it's ripe for consequences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few points on the budget chapter inside. The key figures for the 2006 budget actually show a budget of €8 million lower than that of 2005 – you have said that yourself – and there has been an increase before. But what is relevant is that the share of the internal security budget chapter is now significantly below 3 percent, measured by total expenditure, and that is a historical low. That must be said quite clearly. This is all the less gratifying than there seems to be no increase in staff in the area – I only have three minutes – neither in the safety executive nor in the central problem areas of recent years, namely the Federal Asylamt and the UBAS. [[Abg. Kößl: All tasks will be fulfilled!]] In the case of UBAS, budgeted personnel expenditure is even lower compared to the 2005 budget, and I find no other figures in the establishment plan, so that the question arises: How to speed up asylum procedures? Even if you have referred to a new UBAS law, which will come, you will still need more staff and for that you will also need the corresponding budgetary dosage. A few points would still be allowed to me if we were with the staff. That was with your predecessor, that is with the Lower Austrians, that is, if you allow me, with the Lower Austrian EIA politicians always a certain danger as far as personnel policy is concerned. You'll notice the police occupations, the occupations of the state police officers. Then I read in a medium that the new head of political speech of Rauchegger and his deputy Astrid Schrenk had emphasized in a press conference that they did not own any party books. That's what I'm asking myself: Is that especially worth mentioning? And it goes on to say: Why he had been preferred to his former superior Liberda, he didn't know, said smokers. The Minister of the Interior said that there had been difficulties in Carinthia in dealing better with smokers, he had taken only the media himself. I don't know these difficulties. I made smokers clear. - Quote. Unfortunately, I don't have time to explain this, but a biterl a "parsifal gesture" and a biterl of a naïve basic attitude is behind it, so I wonder: What's really going on? You may still be able to get a position on this. I would have liked to say a few more about the asylum law, but my folderist already shows me the rod; three minutes are just short. In conclusion, I repeat only the sentence that Mr Stoisits said: Take the criticism of UNHCR seriously! There are a number of hardships inside, for example, when I think only of forced nutrition. So far, only Turkey has done this with its political prisoners.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18493	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputy's friend. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18514	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As has already been pointed out today, the Austrian Federal Government is a major concern to provide the people with the best possible security, whether by fighting crime, whether through increased traffic monitoring or also by the Austrian Federal Army. I would like to point out that our executive is doing excellent work, and there can be no mention that services are now being dismantled. On the contrary. As a result of the integration of the customs guard into the executive, the number of foreign officials has increased by 500, and many other officials are currently in training. In my home country Upper Austria, the number of crimes has fallen significantly by the actions of the Ministry of the Interior and by the high level of commitment of our executives, and with 53.4 percent of the investigation rate in February, Upper Austria was clearly at the forefront. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Under SP-innenminister Schlögl, 2 916 executive officials were employed in the foreign service in Upper Austria at the beginning of 2000. Under Minister of Interior Strasser and Lies Prokoper, this figure increased to 3,069 by the beginning of this year, which is a plus of 153 officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means that the policy of this federal government and the policy of the Federal Minister Lessen is correct and brings more security to the citizens. However, civil protection is very important for the safety of people. It is an important concern of the Austrian population and helps people to feel secure in Austria, because the population can expect help if an accident or disaster occurs. The Ministry of the Interior offers preventive information in the form of information brochures as well as training and discussions with experts and is also active in the field of fire protection and radiation protection. 40 000 brochures were issued last year on civil protection. Civil protection is the extended arm of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The 2006 budget also estimates € 5.9 million in expenditure in this area. This includes subsidies and subsidies to institutions such as the Austrian Civil Protection Association, the Bergrettungsdienst, the Red Cross and also the Bundeswehrverband. I note that in Austria we have a comprehensive and very well-functioning civil protection system, which best supports the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, as President Gaál has already said. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and to representatives of the SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the volunteers of the operational organizations who are volunteering. High house! The concerns of civil protection and the security of citizens are taken into account in this budget proposal, and Austria will continue, I am convinced, to remain one of the safest countries in the world. I would like to give my approval to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18593	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18615	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Prokop, you are the representative who, as it were, has made half the dozen full when it came to marketing, that so many women have now been appointed to ministerial offices, and I think it would now be time to remember something of it if it makes a difference whether Strasser as a man leads the department or Prokop as a woman leads the place. [[Abg. Murauer: This is a difference!]] The first thing we noticed was – at least a little light shimmer of hope – that there was relatively suddenly a women's promotion plan at the Ministry of the Interior. However, I think it is the thinnest, most sparse and unambitious women's promotion plan of all sectors. Maybe it was a quick shot. I would then ask you to work more slowly and thoroughly and to put a proper women's promotion plan on the table. [[Abg. Kößl: Once you're too slow, once too fast!]] Then I wanted to see if it was possible to read the woman's manuscript somewhere in the further political activities that have a little more time available. I must confess, Mrs Prokop, I already know you from the Lower Austrian Landtag, so I had very limited hopes. They have not precisely been profiled there as a women's policy pioneer. We actually now have a police reform in which the top positions are firmly in men's hands. That's not really surprising, but it would have been a chance to really apply Gender Mainstreaming where it's about something. [[Abg. Kößl: Either you don't understand this, or you don't want to understand it!]] I know the men are always excited when it comes to assigning a few posts to the women. But it would be high time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: But think about it for God's sake! You don't understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish that soon the Fifty-Fifty-Quote will also be in the ÖVP Club, but unfortunately some of you will not be there. Unfortunately for you, whether for the ÖVP you do not know. [[Abg. Kößl: It's coming!]] - It's gonna be all right. Wonderful! Let's see who of you will meet, and he won't be there any more. Okay. They could even speed up the procedure by voluntary relinquishing. But voluntary resignation is not a matter of government and government parties. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Back to the subject. The second area, particularly relevant to the budget, which I thought could at least be a consensus, as one could also approach women's politics, is also the protection of violence held by the EIA. The Ministry of the Interior, together with the Ministry of Women, is financing intervention agencies against violence. There has been a significant increase in this, already in the last year, of which we do not notice anything. There are, I believe, €10,000 more, and in a situation where several geographical areas, for example several districts in Vienna, cannot be cared for at all, because so many cases land at the intervention agencies that they do not deal with the leaner resources. Now I ask you, Mrs Minister: How can you answer that you simply do not comply with the legal obligation to protect against violence, because you have not budgeted enough funds for it? – The interest of the minister seems to be limited, I note. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Excuse me, that's unimaginable! That's an affront like that from the speaker's mouth!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I also find it immeasurable that the Minister for the Protection of Violence is not more interested and committed. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The arrogance of the minority!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] For the word ‘arrogance’ there would normally be a call for order if President Khol were here. I am more generous, I can live with the word “arrogance. ” I think that what you are doing is that – I am not using the word now – A the power you often exercise here. But what I really think is outrageous is that the ministry does not sufficiently teach the legal obligation to protect violence, to support victims of violence – usually the women – but is then placed on the market as a gender budget measure. The gender aspect of gender policy, the promotion of women in the Ministry of the Interior, is that there is insufficient legal commitment. That's an excruciating thing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A concrete suggestion – perhaps at least you can befriend yourself – would be a measure that requires training for your civil service, and that is something that at least does not go into the millions of euros. In the specific field of violence – and since I insist that this is presented by your side as important again and again – you stress that there has been great progress in the Law on the Protection of Violence. I totally agree. However, in the application of the Law on Violence, we note that in the urban areas, much more often a direction is taken by violent family members, usually men, than in the rural area, where obviously the acquaintances – from any social meeting forum, football club, bubble music, tribal table, whatever – are so narrow that the gendarm, police officer, does much harder to refer to the well-known husband of the house. I believe that this is a question of making your civil servants more trained so that the officials are aware of the importance of what this is all about. That would be a very concrete proposal that you could take up. The last subject I would like to address, because this is the first really great act of law that you are presenting and where I would have just hoped for a minister to understand the situation of women, is the asylum system for which you are now presenting a legislative novel. Minister Strasser has completely deafened herself on the issue of sexual persecution of women. The fact that there is political persecution of women is difficult to understand enough, because it is always believed that only the men are politically active in the various states and are therefore persecuted. It is obviously difficult to believe that women are also politically active and can be persecuted. But there are also a number of acts that are internationally recognized as gender-specific persecution. These are in the most crass form: Widow burning, genital mutilations, serial rapes. In the less narrow forms: clear circumcision of the rights of women, as we know from some fundamentalist countries, for example through the obligations of concealment and so on. This is something which obviously does not exist in the Austrian asylum policy in law and in its implementation, has no place and you, too, now remain completely guilty in this innovation. I am not going to deal with the many shortcomings that you are re-establishing or not eliminating with this asylum novel, nor am I referring to where in practice the problems lie, but I simply urge you to anchor gender-specific persecution in your home in law or in a competent directive so that women can at last claim their right to asylum and obtain asylum in this context too. Then, of course, such naturalities should also be included in the implementation, such as that women are automatically consulted by women. You have to make it clear to me how a woman who, for example, has become victims of genital mutilation or who threatens to do so, in an orphanage, where she has to put into practice everything she ever wants to say as an asylum ground, after she has just given the fingerprint to an authorized man, possibly under armed protection, about such intimate physical processes. But if she does not, she has lost her chance of asylum. That was an example of many I could bring. I am just telling you one thing, because I am tired of hearing from the government representatives over and over again how important that would be to them anyway and that we can handle all these cases with the humanitarian pass: In Austria, exactly three women have received asylum in recent years due to genital mutilation. However, there are at least 8 000 to 9 000 women affected already in Austria, under different residence permits. There are a few thousand women around the world every day. Mrs Minister, once again it would be necessary for you to live your wife's life not only as the government's PR-gag, but actually become women's political activity.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18794	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18816	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! From the gender problems to another problem area, one area in which I, Mrs. Federal Minister, am quite concerned; I mean the first reception centre Thalham in the municipality of St. Georgen in Attergau in the Vöcklabruck district. The fears of the citizens' initiative, which is there and which has collected the signatures – I say, a multicolored citizens' initiative, that is, not a party initiative – unfortunately, their concerns have indeed been confirmed by God. After this transformation took place in the pre-ministership period, i.e. the transformation of a federal agency, which, as I think, has worked very well, into a first-time recording centre, I can only tell you that the fears are correct because there is a huge increase in crime in this region, with the ads, I would say, being dealt with very generously. This means that ads in the case of shop thefts are only made more in exceptional cases or if the amount exceeds 100 €. If one does not show the other cases, it naturally has a positive effect on criminal statistics. Thus, under €100, nothing usually happens – the population suffers, the economy suffers, tourism suffers. It is, as is known, for many, many years now a liberal demand to set up first-level reception centres close to the border. In my opinion, however, the question arises whether because of the fact that we have been since 1. In May 2004, only countries of the European Union and safe third countries around us would not have to reduce the number of those to be included in the first reception centres. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] ==References====External links== November 2004 to send a request to you. Question 16 has dealt with traumatisation. But unfortunately I have not received exhaustive information from God. The question was: “How many asylum procedures have been initiated on the basis of a alleged traumatisation? “ Then it was explained to me that the claimed traumatisation or traumatisation is usually found in the course of the procedure. I have no reference to a number, so I have no answer to it. However, I still believe that it is important to stop the abuse that is taking place with it. That is, I think, relatively undisputed. That is why I think it makes sense. It also seems that this possibility of abuse is being abandoned in the novelle of the Asylum Act. I would like to stress that if there is a real traumatisation, aid must, of course, also be provided. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18877	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18898	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say positively that cooperation with the country of Vienna has improved – in contrast to the time of your predecessor, who has just failed that he has repeatedly faced constructive forces. However, I fear, Mrs Federal Minister, that what has been agreed will not be to do with this budget. Contrary to what Mr Kößl said, we in Vienna are very much concerned about getting more police officers, that has also been said by our mayor, and I think that will be necessary. I've been told by a representative of a big insurance company that there's been quite a lot of burglaries in a street. He went to the Commissioner where he was told: Yeah, what do you want me to do, I can't get out because of any burglary! – This is, of course, a very sad statement that shows that we really need more police officers in Vienna. Therefore, Mrs. Federal Minister, I expect that our demands will also be met in exchange. On the question of intervention agencies, Mr Weinzinger has already spoken. There too we need more staff. We want this law to be properly implemented. [[Federal Minister Prokop talks to an employee.]] – Mrs Federal Minister, I would be glad if you would listen to me, because I believe that the question of intervention agencies is very important for those women who are threatened with violence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would also like to say a few things about the question of migrants. I miss sufficient measures in this area. You only see the language courses. However, it is also true that Vienna is doing much more that much more language courses are promoted. In fact, we always hear of the various resorts only negative. Migrants are held responsible for the PISA debakel instead of promoting language competence accordingly. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! There would be a number of tasks, but I think with this budget you will not be able to deal with them.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18951	The next speaker was Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18972	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by Mr Stoisits. In the field of the Ministry of the Interior, extensive measures are being taken to enable executives to deal with minorities or persons especially with other skin color to sensitize. I am familiar with two broad-based projects in this area, which I would like to briefly outline here in the House. The first takes place together with the largest American human rights organization, the ADL. In cooperation with the BMI, trainings and seminars are offered for police and gendarmen in order to be able to respond properly in terms of where it is often a matter of deciding quickly in seconds. In particular, it refers to the prevention of racist and discriminatory behaviour. The second project concerns, as it were, the relationship between the police and Africans. This, of course, takes place at the Federal Police Directorate Vienna and serves to improve understanding, with emphasis mainly on mutual understanding between black Africans and executives. For this purpose workshops, seminars, but also events such as football games or similar events take place. I hope that this was also noted by Mr Stoisits. I would also like to tell you briefly about an event that took place in Hartberg about a month ago in my constituency. I had the honour of being present at the opening of the Gendarmerieposten Rohrbach at the Lafnitz, and would like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, here on behalf of the officials of the Poste Rohrbach on the Lafnitz quite warmly for this, as a deputy for your ministry, that the operation for this construction could be implemented so quickly and smoothly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We want Austria to continue to be the safest country. I am of the same opinion as the head of state Waltraud Klasnic: The task of politics is to find ways to give security and trust, because the sense of security does not self-esteem. It is a task which must be carried along by all citizens and, above all, actively promoted. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, stop talking the executive badly and bring our country into uncertainty! Help Rather, they help to convey a sense of security to our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19023	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19045	Mr President. Minister! Mr Partik-Pablé said that she felt that we had no pleasure with the development in Austria, and even had a lot of damage. I say quite openly, we really have no joy with the development in Austria. If the crime increases from 450 000 crimes in 1999 to over 750 000, then there can be no joy or joy. It's actually a chuzpe if you've been pasted by the FPÖ or as the party now may be called a few years ago: Vienna can't be Chicago. Pasted Now Your opponent Street: Vienna must not become Istanbul. – It is a trap of history somewhere that a middle-right government is responsible for a higher and increasing crime than a government led by social democrats. Actually, my colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, should have spoken. It'll have its reason why she doesn't speak today. Due to the short period of time only two highlights on your field, Mrs. Minister. You've addressed the Civil Service Act. I would ask you and call on you to reconsider this area, just as your colleagues from the EIA have been talking about in recent weeks, and to ensure that there is equality between civil service and military service. This would be a modern policy in this area, because the great majority of Austrians have recognized that the former Presseberger image of civilians has never voted and that, second, due to the work of civil servants, there must also be an approximation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also say quite openly, your model with nine plus three will also get a constitutional problem. I would ask you not, as your colleague Strasser has already seen, to run into an unconstitutional law, because nine plus three is twelve and twelve is not a reduction. Second point: Asylum Act. We have signaled a willingness to talk here, which is still there. But if you look at the budget, Mrs Minister, you can see that what is at the heart of our respect for human rights and constitutionality, namely the increase in the efficiency of procedures, is not guaranteed. This budget provides for cuts in the personnel sector, both as regards the Federal Asyl Office and the Bundesasylsenat. The figures speak for themselves. There is a reduction in this area. This makes what you have always claimed to be unbelievable in the public. I hear the message well, I alone lack faith. I'd ask you to reconsider. If you can show efficiency in this area, there will also be a willingness to talk from us. Constitutionality, humanity and efficiency, that is, more staff in this area, then you can expect us.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19096	Mr Schöls has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19117	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my warmest thanks to all the colleagues of the Executive Service, who serve in Germany and abroad, for their work, as it is, of course, in a focus which the public does not always see as positive. I think they all deserved this thanks. [[General condolences.]] I would like to say to Mrs Weinzinger – who is unfortunately not in the house at the moment – that Mrs Bundesminister is not a “PR-gag of this government” but very likely continues the successful work of her predecessor. [[Abg. Gaál: Not in the hall!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I envy the Socialist Group, dear Rudi Parnigoni, I envy you for your selective perceptiveness. Among three Social Democratic Interior Ministers – one of them is still sitting here – namely Lösnak, Einm and Schlögl, over a thousand posts were saved. [[Abg. Kößl: In the administrative area – that's the difference!]] Three Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior have made it possible to make a flooring ceremony on the soft earth, namely, interestingly every time before national elections, in Traiskirchen. Mr Eine, we were there even once, so now there is no childbirth, but it doesn't matter. And now we are in the situation that the reform of executive services required by all has been carried out. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we talked about personnel savings, one has always said: Don't worry about a couple of Schantingers. So so much for historical truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, I can therefore say thank you for being so calmly driven by this project “Team 04”. [[Abg. Gaál: Thousands of posts saved!]] The fears of overcoloring, that so many reds that existed before, now come on red and white red, you all had. This has not proved true. It was proved to be a consistent team. Mrs Bundesminister, I thank you for doing good work in the name and in the interests of Austrian security policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19198	As the next speaker, Mrs Pepper is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19220	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I also do not want to thank all officials of the executives on behalf of my group from this point of view for their work for the benefit of the population. [[General condolences.]] At the moment, there is a certain amount of unrest and upheaval in this professional group. Many are wondering how the new executive reform will continue and whether they will be personally affected. When ordering the state police commanders, your statement, Mrs. Federal Minister, you did not know which party they belong to, has already irritated me a little. So quite honestly: An appointment of such important persons, and you do not inform yourself in advance about the proposed candidates, I do not take this from you. [[Abg. That's unimaginable for the SPÖ!]] You're not a political greenhorn anymore. I think you already have a lot of experience in politics. Unfortunately, the following needs to be identified: Her predecessor, Strasser, has done a good job for the ÖVP. Just to remember: Three army commanders, from Lower Austria, Styria and Burgendland, were sent by the then Minister of the Interior shortly before the election in autumn 2002 in a night and fog action in forced board. We have not forgotten that yet, ladies and gentlemen. Even though the recognition of the Constitutional Court has made these forced retirements of the three national army commanders forschmied, Kanz and Scheifinger illegal, the party political goal has nevertheless been to accommodate your people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the case of the burgenish police commander Koch, who is to be attributed to the ÖVP, I do not like to call him a full-blood police officer. I know Brigadier Cook personally very good, and he is certainly best qualified for this task. Nevertheless, you cannot deny the overall picture. 13: 5 is not a dispute and not a balanced personal package, but a black one! [[Abg. Kößl: Think back, there was only SPÖ at the SPÖ! There was no chance of another man!]] The merger of police and gendarmerie is of concern to many officials, especially the elderly, irritable and insecure. There and there I was told about Mobbing, where younger officials are trying to make life difficult for the elderly. Unfortunately, party politics also plays a major role in this. I think all of us, and especially those who make decisions here, should do everything they can to ensure that all officials find a job where they feel comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19282	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19303	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is the safest country in the world. This is undisputed, not to discuss away and only reachable, because it is just what belongs together, because good, excellent budget policies are made, and especially because good and highly motivated officials work in the interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're such a nice guy, but stick to the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, you can convince yourself of this motivation, because we do not dye our police, even if it claims to be Mr Kaipel in a press release. There's still – you're amazed! – four national police commanders to be assigned to you. I know it used to be different, too. I can remember my early days in the Gendarmerie. There was no national army commander or police director at all, who would have been non-promising SPÖler, because without SPÖ membership you became impossible at the executive until 2000. [[Abg. Gaál: Tirol!]] But we take the best, and this creates employee satisfaction, motivation and thus security for the people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And so crime in Austria is permanently falling: 5 percent in February, almost 9 percent in Vienna. In parallel, the education rate increased by 1.5 percent. These are figures which are achieved by a consistent employee-friendly and target-oriented policy of our Lady's Minister and which you cannot discuss away. We also see that a maximum of officials work in the field. This is another success factor: plus 500 officials by the merger and almost a thousand officials from next year on, because they have completed and are expelled. [[Abg. Parnigoni: And what do we do with the pensioners?]] But also in refugee policy, my colleague, is doing well. In addition to the already high budgetary resources for refugee care, there is additional empowerment of over € 50 million when they are needed. This is the same way that we remain the safest and above all one of the most humane countries in the world, thanks to the policy of our Federal Minister and thanks to the work of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19376	The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19397	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Mr Kapeller, the new photos that you have spoken so greatly, will cover just now the number of people who are going to retire this year. - So much for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, I have very little time, so only a few sentences on the budget. I think this budget is not a good budget for security in Austria. It is a savings budget which does not meet the requirements and challenges of our time and which cannot satisfy the fundamental right of people to safety in any way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is €8 million less than in the previous year. 952 security officers are saved. I ask you, Mrs Minister: How do you intend to guarantee security? How do you want to increase security? How do you want to meet the requirements and the new tasks? And how do you, in particular, want to counteract the terrifying low levels of education? – Nice words are too few, Mrs. Minister! However, I would like to address one thing for which I am unfortunately not able to thank. Mr. Pack, unlike your district, in the Amstetten district, a gender army post will be closed, namely the Gendarmerieposten in Ennsdorf. I think this is a strategic “master achievement” of your resort, Mrs. Federal Minister, because this post was renewed and renovated in 2002. The amount of work in this post has increased enormously, almost 150 percent since 2000, and the number of posts is in a community with a very future operating area that has experienced a great expansion, and it is also hoped that there will be an increase in people. That is why, I think, these items should not be closed, but they should even be considered in order to systemize these posts. Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, you promised in your speech that you will be taking a picture on the spot of the circumstances found by the officials there. – I would like to thank these officials there for their great work, because they are really doing great things. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have spoken to you, Mrs Minister, and I have invited you to come to my district. They have also come, unfortunately only to a music school opening and not to me to the post Ennsdorf, which I think is very bad. I am also very sorry that, despite your first announcement in a conversation with me in which you told me that you could perhaps make a detour to Ennsdorf if you are in Upper Austria, you do not want to come to Ennsdorf. Although there is little hope that this post will not be locked up, as you have told me, and you do not want to make the officials wrong hopes, I still believe that it would be worth a trip to Ennsdorf to express appreciation to the officials there. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There's no such thing as this is the subject of a budget speech!]] [[Abg. Gaál: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé) It's about locking up!]] – It is certainly about the budget, Mrs Colleague! There, Mrs Federal Minister, you could take a picture of the actual circumstances that officials there find, then you could make the announcement made in your speech of departure, and then above all you could contribute to ensuring security in the rural area, security for the rural population.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19481	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19503	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! ==References== The Civil Service Reform Commission adopted its report and recommendations this year. In the near future, three key points were raised in the debate on this reform. The Civil Service Reform Commission proposes to shorten civil service from 12 to 9 months, plus a voluntary option to extend it by three months. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Too long! This is not an equality with military service!]] Why! What are the main reasons for this? I should like to quote this one briefly. It is nothing else possible from today's number to tomorrow. We had around 10,000 civilian servants in 2004. If we were to cut civil service to six months, we would need the double number of civil servants. We have only around 36 000 people. 2005: 36 091, 2006: 37 108, 2015: 33 683. That's high. We need general military service so that we can also hold on to civil service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] The Federal Government clearly states that at least 25 000 suitable men are needed, even in the Reform Commission. Tell me now, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, how this should be possible! We must import young men so that we can have our presence and civil service, which is necessary – we confess to that! – can be maintained? [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Is that a suggestion?]] That means that this is not possible from today to tomorrow. The Civil Service Reform Commission's proposal to shorten civil service to nine months also involves a majority of civil servants, namely, 3 266. That's all exactly calculated. In other words, it will not be easy to provide the additional number of civil servants from today to tomorrow. Furthermore, international comparisons have shown that only a gradual change will lead to good results in these areas. The Civil Service Reform Commission recommends that, after three years of entry into force, a report on the impact of the new system and the resulting possibilities for further development of civil service should be drawn up. – I believe that this is a good proposal. The second point, which is also linked to the financial situation, is the attraction measures, which Mrs Haidlmayr has also mentioned. This is about the flat rate remuneration and the fee. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's too little!]] The flat-rate compensation is set out in the proposal of the Civil Service Reform Commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There's inside – I quote –: ‘In principle, a level of attractiveness between civil and present services should be sought, for example in the case of basic remuneration, which currently amounts to € 256.’ This is an equality with the presence service. There's already in the report. In addition, the Commission recommends the development of a food situation for all civil servants common to all institutions, taking into account the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. I believe that this report really has a good basis. We must also say – and here, Mrs Federal Minister, I give you the right to do so – who pays for it. The mayor's damage from Salzburg has written a letter to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in which he expressed his concern that this would be an additional burden on the municipalities and cities and countries, because it would, of course, cost more if one turned on these screws. They all know that the flat-rate remuneration of around 8 million euros is due to the Civil Service Reform Commission, and that the additional fee, which is to be raised to 13.60 €, is due to an additional cost of 29 million euros. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This costs less than the advertising of two ministries!]] In conclusion, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: To do this, funding must be ensured! You are cordially invited to consult with us on the proposal that the Federal Minister will bring to Parliament. I hope that, in the sense of civil service, the proposal that the Civil Service Reform Commission has prepared will also be implemented. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19598	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19620	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Allow me to make a fundamental comment: It won't be better! Its budget for the first time is significantly less than three percent of GDP. No one can say that's a good budget. This can be found in your own documents. Second comment: Thank you, Mrs. Minister for your clarification in the afternoon. There are 1 000 sites less in comparison to 2000. So we don't need to discuss, because that's how our numbers are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] Whether this is good or bad, we can discuss it so often, Mr Kößl, and we both know that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kößl.]] We are also proud that Austria is a safe country. This is due exclusively to the superhuman achievements of our colleague's office, dear friends! Thank you! That's a big deal once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, now to the invitation. – I know you took over this place in a difficult time. Much was already stated, but, as I think, we must equip the executive with the framework conditions that it needs quite simply. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It does nothing to tell each other: That's where we save a bissel, and then we save a bissel! If we go out to the co-operation, dear friends, then we see how it provides service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] You see, Günther. There can be no mention of “all are happy. ” I can do that. do not perceive. But you know that yourself, to talk about it, we can save ourselves. I think, in the interests of our people and in the interest of the executive's colleagueship, we should consider whether we should not improve in some areas, as we say so beautifully. In my opinion, this would be an investment in the right direction. I think people expect this from us. Mrs Minister, I would like to say one more thing: We have had the opportunity, several times, to discuss with you about the problem of our district over fractionality, if I may formulate it in this way, together with the bra. I would really ask you to bring the problem of Traiskirchen to a quick solution. The people in this city, but also those in this region, far beyond Traiskirchen, have now been burdened for decades. I do not want to quote what has already been said in this context, namely: Not there and not there! I'm just saying, ladies and gentlemen: Since 1956, the city of Traiskirchen has done superhuman things with its population for the Republic of Austria, and I believe that we should, together – and I believe, my friend, Christoph, is for this – in the interest of this region, finally bring this humane issue a positive solution. [[Abg. Cainz nodds with his head]] Mrs Minister, we are already proud that we are currently at 700 people, but you know what the framework conditions we have. I'll invite you all: Let us solve this problem in the interests of humanity!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19707	Next item is the report by Mr Dr Liechtenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19728	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Internal security is certainly also a dimension of freedom. The growing willingness to violence in Europe is a consequence of the sword of ethical ties in society. This and the international and organised crime threaten the security of citizens. They undermine the legal awareness of individuals and the ability of the state to protect them effectively. We must therefore be determined to defend the state's ability to act on all sides against the destructive power of crime. Only a legally strong state can guarantee liberalism and freedom in society. We have a good and strong executive, and that must be supported. Internal security is not only the prerequisite of freedom, it also has a social dimension. Growing crime threatens to divide society: in a small part of society that can buy security, and in a large part of society that has to fear lack of state authority for physical integrity, property and wealth. We need equal security for all citizens. Police and justice must have all the necessary and adequate tools to combat crime effectively – and this will also take the right steps – because it is always necessary to take decisive action against crime and violence. Right-free rooms are not allowed to exist. In this context, I believe that two points are important. First: Victim protection is against crime. There must be no incitement of criminal offences that it creates the feeding ground for crime and reduces the thresholds. Secondly, The punishment is supposed to follow the act on the foot. It is therefore necessary to relieve justice and to be able to speed up procedures at any time. Crimes and crimes must not be rewarded. That is why we must always work for a powerful, motivated and authority-recognised police and fully support the Ministry of the Interior in these matters. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19774	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19795	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In my opinion, my previous speaker also said the right thing in his analysis. Only: Unfortunately, the equipment is missing in many areas. Mrs. Minister, when you presented the new Land Police Commanders and their alternate on Sunday, I had to find that only one woman was below. It was, as it were, a group picture with lady. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] Now I ask you, Mrs Minister: How does it look to the subordinates, where 5,000 jobs can be re-occupied? There have been a lot of posts with young men – especially with men! .......................................................................................................................................................................... For example, we will have another twenty years of these old supposed structures, and that is a problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: You really have no idea! It's a game of mourning!]] Mr Kößl, 17 : 1 is the relationship between men and women! That's a big problem! Mrs. Minister, you said there were more police on the street, and you mentioned a number.– I'll tell you: The situation with us in Tyrol is not satisfactory. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Mr Wittauer listens very carefully, he will confirm it to me. [[Abg. Wittauer: I don't even lock the door with us in Tyrol, so sure it is there!]] We had great problems this winter in Westendorf. There was a trade after business. But there's only one string in the Brixental. You know there are a lot of guests in the Kitzbühel district. Many tourists stay in this area. It was simple and just no police on site. What did you do in the municipality of Westendorf? We have had to put up with ten private servants, I say, with a lot of respect. [[Abg. Miedl: I don't believe that!]] That's what I'm telling you: The monopoly of violence is rightly in the hands of the federal government. And that's how it's supposed to stay! [[Abg. Miedl: Exactly!]] There's nothing left for private politicians. But the police need the appropriate equipment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another example: In my hometown Innsbruck, five officials are now to be equipped with extended powers, namely officials from the city's collection office. This is not possible, we know that is competing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] This is not possible because it is against the law. It is against the Constitutional Law, against the Security Police Act and against the Administrative Criminal Law. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kößl.]] Look at this! I want the monopoly of violence to remain where it belongs, namely to the Federal Police, in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: We need progress in these areas too!]] Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like to say to you: In my opinion, this budget lacks, above all, one thing: the corresponding attention to crime prevention, to crime prevention. [[Abg. Wittauer: In Innsbruck we had a great success against the drug dealers!]] For this, more money should be available, whether for intervention agencies on the one hand or for criminal policy advice on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19947	The next item is the speech by Mr Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19968	Mr President. Minister! It has already been said several times, but I would like to repeat it again, because it sees the people outside like it: Yes, Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, and people feel that way too! That is why I would like to thank, on the one hand, the competent Minister of State and, on the other hand, the many thousands of officials who are responsible for this security outside. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, it is also true that the executive has to deal with changed conditions. In particular, the executive has to fight for the fact that crime has changed a lot. That is why it is true that the politically responsible minister – including her predecessor already in advance – gives the right answers with the strategy or concept “team04”. I believe that modern structures are in demand, and that is where I come to speak of an example of regional reference. With us in the south of Lower Austria there is the Eastern deployment group. These are the right answers to the emergence of a more flexible and faster crime, where today entire tires come with cars. It is important to give the right answers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A word on crime prevention too. The criminal police advisory service is taking a very important position. Now some sentences to the refugee camp Traiskirchen. The colleague and also friend Otto Pendlhat already said it, and I too can say: Yes, we have a good cooperation in the district, that's true! The Minister also has good cooperation with many heads of state. I thank her for that too. I also believe that we have to relieve Traiskirchen. In this context, I thank you for the new asylum law. That is the right answer, also mentioned in practice. We can say that because we live with it. Again: I think that's the right answer. Thanks also for the fact that Traiskirchen currently has “only” – under quotation marks – 750 asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20021	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20042	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! There are two critical points here in great haste. First of all, on civil service – Mr Wöginger has already mentioned it –: If civil service reform is to take place in 2006, it will incur higher costs. These costs have in no way been taken into account. I note: There are three possibilities: Either this reform will not come in 2006 or one has forgotten to budget the additional costs resulting from it, or one wants to put these costs to the support organisations so to speak. Perhaps you can explain this to us today, Mrs Bundesminister. I would like to address a second point here. Staff expenditure will be reduced by 12.1 million €. - We've heard this today. – Despite high crime, despite poor intelligence rates, rigorous personnel are saved here. This is simply incomprehensible, and I can quote here: We feel that outside the regions! We realize that something is happening, which is not supposed to be! Wherever Gendarmerieposten has been closed – that was already 120 in the ÖVP/FPÖ era – safety has not improved. It is precisely the opposite that has actually occurred. Above all, the subjective sense of security has deteriorated. People feel that, they notice that, and they do not deceive themselves. The facts of why this is so speak for themselves: In 2000, there were about 500,000 crimes at a 51.4 percent education rate. Now, five years later, there's a dramatic increase: 650 000 crimes are compared with a 38 percent investigation rate. – I say quite clearly here: Austria has become more insecure! – This is ultimately the result of your missing security policy, which makes it impossible for us to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20078	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20100	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the course of today's debate, it has been shown that there are constantly new threats, dangers and, of course, problems in the field of safety. The fact is that there is a strong security need in Austria, and the fact is that this, of course, brings new requirements and challenges to our security system. We must constantly analyze, act and react so that Austria can keep its standards and Austria remains the safest country in Europe and worldwide. In order to meet the safety standards, we need the courage to reform. This federal government has addressed these reforms. We need slender, powerful structures. We need modern and modern methods. The challenges for the next future are safe in the area of drug abuse, where the introduction of protection zones has given rise to positive experiences. In the near future, of course, the new asylum law, which brings new challenges, and precisely the implementation of the "team04" reform, the pooling of police and gendarmerie, which was initiated, launched and, of course, called for by the Court of Auditors' report. The 2006 budget guarantees security in Austria in the future. No posts are closed, as has been claimed more often today. There's no redundancies. There's no security emergency. Security is a constant challenge. rang, we're dealing with this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20139	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20160	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I just want to make one clear: One of my previous speakers has said that we should stop talking the executive bad all the time. – I make it clear: We are not talking about the executive, but about the conditions under which the executive has to work, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact is that the work of executives, the pensum and the framework conditions they have available is a huge – not to say: an extreme – burden. If I look at the example of Upper Austria, I see that there are 200 planning sites missing. Mrs. Minister, I am already aware that 95 planning positions or resumptions in Upper Austria have now been added, but 105 planning posts are still missing. Not included are the planning places where the staff retire. Also these planning sites cannot be re-occupied immediately. In addition, the change in organisation, Mrs Minister, brings enormous uncertainty among employees because no or very little information is provided. And the worst thing that can happen in a farm when uncertainty takes place is that the information does not come where it belongs, namely to the staff. Staff need to know, especially when 5,000 planning posts are being advertised at the middle and lower management levels, in which direction the change of organisation is going. The questions are: Where can I apply? What will my service path look like? Mrs Minister, I cannot imagine that as a woman, you continue to apply such a state of disinformation. As a conclusion, I would like to point out that the staff of the Altheim Gendarmerie Post have been waiting for a new building for two years. In contrast, it was praised that the Gendarmerieposten Rohrbach could be opened at Lafnitz. I ask you, finally, take this into consideration! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20207	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the advisory group IV of the Federal proposal. This includes Chapter 11 of the Federal Estimate in 830 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:46:15]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20255	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Cap, colleagues in relation to the setting up of an investigation committee on the award of the project Stadium Klagenfurt. As this request has now been distributed to all Members, reading by the author does not need to be done. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20357	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20384	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Football Championship is one of the events on which Austria is working proudly. We are in danger of this European Championship being prevented by perfect dilettantism and ultimately also by criminal machinations or because of which it cannot take place. Today, the decision of the Independent Administrative Senate in Carinthia, which clearly speaks of a jurisdiction of the Independent Administrative Senate in Carinthia, is not given, because in this matter the Federal Government is, so to speak, a builder. There are, of course, some things coming to the covenant! ==References====External links== In December 2004 between the Graz architect Hermann Eisenköck and some representatives of the Bauholding STRABAG, where Eisenköck recorded in a written record that he was alerted to the fact that the award procedure was not coherent, but that all documents of this award procedure were available to the construction group. – After all, he held that in writing. In addition, he noted that the reason was that – that this was the subject of discussion – that this construction process should be guided by the fact that the STRABAG company should receive the award. It has been mentioned that one of the reasons was that money had already flown towards party financing and that, therefore, it should not be understood that the award of the contract should not be made to the company STRABAG, which was literally called the “card company” and should therefore be preferred. Ladies and gentlemen! After all, this is the accusation of illegal party funding, which is the allegation of unjust award, which is at least the accusation of corruption and of criminal machinations, which are actually already on 1st. December should have led to the termination of this award procedure. The Federal Ministry was then contacted, and the Federal Ministry finally paid an advertisement on the question of suspected party financing, abuse of office and infringement of Austrian contract law. All these ads have been returned with a statement that, of course, can no longer vote now, because it is clear that the covenant is the client, the federal government is liable, and it should ultimately come as a result of illegal influence that a company should be preferred. These are no more little things! These are allegations of abuse of office, corruption and illegal party funding. And if these accusations do not have a legal dimension, they have a political dimension, because your government partner is at the heart of these accusations of party funding. I wonder, In what direction did this party funding go? Maybe already in the new party? - You're going to look at this more closely. Today, the decision has been made that the Carinthian UVS is not responsible. That is to say, there will be a decision by the Federal Contracting Authority. If there is a decision by the Federal Contracting Authority that it also considers itself not responsible, then the question will be to ask: Will there be a legal procedure to save this stadium? The building lion Hazelsteiner said yesterday in a television interview: The karren is in such a way that it is likely that no more will be awarded to the Klagenfurt stadium. There are two options now. The first possibility is that the award procedure will be terminated and there is therefore no public award, but perhaps one is working to make a private-law model that will lead to the company Haselsteiner again, because it is under private law, so to speak, to do so in an independent pre-financing way. Then one would have bypassed the entire federal award, and it would be hard to question if there were not really any party funds. Then: It was already in an interview on the 14th. Feber said, by the chairman of the awarding commission, that the documents were passed on to a daily newspaper in Carinthia by the country of Carinthia in order to break this award procedure. Should a private contract now be awarded to the company STRABAG, this distribution of the information could have been planned by a long-term basis to prevent the award of the information under contract law. At the latest at that time, the Federal Chancellor knew that this award procedure is subject to serious shortcomings. He also had to know that he was a client. Then: Who used this award commission? – This award commission has been set up by the Federal Chancellor and has been stimulated, selected and used by the Federal Chancellery. At least at that time, the Chancellor was aware that he was responsible for this. Now I wonder if he already knew: Why didn't he refund an advertisement at the prosecutor's office at a time when he already knew there was suspicion of illegal machinations here? – It is now about clarifying the role of the Federal Chancellor in this question, all the more so, as the football association said yesterday, that the Federal Chancellor does not value the fact that one looks around a place of replacement, but that one should wait for what comes out in Klagenfurt. This is, of course, a direct involvement of the Federal Chancellor in this award procedure, and in the end it is more than justified by a political dimension, which is a committee of inquiry, because of the fact that party financing suspects, corruption suspicions and, ultimately, other illegal practices than suspicions exist! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: But it took a long time for you...!]] Should the STRABAG now come to the train via a private-law model in this award procedure, then of course the role of the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Chancellery will also be given a very different dimension where one asks himself: [[Abg. Grillitsch: I believed it's over!]] Why don't you refund an advertisement? Why not give it to those organs to investigate? – Either you want to hide something or you are not yet aware of this political dimension in their effects. You make fun of Austria when you ‘satter’ this European Championship. It is also about the dimension of liability. The Swiss stadiums are already under construction; they would then have to all be financed by the Austrian Federal Government, at least that expansion that would have gone beyond normal expansion. The liability for this compensation also applies to the federal government, because there is a declaration of commitment by the Federation to the UEFA that the responsibility for the construction of these stages is assumed here. That is to say, the Chancellor should be interested in the fact that there is an investigation of the machinations, because otherwise Austria is made ridiculous and he also makes Austria ridiculous in the world, if one lays a foundation stone here, so to speak, for the European Championship not to take place in Austria. You're still taking this on the light shoulder. But if the European Championship does not take place and if all the liabilities are to be struck, then you will have to hide the role of the Federal Chancellor, who is always here to wait. I also believe that a committee of inquiry will then bring light into the dark and show why, during the award procedure, one has so much resisted the investigation of these machinations, which clearly conceals the suspicion of corruption, the suspicion of party funding, but also the suspicion of illegal award. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] It would be more than appropriate to set up an investigation committee on this procedure. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20457	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each. ÖVP Mercedes driver, careful: Should You want to drive home today, make sure you have the car rental. One of these has been handed over to me. For a finder's wage to the corresponding employee of the house, he is here for inspection. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20508	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think, Mr Wittmann, that was now a construction of speculations and suspicions which have no basis on and on itself. I think that simply cannot be the basis of an investigation committee. We do not need that, and I can clearly say from the outset that we reject it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But in one, we are sure all of them agree: We want to perform the 2008 European Football Championship in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria is known as a perfect host country for sporting events and for the completion of perfect sports events around the world. We would also like to demonstrate this at the “Euro 2008”. Three quarters of all stadiums – Vienna, Salzburg and Innsbruck – are ready and can start with the expansion at any time. If we all work together and if we see that this also works in Klagenfurt, then we will put the fourth stadium, Mr. Puswald, on our feet without problems. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Tell your mayor Scheucher in Klagenfurt...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You are to blame that...!]] The policy, Mr President, has the task of doing everything that the Euro 2008 takes place, and must not allow it to be prevented. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You have the job! You're in government!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: With all due understanding for your political actionism: The European Championship and sport are too bad for this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] We're used to bringing something forward. Ladies and gentlemen, team spirit is in demand for this football Europe championship! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The European Football Championship has consistently positive aspects: 6 600 jobs, value added effects of € 87 million, impulses for tourism and sport. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You should recognize the seriousness of the situation once!]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Don't you want that too? – We'll be on the 21st. In April, a four-party proposal was also submitted to the Sports Committee. This football Europe championship, ladies and gentlemen, is a huge chance for Austria, and you know nothing better to do than criminalize all of this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's keep the ball in play! We don't need an investigation committee! What we need is team spirit and joint effort, the will to do everything that this fourth stadium, the stadium in Klagenfurt is built. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] So let's keep the ball in the game, as I said! Then we'll be 7th. June 2008 is a perfect host for this football European championship!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20643	The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20665	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a consensual statement: I think it is undisputed that if a government in a country maims a once-allocated European Championship, then this whole government can say goodbye. – I think that is once undisputed! If you look at tomorrow's newspapers, you'll find headlines like: “From for EM stadium is getting closer!”, “EM 2008 in Austria threatens to fail stadium affairs”. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the situation surrounding the EM stadium in Klagenfurt is increasingly similar to that of the FPÖ, the government and the orange alliance. I'm now making a consensual statement: It has always been undisputed for sports policy and geopolitical reasons that the southern region of Austria will be a venue for the European Championship. What about the Styria? What about Graz?, many ask. – I say: It's been a long time since the ÖVP-Steiermark murched and stunned! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] Let's have a look at the football! – Dr. Haider thought of himself sometime: That's young, that's casual, maybe you can also win some voice with football. Then he became president of the FC Carinthia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka.]] The FC Carinthia soon went down, you might want to say that. In this time, promises, agreements, mussels in connection with the EM stadium fall, and that is actually the origin of the disaster. In fact, the investigation should begin there, because football costs money – seaports by the way too! – and as the party finances of the FPÖ look forward to, you'll still be taking a lively lead! Ladies and gentlemen! What does Dr. Haider do when he's in distress? He takes the flight, for example to Canada, or he takes the flight forward, and – and now it comes, ladies and gentlemen! – he himself calls for an investigation committee. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Who's Haider? He has nothing to say!]] ==References====External links== February 2005 is related to the EM-Stadion Klagenfurt: “A committee of inquiry is also a way for Haider.” – Now something funny, I have to tell you: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You already told that three times!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé had quite a democratic attack yesterday on the urgent question. She said: It's about control! It's about the free mandate! You can't make the government the wall! All representatives are supposed to do control work! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's it!]] – That's all O-Ton Partik-Pablé. Ladies and gentlemen of the Orange Party, Vulgo FPÖ Club: The upper orange has called for an investigation committee, and you yourself sing the Song of Democracy. Voices So you're going to, or are you falling over? I'd rather tap second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20740	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20761	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would have expected Mr Wittmann, as chairman of the Constitutional Committee, to have at least a minimum degree of confidence in the Austrian rule of law and not to intervene in ongoing proceedings, not even with an investigation committee, if there are only suspicions and suspicions, but no evidence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] The decisions of the independent courts must now be taken in ongoing proceedings, or the first decision of the Federal Commissioner before further decisions can be taken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] It would be completely unreasonable and not in line with the law if any further parliamentary action were taken now. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: We are now talking about a committee of inquiry and not about justice!]] On the one hand, there is no intervention into an ongoing procedure, on the other hand, double-tracks are not targeted, on the other hand, the whole would only be associated with additional costs and would not bring us forward in the matter. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's right!]] – That is why we will not agree to such an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20826	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20847	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate contribution of the ÖVP, it was strongly appealed to leave the ball in play. – To this end, I would like to say the following: It would require a committee of inquiry to find the ball that you believe is still in play. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's incredible what you want us to do here! That's really incredible! They're talking about a stadium that hasn't been built yet. This is an award project. At any rate, the entire project, the award procedure, has dematerialized as much as there may be no stadium at all at all! In principle, there is no reason at all for this, because that is indeed serious. I can only interpret this litany, which he has given the best about the good here, one last time with the previous speaker from the ÖVP, so that this is obviously the danger moment when we decide what to do if you continue to drive as you have done in recent times. It was a damage balance of the special class that you have preached to us here, and this is indeed averting it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is averted, and we will also make a proposal to that effect. I'll tell you: A committee of inquiry has nothing to do with constantly waiting for the decision of a court or otherwise, for example, for which control body, UVS Carinthia or federal award office, namely already in the sense of an appeal agency, is declared responsible or not. What is the situation like? Today the UVS Carinthia has declared itself not responsible. What does that mean? The question that the issuing authority obviously cannot be the city of Klagenfurt is thus answered precisely in this form. Flashback – it's not a week ago –: State Secretary Schweitzer is considered responsible. One does not wonder what – for sport anymore, because he does not know what to do. But – which is bad enough –: In reply to his question to the SPÖ colleagues, the Federal Chancellor also said that he was in possession of an opinion which gave him the certainty that, of course, the city of Klagenfurt was the issuing authority or authority, so that the mayor was responsible, which I even praised at this point for his efforts. – Now this has been deprived of him. So: A State Secretary and a Federal Chancellor claim that everything is palletti and that is responsible there. The BKA has written its Constitutional Service, which has occasionally enjoyed such advice for the Federal Chancellor and for the State Secretary established there. In the BKA opinion, the BKA representative is explained that not they but the others are responsible. The others say: We may be in charge. And the first time an independent body decides something, it says: No, they're not at all! This is the typical state of the government as a whole: They say: It's not us, it's not you! Question: Then who? Who if not who now? That's what he's going to do. Who if not – and now in the choir! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A project that has not been implemented has never been so symbolically an instance of what it looks like in the Republic. And it's no coincidence that the stadium should be in Carinthia, only there's nothing left, as you can see! It won't be any more! There is a cataclysed stadium, and You're not able to get the whole thing up there with a bunch of federal grants! That's the state, that's Austria, that's Carinthia! We're saving the next word game. No BZÖ-Hinweise, nothing, it would be a lot reasonable right now to this state, but let's keep that, in view of the colleagues of the liberal club, as it is now provisionally stated. In addition, I will use my last two minutes elsewhere, namely: A committee of inquiry is then necessary when it comes to political responsibility and if certain things are obviously more or less deliberately unexplained, or should perhaps not be clarified in court, because there has long been a suspicion that justice has also been affected. [[Abg. Neudeck: We do not make committees, because you always interrupt them!]] Don't start yelling right now – I'm saying this prophylactically now; the last time you did this exactly at this point! – that I would call into question the independence of justice. [[Abg. There's no one yelling at all!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You always say the same!]] I like to repeat this argument because you need a sickering process! It is about the following process: Someone who stands for a bidder goes to a member of the awarding commission, brings hundreds of thousands of euros – it is not quite clear whether it is about millions – into the argument and says to the member of the awarding commission: It's crazy that we don't get the project! - Where is it logged? Not with us! In the Ministry of Interior! Nevertheless, no procedure is being carried out! If you do not think anything about the fact that members of the Awarding Commission are obviously to be bribed here, then this is your problem and expression of your intervening understanding of political culture! Even...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20933	The final sentence, please! [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Cap's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. [[20:11:22]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-04-06-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20990	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 579/A to 583/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2835/J to 2845/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Mrs Cap, ladies and gentlemen, has been put to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 7. April 2005, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template 830, B.C.E.: Federal Finance Act 2006 together with investments (840 d.B.). For advice: Advisory Group VII: Social security, generations and consumer protection; Advisory Group XII: military affairs, Advisory Group XI: Finance as well as text of the BFG and establishment plan. There is no Question Time at this part-session. This meeting is closed.
