ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please come into the hall and take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please report on the beginning of our work. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Dear colleagues! Please register, Your Honor. Please register. Please turn on the registration system. [[10:07:57]] A total of 319 national deputies were registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. First question, I'd like to invite you. We're going to have an oath. Honourable People's Deputies, on May 16, 2016, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected to the election of Ukrainian National Deputies on October 26, 2014 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Biloview of Oxana Volodymyrovna, which is included in the election list of the Party "Block of Petr Prashenko". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. I ask all my colleagues to pay attention and silence in the hall at the time of making an oath. And in order to make an oath to the rostrum, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilozur Oksana Volodymyrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u2	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Ukrainian Community! I, Oxana's BIO Volodymyr, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National deputy of Ukraine, Oksana Bilozer. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that outside our Ukrainian Parliament lies the wounded soul and body of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian society. They look for a point of support in themselves, in their families, in their families, and in our Ukrainian state. Only the Ukrainian Parliament provides an answer to what Ukraine will be like. I am a consolidating element of our Ukrainian Parliament and I am counting on constructive cooperation. And may the Lord help us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana, for your kind words. Fruitful work in our plenary room. Dear colleagues, today in Ukraine on May 15, honor the Day of Remembrance of Victims of Political Repression. This is hard to imagine, but Western researchers call the dreaded figures of the Stalin regime in the Soviet Union, victims of the Stalin regime: between 45 million and 80 million people were repressed and killed. The empire, whether Russian or Soviet, used the same methods in relation to Ukrainians. Representatives of the nation, leaders of the nation, and all who could resist and fight the invader killed or sent to Siberia. Perhaps there is no family in Ukraine that is not affected by this tragedy, as is my family that has been in Siberia for more than 10 years. Today, like 80 years ago, Russia is persecuting Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars in occupied territories. But I'm convinced that we will stand and resist the aggressor, and all the Ukrainian lands will be liberated. And I would like to open today’s plenary session with a moment of silence in remembrance of all the victims of political repression. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, I also want to read a message that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Announcement: "In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Rules of the Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the eighth call of 16 May 2016, I report on the election of the head of the party "Block of Peter Prashenka" by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Greeniv Igor Aleksioyovich. Colleagues, welcome to Mr. Igor, our colleague, with your election. [[Applause]] You need a job, managing the biggest factions. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. Colleagues, please record the performance. Please record. From the Self-Help faction of Georges. Please take the word and pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the prime minister of Ukraine recently made a very important statement: that more access to Ukraine's market for European quality should be given to medical devices and, above all, lower prices for medical supplies. And the Self-Help faction will definitely support such an initiative by the government, but on one condition: if a really big and bright goal is set in the proposed bill. What matters is not what is said, but how the government tries to implement it. Bill 4484 cannot be adopted in the manner in which it is submitted by the government. It makes European quality medical devices even less accessible. It also offers access to the market of Ukraine, which can flow, medical devices registered in European Union countries, but registered 10-15 years ago, which are no longer used in those countries, and which have no therapeutic effect. Nor does it mean that registered medical devices are manufactured in countries of the European Union, the United States, Canada, Switzerland, and Australia. And that's very important, because the main thing in the patient's medicine is that the medicine has to be safe, effective and quality. The cost of medical supplies is extremely important. And the Self-Help faction requires the government to finalize and amend Bill 4484 immediately, to provide for a simplified registration of medical devices registered in the European Union under a centralised procedure. It is also necessary to implement a reference pricing mechanism, i.e. to set the highest cost of medicines beyond that limit, which will be compared to the cost of the same medicines in European countries, and to prohibit any increase in such prices. It is also important to foresee and create a possible mechanism for effective reimbursation, i.e. compensation for partial or full cost of medical supplies, such as hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, pensioners, low-income populations. Because you know that every day more and more people start living outside of poverty, and the state is obliged to take responsibility for such people, especially when their lives and health are directly related to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u6	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u7	I would also like to point out to the Prime Minister of Ukraine that, following yesterday's meeting with the self-help factions, I request that we set up a meeting on all the important issues as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u8	Ribczynski Evgen Yuriovich, "Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u9	Dear Ukrainian people, the honorable Presidium, the distinguished national MPs! A little lyric at the beginning of the sessional week. Former IMF chief, Mr. Rodrigo Rato, has recently come to light in a panama scandal we know. He decided to eliminate his offshore accounts, and he took them out, think about it, 3 billion 700 million euros, which is actually 4.5 billion dollars. Where does an ex-IMF have that kind of money, we can only guess, because they've been very helpful to underdeveloped countries like ours. Now from lyric to prose. Today, the IMF mission is still working alongside us. I'll remind you that the IMF was lending Ukraine's economy over $6.5 billion last year. Well, now it's prose. The transition to market prices for gas is also driven, they say, yes, our government says it's driven by the fact that this is an IMF requirement. Now for the question. What's the economy for? They were dating the economy. The government takes and borrows billions of dollars to pay for our children, and the government takes and doubles the price of gas for the population. Instead of creating additional jobs, instead of stimulating domestic gas, instead of reforming Naftogazu, instead of raising social standards, the actual destruction of the nation by energy slavery is taking place. Today, the average Ukrainian family is expected to pay nearly 50 percent of its income, gas and energy. And it's not over yet, because they're anouncing the next increase in tariffs. What kind of slavery does the IMF want to drag us into, then? What kind of slavery are the creditors dragging us into? And do they understand that there is still a war going on in Ukraine that the aggressor country is actively exporting the most powerful Ukrainian factories from occupied areas? Do they understand what it means to live on a Ukrainian subsistence minimum? And they would have lived at least our time in their European Union. Well, now a little lyric, gentlemen of the MPs. Why should we borrow at the cost of human poverty? There's a colleague on the stand, and he's standing. It's just that the question of gas so far has been gone for a week, it's not resolved, and it's not going to go away at all. Let's go back to that question. Why do we need pseudoreforms that don't change anything but make our people poorer? "The will of the people" is strongly opposed to solving budget deficits at the expense of the average citizens, because we go to people in the districts every week and we see how in the last year the standard of living has actually dropped twice or three times. Let the government exercise its skill and offer society a real program of crisis relief rather than spread out in front of borrowers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u10	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u11	It does not spread out in front of the borrowers, carrying out their unrealistic demands. Respect yourself and your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u12	Thank you. Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Boyk Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u14	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Sadly, I have to say that the situation in the country continues to deteriorate. The government has accelerated the pace of destroying the benefits of civilization for the people. The tariffs on gas, heat, and hot water were again raised. New tariffs are unsurpassed for most Ukrainians. Soon heating, electricity, and gas will be a luxury for citizens who will not be able to pay an excessive price for their use. In fact, two thirds of the population falls into the category of the underprivileged. Perhaps, realizing this, the authorities put forward a creative idea for the inhabitants of the village to give up gas and to burn houses with pine, wood, and to harvest insects. The next step of the government, apparently, would be to shoot at the fields and sew clothes from them. It is not reform, it is a return from civilization to stone age. We demand that the government's decision be reversed immediately, that consumption standards and population tariffs be reviewed, by reducing them to a minimum of twice. Last week, in Berlin, there was a meeting of ministers of foreign affairs in the Nordic format, during which the issue of the stability of the situation in Donbas was discussed. Diplomacy is better than shooting. Sadly, the situation in the eastern part of the country is becoming more and more marked by the frozen conflict. The government and parliament do nothing to solve problems. The majority of Ukrainian citizens and probably the world want peace, the territory to return to the legislative field, and people to the normal way of life. However, there is nothing in the plans for the work of the Supreme Council this week but gas, labeling, and finding enemies. Parliament has done nothing for people, since nine laws and regulations have been passed all last week. If miners and farmers worked with such efficiency, they would long have been hungry, without light and warmth. But worse yet, there is no one among these laws that deals with the economic issues that trouble the population. We demand that Parliament return to the problems of people. And we promise to do everything we can to protect people's right to a peaceful life and a worthy existence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Droeuk. He's giving the word to the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Burbaku Maxim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! On behalf of the People's Front faction, on behalf of our political power, I claim that the state is in a critical position to fund the Armed Forces. For the first time in two years, since the victory in Maidan, the defense orders have not been funded, the costs of modernization and arms have not been allocated, and the army is financed in accordance with the residual principle. I repeat, we have this situation for the first time in two years. I'm on it. At its meeting yesterday, the People's Front faction decided to appeal to the Ukrainian government to urgently develop and make changes to the 16th-year state budget in part of financing the state defence order and the modernization of military weapons. I call on Parliament to take a firm position on the continuation of the financing of the Ukrainian army at the level necessary to effectively confront the aggressor country. The Ukrainian Armed Forces currently need 3.6 billion dollars, which is 0.5 percent of the 2016 government budget. At its meeting tomorrow, the Professional Committee is obliged to consider and approve the relevant changes to the State budget. The other one. If you want to talk about where to get the money, I'm reminding you of the $1.5 billion that are on the arrested accounts of Yanukovich and his gang. Our proposal is to immediately adopt a law on confiscation and send this money to the state budget and allocate it to increase the country's security. We demand a vote in favour of this law immediately so that the country can see on the ballot board: who is in favour of the Ukrainian army, and who has come to Parliament to be the "watchdog" of Yanukovic's money. The cost, stolen by a thief and a bandit in our people, must work to protect, to protect citizens, to preserve Ukraine. The third is education. We demand the support of Bill 4524. It stands first in order of day and refers to external independent valuation in part of the financing of the WCO. This is another bill that is a test for each of us. You can block the rostrum, set up hourly political zombies in a direct talk show, bully the freedom of speech and kick opponents out of the studios, but be responsible for at least the youth and tomorrow of our country. Four. I would like to place professional provokers in this room about their false claims and report them. The People's Front stands firmly in the position that the elections in the occupied areas of Donbas are only possible after Russia's implementation of the Minsk Accords. Because in recent times, the leader of the political power of the current "wide opposition" has seemed to be willing to vote for the elections in the occupied Donbassa. I'm officially repeating the constant position of our faction. Stop hanging noodles on people's ears! First, Russia's cessation of hostilities, the release of all our hostages, the withdrawal of the occupying forces from our territory, the full restoration of the country's sovereignty over the border and all areas of Donbas and then the political settlement. This position of the People's Front was spoken dozens of times, and only the deaf didn't hear it. No elections in occupied areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u18	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u19	We can't afford to capitulate in front of the Kremlin. The execution of Putin’s decommissioning requirements would not stop but would only delay armed violence. The legalization of the Mexican quasi-State on Donbas will not save you, it will destroy the economy of the country, the dot, everything else is your hypocritical lie. Let me remind you that it is your allies in the Opposition Block who are calling for pseudo-dubs in the occupied territories. The People's Front will protect the Ukrainian army, Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Let salesmen and provocateurs keep this in mind, in which sheep’s skin is not disguised here. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Please give the next speech from the Rebirth Group of Mr. Bondar's leader.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think everyone understands that today is an extremely critical situation, that the state budget of Ukraine for this year should be reviewed very urgently and a completely new tax, customs, investment base for the formation of the 2017 budget. Now we want to pay attention, our Rebirth Group, the Rebirth Party, to a situation involving subsidies from the state budget to finance subsidies to the population for housing services. We need to review the budget urgently, and this year we've got $35 billion on this subsidy. But in the areas of Ukraine, in the cities of Ukraine, these subsidies are virtually fully used by 70, 80 percent, or 90 percent. For example, in Kharkiv, a budget of 1 billion,646 million dollars was provided for this subsidy. Unfortunately, it has already been used 85 percent by today, and another 700 million is needed to ensure that the population of Kharkiv has access to quality utilities, heating, and no problems with these salaries. The same situation took place in Odessa, where 789 million were made available, and this cost has been fully used and 420 million is not enough. What does this talk about? This suggests that, unfortunately, the past government has gone in the wrong practice and this government, this parliamentary coalition, is supporting it. When $35 billion is used on subsidies, instead of raising tariffs, to accept our tariff moratorium and to target these costs to provide energy conservation programs across Ukraine. In order to stop this year’s total lack of funds, another 24 billion will need to be found. This suggests that for the year, compensation for local budgets should amount to 60 billion dollars. In our view, however, we had to heed our suggestions, introduce a moratorium, and not raise tariffs. And these 60 billion would be directed to local budgets for energy conservation programs, energy conservation programs in utilities, residential buildings, and, given the heat economy, those 60 billion would be more economically used by the energy economy. In five years, we'd be using 300 billion dollars for energy conservation programs. Unfortunately, this practice continues. That's why we need to review this year's budget, anticipate an additional 24 billion local budgets to compensate for the housing and utility population, and that'll be fair. In general, we require these two weeks to vote on the new Tax Code, the Customs Code, the Budget Code, and to form a budget for the following year entirely on a new tax base: with reduced taxes, reduced workload on the payroll fund and with business opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Please welcome the deputy head of the Petra Prashenko faction, Oxana Prodan. On the rostrum, please. Mr. Oleg! [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Liege! Dear Mr. Oleg, we ask you to give Mrs. Oksani the opportunity to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Dear Mr. Oleg. Dear Mr. Oleg, we ask you, please, to allow the deputy head of the Peter Dustenka faction Oxani Sale to speak from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Oleg, we're here with respect, you're not joining us, we'll give you a performance from your faction. Now, please, Mrs. Oksani, allow us to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Oleg Valeriyovich, Oksana, we'll hold a meeting at 12 o'clock today on the issue of the creation of the TSC. I'm asking you to take off the voltage at the rostrum right now. At 12 o'clock, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Oleg, dear Mr. Liege! Dear Mr. Oleg, I would like to draw your attention to the faction that your faction has not been able to sign up for the performance. After. And Oksana Petrovna has the right to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We very much ask you to abide by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Work and to give the People's Deputy a right to speak now from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Oksana Prodan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, Mrs. Irina, dear colleagues, I very much wish to address you with regard to the question that we are discussing and presenting for the first time in the walls of Parliament today. Today, the All-Ukrainian Union of People's Deputies has an interfractional "Bukovina" here, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Day of Bukovina. Bukovina, Cherniewec region, is the smallest in all areas of Ukraine. At the same time, the Montenegrin region is the most tolerant, multinational and has parts of each of the other areas of Ukraine. We're all literaries, and there's a lot of bookies in the hall, and we're all inviting you to our place in the Chernivetsk region, and you can see and hear and wonder, and find out a lot of things that will be interesting for everyone who's at least interested in anything, even though they're a little bit interested in Ukraine. For those interested in history, it will be very interesting that Bukovina, the region of Chernivets, was joined into the only array of Western Ukrainian lands since the Russian-Turkish War in the 18th century. For those who consider the important economic development of Ukraine to be the most important economic development, a great and fine example will be that the Book of Vienna has given 30 years of tax vacations, without paying taxes, in order for Bukovina to develop, in order for there to be business and there to be people with an adequate standard of living. The architects will be pleased to see and be impressed by the buildings that, on the one hand, stand next to them, both in Romanian style and in Austrian style, and already in Ukrainian style, when entire streets in Cherniv are built as diplomats of Vienna, Austria, and Ukrainian architects. And of course it's a Metropolitan building, a Metropolitan residence, which is a historical monument to UNESCO. Believers of all religions will find their own interests and interests on the Book. There is the church of the ancients in the White Crincipal, there is the synagogue of Zadik in Sadgor, there are many monasteries of Orthodox. Philosophers, scientists -- absolutely everyone who studies, and who struggles for peace, love and harmony in Ukraine -- are always able to study. 65 nationalities that live together, working together and living together in the territory of Bukovina. So we invite you to the Bukovina and today we invite you to the third floor of the tower where the art of applied art is exhibited where it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds, finish, Mrs. Oksano.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u28	.where there will be an autographed session of the Bucovian writers. And so we invite you on June 15th to Bukovin before the birthday of John Mikolaychuk. Thank you very much, and the Bukovina awaits you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. From the Radical Party, he'll be out of town, not from the rostrum. Who else didn't come out of the factions? All of them. Final performance, right? More Fatherland, right? Okay. Well, now it's Easy. Then – Sobolev. Please, it's a plastic microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our faction, I would like to apologize to you for not being able to speak from the Parliamentary rostrum. But as in the opposition faction, we don't have another way out, another way to get the attention of society, the attention of Parliament to the screaming problems that are in the country today. Because as an opposition political force, we have to use this tool: blocking the parliamentary rostrum, because we have no other way of forcing the oligaric-regional majority to hear the interests of our opposition force and to solve the problems of Ukrainian citizens. We continue to block the parliamentary rostrum this week because we are insisting on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council into the investigation of corruption and the offshores of the state's highest officials. Because when you're from Ukrainian citizens. They rob people of misery like glue; farmers take the tax money; villagers are offered to give up gas, switch to goats or wood; people raise up to 7,000 dollars for gas; pensioners cannot enter the pharmacy because they cannot pay for drugs; and oncible people and adults cannot be treated. At the same time, we see President, Head of the National Bank, Minister of Finance Daniluk, Undersecretary of the RNBO Gladkovsky and dozens of other high-ranking owners register their firms, don't pay taxes, steal Ukrainian children, Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian producers. What should we do? We block the rostrum because, unfortunately, we have only 20 deputies from the Radical Party to stop stealing power, stop robbing Ukrainians, stop pursuing anti - Ukrainian economic policies, which ultimately lead to millions of Ukrainians losing their jobs, without pay, without the ability to feed their families. So I demand from you, from the oligarchic and regional majority who have conspired, unfortunately, with our colleagues who have once been democratic factions, and today are completely changing laws to appoint the government of Groissman illegally to appoint the Attorney General -- anything to usurp power and continue to plunder the country. We demand the creation of a commission of inquiry into the corruption and abuse of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine, his environment. We ask the government to return the price of gas to Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u31	From the "Fatherland" faction, the word is given to Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction draws Parliament's attention to the fact that a bill will be tabled to Parliament today to modify the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization. In this list, strangely, even after the change of government instead of calling off the bill and reprocessing, objects in the occupied territory come. Yes, note that there are plantations, ecocontrol stations located directly in the city of Donetsk and Lugansk. How is that possible? How can the Ukrainian government privatize e, which is expressly prohibited by the Act on Occupied Territories, including port farms that are either directly near the front line or in the ATO zone. Yes, this is true of the ports of Mariupol and Berdjan, strategic objects on which our country will depend, including the security of our country. In addition, the list includes a number of objects that are subject to privatization, where the function of the State is exclusive. These are all the plant control stations, the state-owned fitness control stations, which are directly and on which the state is relying. In addition, you will find virtually every liquor plant in the list. So this is privatization not of individual liquor plants, but privatization of Ukrispirt, which we've already seen when privatizing Krusprom actually dissappointed all of the GOCs when they were divided among the largest financial and industrial groups, the state got copies of this so-called privatization, and in the end, we didn't actually get a penny from privatization, and we trashed state property. Our faction is in favour of continuing the process of privatization in public and open competitions, but this privatisation is impossible when private business refuses to sell its property because it understands very well how property can be sold today in war conditions. At the same time, objects belonging to the State that are high - cost and high - cost and that are somehow privatized are put on sale. At the same time, we, for example, are in the daytime order, despite what has been 30 days since the registration of our two laws on de-offshoring to amend the additions to tax legislation that regulates the issue of paying taxes to all offshore jurisdictions in Ukraine. We wanted the audience to pay attention to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Dear colleagues, the time taken to speak from the factions is exhausted, and we are moving on to the issue of the order of the day. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite everyone into the hall. During the Conciliation Council, there were many requirements for bills, and we have a chance to make our day effective and productive. So I put the first question of the order of the day on the table. This is a draft Act amending Appendices 3 and 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 to increase expenditure on external independent evaluation. This law requires immediate adoption. It envisions increasing the expenditure of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine under the general fund of the state budget in order to enable us to finance the external independent evaluation that is already in progress. And that's why I'm asking all the deputies to concentrate, and I'm asking all the deputies to be active. Now I'm voting on the proposal to review this draft law for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready to vote. Short - term procedure, an important issue that needs an immediate solution. Please vote in agreement and responsibly. Ready to vote? So I'm proposing a simplified procedure. Colleagues, and whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please vote. Please vote. [[10:46:27]] For-149 I see we haven't made it. I'll put it again, colleagues, but I'm asking that the deputies during the work day be in the workplace. I'm once again proposing to review the draft Law 4524 as a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:47:11]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the First Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Sowsun Innu. Sussun Innu Romanovna Please turn on the microphone. Please turn on the microphone. Don't worry, wait. The system is going to work. Please turn on the microphone to the first deputy minister of education and science.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u34	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to Bill No. 4524 on amending Appendices 3 and 6 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2016 on the increase in expenditures for the implementation of the DPA in 2016. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, as the main drafter of the bill, is very much asking to support the bill in order to ensure the timely and proper conduct of an external independent evaluation of graduates of higher education institutions. It's about the need to add 30 million to pay for the work of so-called employees involved, and those who are directly present are at the test sites. So far, 59 million 800,000 dollars are needed for this function. Instead, today this need is funded by half, we have only 30 million to pay for the work of the employees involved, another 30 we need to pay for the work of the people who will be directly at the test sites. I want to pay attention and point out that we are asking to vote, including the clarification of the explanatory note, and to make it clear that this funding will be made at the expense of the education grant reserve. Because today the explanatory note states that it will be made on the basis of expenditure planned for uncontrolled areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, we ask you to clarify that this is not at the expense of Donetsk and Lugansk Region's general reserve of education subsidies. Please accept this amendment to the explanatory note and support the bill, because we really need to ensure that the CCW is as transparent as possible. Just a few more words. I want to explain why a deficit has taken place. Because budget planning did not take into account the raising of salaries for employees of the Ukrainian Educational Quality Assessment Centre. Instead, in connection with the situation that arose at the centre after the investigation was started, after part of the workers were changed at the Ukrainian Centre, we had a big question about the involvement of qualified workers, so wages were raised at the Ukrainian Centre to really involve the best employees for external independent evaluation. This included a deficit at the Ukrainian Centre for External Independent Evaluation. So we suggest that this issue be resolved by redistribution, by handing over some of the money from the public education grant reserve to pay for the work of the employees involved in external independent evaluation. The bill was supported by the Committee on Budgets, and the Committee on Science and Education was approved. And I very much hope that the Hall will also support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u35	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we are considering an important bill in the room of noise and gamma. I ask you very much, with respect to each other and to the reporter. I am very much asking that the discussions take place outside the hall, and there was active work in the hall. The co-report is invited by the Secretary of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Škvariluk Vladimir Vasilovich. Please turn on the Squirrel microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u36	Good afternoon. Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, the prime minister presented the issue of Law 4524, which was unanimously supported on May 11 at the Committee on Budgets. This refers to an increase of 30 million wages as well as an increase in bills, so it's a very important bill. It's not about increasing public budget expenditure, so there's a balance. The committee therefore proposes that this law be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to record the performance: two for, two against. Please sign up by writing a button, not by raising your hands. Please log in. Andriewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pass the word to my colleague Spiowakovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education has discussed this issue, unanimously decided to vote in favour of this bill, but in the paper that the First Deputy Minister has just mentioned. In particular, on the basis of an education grant reserve and a dot, this is very important. Because in that paper that's now being introduced into the room, it's impossible, because that gives an informational reason for our friends, in quotes. That's why there's the funds right there, and so I'm asking you to vote for that decision, both on the basis and on the whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Eutusek gives the word to John Kirilenko. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u41	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. I'd like to draw your attention to all of your colleagues, the campaign where the 2016 budget was adopted. Everyone remembers how he prepared, how he accepted, how the vote took place in this room. We didn't vote for that budget, including for that reason. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, Andriy Volodymyrovich, the time to end the disgraceful practice, the way we accepted the budget of the previous year and of the previous year. We've forgotten about the students, we've fixed the situation, we've forgotten about the science, we've got the extra science in the daytime, we've forgotten about the miners, we've been saving the miners last week, we've forgotten about the CTU, we've got hundreds of thousands of people out on the street, we're gonna beat the President's veto. Guys, are we working or putting out the fires that we made ourselves? It's a disgraceful practice to prepare and accept the budget. Of course, this law must be voted for. How could it be forgotten in the budget that there are less than half the projected costs, and today the introductory company is under threat, hundreds of thousands of children. What can you do? Guys, we patch holes, we put out fires. Of course, we vote in favour of this law, of course, even when these changes were being prepared. How can a political slap be allowed at the expense of subsidies in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas? What kind of billing is this? Andry Volodymyrovich, you said it would be over. Let's really end this. And I don't see today in order to defeat the President's veto on PTU, to fund PTU. The question is never solved! Hundreds of thousands of people, the children who are now learning, have gone unfunded. It's a socially active part of young people. We vote in favour of this bill. We'll vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. All right, on Thursday. The question on Thursday is about CTU. Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u43	Please give the floor to a well-known expert in the Queen of Education, Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, clearly, need to support this bill. It should be voted today on the basis and in general, as was the offer of the minister of education and teaching, Lilia Grinevich last week, as well as today’s first deputy minister. But I would like to say more about such important things. In addition to the opportunities lost in terms of budget acceptance, it is clear that the issue of looking at educational subsidies for educational institutions is one of our top priorities. But understanding the risks of today's education, our colleagues in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, understanding that today they should be provided even a little bit more than their own needs, I'd like to ask my colleagues from the profile budget committee to make sure that they review the scope of the educational subsidy for the Danish and Lugansk education areas so that the issue of the acquisition of school buses, the material and technical provision of education facilities, other needs, including those that have been taken into account. It's our main forward guard in the East -- educators, scientists, who today, when under fire, are actually doing their training at these moments, meeting with their children, doing their training. Please support this bill. And it's also more special to look at the needs of our educators in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall so that we can vote from the call to vote, mobilize and vote. And now I give the floor to the Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovny, the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Anna Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u47	The "Unification Self-Help" faction will undoubtedly support this bill. But I have a question for the prime minister. You represented the past government. And as it has been said, these changes are due to the fact that the government budget of Ukraine did not take into account the fact that employees of the Ukrainian Centre for Higher Education had higher wages. I have a question, if the Cabinet of Ministers' decision to raise their salaries came out last November, why didn't you, as a representative of the Ministry, plan these 30 million in the state budget project? And who will be responsible for this? You know, right now we're looking at this bill that you didn't really have to consider if you were planning your expenses on time. The same is true of textbooks that students in the 4th and 7th classes have not yet received, and they will receive them at the end of the year. And who will be responsible for this? "The self-help union requires that all governments, representatives of timely strategic planning, that the budget and all the proposals to it not be written on your knees and then that you do not put Parliament in a disgraceful position to correct your mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u48	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. One more minute, Litwin. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Okay, the factions haven't come forward yet, well, we should've called sooner, friends, so that I could have my time, come in and let myself know. Please, Mr. Vladimir, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u49	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! It turns out that we don't have a problem with the Ministry of Education because there are reserves and there's money to be taken from the education grant reserve. I think the Cabinet of Ministers would have been able to handle it if they took 30 people from the Cabinet of Ministers' reserve fund, and those who put the funds in the education grant gave them where they needed to be given. I would like to invite the first deputy minister to attend a school in the country and see what conditions there are. And the second. I would very much like to bring the issue of the President's veto closer to the financing of the Academy of Sciences, the suspension of the transfer of vocational education to the local level, and all of these issues have been addressed in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u50	Mr. Volodymyr, I'm just reporting that all the President's proposals for Thursday stand at a very good time, at a very good time. They're standing here this Thursday, and I think we'll take them in on Thursday. From the opposition block of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u51	Thank you, Chairman. Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to explain the position of the opposition bloc faction, which will refrain from supporting this legislative initiative for the following reason. Of course, an external independent assessment is necessary. If there is not enough money for a full integrated assessment, which is 30 million bracelets, that is a small amount, indeed, a small amount, then other sources of funding must be found. In support of the previous speaker, we cannot solve all issues through the uncontrolled territories of Donbass. In fact, this money, which is intended to finance educational institutions in Donetsk and Lugansk areas, which are not currently under control, but does not say that many higher education institutions have moved to other territories in Ukraine. Why should these funds not be channelled to their operation? We are now dealing with this issue exclusively with Donetsk and Luhansk regions, but that is not fair. On the contrary, we must try to reintegrate these territories, increase budgetary funding. And we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u52	I would like to inform you that you simply did not fully listen to the report. This rule has been removed from the bill, and the prime minister recommends voting without this norm, without the removal of subsidies from the Donetské region, the Luhansk region. And I will put to the vote only with the proposal of the First Deputy Minister. Okay? Do you have a deal? Please prepare for the vote, we occupy jobs. Hence, respected colleagues, an important bill, need an urgent decision. We discussed it. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Appendices Nos. 3 and No. 6 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on the increase in expenditure on external independent evaluation (No. 4524) first. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we're voting, please. [[11:03:44]] For 230 230 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal from the committee that we should put together, in general, those suggestions that, for the stenographer, the First Deputy Minister of Education, Sosun Inn Romanovna, and, in fact, the removal of the Lugansk and Donetsk District Subsidies. And I'm putting the committee to a vote. Who supports Law 4524 as amended by the transcript of Sosun Inna Romanovna, in general, please vote. 4524 as a whole, as amended by Sowsun Inna Romanovna, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:04:45]] For 235 235 for. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee for active, productive work and ministry. It's really the fire we're putting out, but we had to do it. And Parliament has taken a decision, Law 4524 has been adopted. The next, respected colleagues, is an equally important law. At the Conciliation Council, the chairman of the Committee of Law's work, Andri Kozemyakin, in fact, appealed to the requirement of this bill, and I immediately took into account the committee's proposal of this law, which establishes the criminal responsibility of those who are above the criminal hierarchy (the so-called "criminals in law"), and also requires a swift decision by Parliament. There's a proposal from the committee and the author to take it up with a reduced procedure. 1188 under reduced procedure. Who supports the proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. We are now voting in favour of a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[11:06:10]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to report on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (responsibility for "crimes in the law" and for crimes committed by criminal groups) by the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Anton Juryovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear people of Ukraine! Dear members of the media! Our State does not yet have a detailed description of the legislative framework of the concept of “wrongness in the law”. This leads to situations in which individuals themselves, which are referred to as “wrongs in the law”, are virtually unreachable to bring them to justice. As a rule, they themselves do not commit any offences but manage the activities of criminal groups. To that end, a group of deputies had drafted a bill that would enable them to identify and introduce into the legislative field the concept of “war in the law” by example of Georgian law and thus make it possible to bring these persons to justice more likely in order to improve the security of citizens in our country. I recall that in Georgia, following the arrival of the new team, similar legislation was introduced in 2003, which allowed for the destruction of the power of the law. But then they moved from Georgia to Ukraine, and now our law enforcement agencies have to fight them. Often, however, they only have to send them abroad because there is no evidence of their full guilt. This bill will help to resolve this situation and improve the security of our citizens. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Commenting on the report, the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u55	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, reviewed the completed draft, and it worked for almost a year, number 1188. The project was carried out directly by a group on the committee, along with the authors of the project. In order to achieve its purpose, the draft law is introduced, and it is proposed to complete article 27 of the Criminal Code, 28th and 255th of the Criminal Code. The bill is also proposed for the above - mentioned persons, or thieves in the law, including those sentenced to be deprived of their liberty, foreshadows holding in chambers in a regime of severe isolation. An analysis of the information available to the committee today indicates that the crime - related situation in Ukraine has worsened. According to the Ukrainian Security Service, there are now more than 27 so - called thieves in Ukraine. In recent times, attempts by thieves have been made to influence high - cost business and economic objects. A clear example of such criminal investigations is the fight for criminal control over illegal drilling in the areas of the Plains, Zitomirsk, Volinsk regions. In most cases, however, thieves in the law do not engage directly in crimes, making it impossible to hold them accountable. Colleagues, the committee recommended to the Supreme Council during the first reading. We're working on it, and thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, for agreeing to this proposal. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u56	Thank you. And I'm asking you, your honor, to record the performance: two for, two against. Please record. From Self-Help, Markevich Jaroslav passes. Dear colleagues, I'll give it to Oleni Sotnik. But I'm still asking, it's not that hard to announce from the microphone if it's not too hard. Okay? Put out a last name, and I will. And so the system itself will automatically transmit. Please, Mrs. Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's really relevant at this stage, of course, that we discuss the subject of more complex criminal organizational structures. If you remember the history of Italy, where the fight against the Mafia was one of the key, and in general it became a social upheaval when the corrupt clans were virtually destroyed, then it was the first, perhaps the first, attempt to fight a complex hierarchy, when criminals move not only from criminal activity but also legal activity, actually affecting politics, affecting certain corrupt devices. But what is prescribed in the law is, unfortunately, not perfect from a legal point of view. This law, it clearly needs work, it needs more regulation and more, I'd say, so correct and accurate in terminology, and especially with regard to the responsibility of the individuals. And our task is not simply to enact a law with a very loud title of "crime in the law." Our job is to adopt a law that we can really bring to bear the responsibility of the mafia, which today exists in Ukraine, and which is a serious social problem. So the Self-Help faction is based on the principle that not only do we have to plough on laws and on their loud names, but we actually have to introduce standards that will actually solve the problem, the problem of mob groups. That's why we call for the drafting of this bill and a more balanced and literate approach to the formulation of norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u58	Ms. Olena, I'm just reminding you, the committee's proposal is just a basis. This is an attempt and an opportunity to work on it. And I'm asking you to have a discussion on this. On the basis of that, I think. Please, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich, People's Front. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u59	Dear colleagues. When crime is on the rise in Ukraine, the issue of punishing thieves in the law is now very important. We see how many of the so - called thieves in the law have come to us from southern countries who are trying to control crime in Ukraine. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of this bill, because we believe that because of the norms in this bill, we will be able to put these thieves in law above the thief's law and put them in such a way that we can control the criminal environment. We urge all to vote not only on the basis but also on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u61	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u62	Well, pass the word, I've said it many times, it's not that hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u63	Please pass the word to your colleague Eutuska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u64	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Including, I'm talking to colleagues from Self-Help. Well, notice when from Russia, from Georgia, from other countries, they're producing just such a legal act of these thieves in the law that come here to Ukraine, they're starting to set their rules for thieves, including in the Plains, in the Zitomirsk, in the amber fields, that's where they run administration. You're talking about a pianist right now. I'm just asking you, let's still accept this bill and not let this crime play out on our own. Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u65	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Germano Vasil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Germano Vasily Ivanovich, "The Opposition Block". With regard to the bill, I would like to draw attention to the lack of a legal culture in this bill. All you will see is that the drafters of the bill propose to the Supreme Council, already in the snow of the criminal world, to use and legitimize. What's wrong with the law? For the authors, I want to say, look, that expression, that muddy expression, and we're introducing it into the law, that's the name. It's unacceptable. Second. When we talk about the problems that the so-called “wrongs in the law” are causing, we are told by the criminal jargon, as the drafters suggest. We must look at the root, for reasons and precisely, and legally determine the subject. The reference to what was the case in Georgia does not require much thought. But to say that there is no such thing as a legal culture, which is not legalized as a legal category of such composition, such a composition of criminal elements. And we do have them, and we have to fight them, but we have to fight them on the basis of the legal basis, the qualifications that characterize them in Criminal Law, as it is, and call them the relevant legal category. It is therefore not possible to draw on what the drafters propose. That's why the Opposition Block can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, have all the factions that want to speak? Yes, they all did. I'm asking the National Deputies to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask that you inform the deputies that there will be a vote now, please. My dear colleagues, as they enter the Chamber, I would like to inform you that the committee's decision is solely on a basis. We will be able to make all the adjustments that are necessary and that have been made during the performances before the second reading. And I think it's going to be an important symbolic act that we can make today, an international experience of fighting an organized criminal world. And Ukraine, in times of war, has to act hard on this issue, and act effectively as a state, as a government. Therefore, I ask all members of the people to prepare themselves for the vote. Just on the ground, I think, just on the ground. Are you guys ready? I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (responsibility for "crimes in the law" and for crimes committed by criminal groups) project number 1188. At the committee's suggestion on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Society, just as a foundation. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[11:19:46]] For 178. 178 for. Colleagues, why don't we maybe exchange our thoughts on that? It's an unacceptable thing, I think, if we reject this bill right now. Colleagues, heads of factions! Can we exchange thoughts? Let's try it again, shall we? Let's try it again. Is there no objection? Denys the Opposition Block. Let's try it again, shall we? The MPs will be here in a minute. Colleagues, just the first reading on the ground. I'm asking you to maximize the factions, the ones that support our support not only by statements but also by voting. And by our responsible vote. I see there are many opponents of this bill in the hall. It's a warning. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to go back to the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on liability for thieves in law and crime, teaching them not to criminal groups. 1188. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Vote! [[11:21:59]] For-183 Thank you, please include by faction: "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 76, "National Front" – 63, Opposition Block – 0, "Samhelp" – 18, Radical Party of Oleg Láška – 0, "Fatherhood" – 15, "Party of Rebirth" – 1, "Will of the People" – zero. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I have two suggestions to make. One is to return to the committee for further work, the other is the subject of the legislative initiative. I'll be the first to go back to the committee for work. Can we mobilize around this idea? The idea was "self-help" -- the committee for further development. We can, we can, colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize. And I will make a proposal, in accordance with the Rules, to return to the Committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (number 1188) to return to the Committee for re-reading, to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[11:23:34]] For 209 And my last offer is for a pre-worker. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, we're missing literally a few votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] The question of thieves in the law is not a matter of coalition and opposition, it's a question of the Ukrainian state, it's a question of a colleague. Dear colleagues, please prepare. And I put to the vote the last sentence envisaged by the Rules is a proposal to return to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting for a proposal: a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation (as regards responsibility for "crimes in the law" and for crimes committed by criminal groups) (number 1188) to return the subject of the legislative initiative to work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:24:56]] For 210 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, we now have the section "Inclusion in the Order of the Day Session." Among those bills that are planned and proposed to be included in the agenda of the day session are a large number of those bills that are very important to our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. That is why I am asking for special attention during the vote. And I'm asking for a special concentration of deputies to vote in this section. This is the most important moment today for cooperation with the government, and I ask you to mobilise all the factions of Parliament. So it's proposed to include in the agenda the draft Law 4510, this is the draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities for the Deputy Directors of the Central Executive Authority. Bill 4510, proposed for inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, just getting into the dayroom. Anyone who supports the proposal to include the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:26:44]] For 165 The decision is not made. Next, 4515: Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on Optimization of Territorial Authorities of the State Fiscal Service. This is the Southern Nina Petrovna Committee. 4515. Who supports the inclusion of the draft law in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:27:33]] For-167 167 for. The decision is not made. Next: 4526. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian State Service Act. 4526. Whoever supports its inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote. 4526, please vote. [[11:28:13]] For-167 167 for. The decision is not made. Next: 4536. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized on Certain Agricultural and Transport Areas. Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:29:03]] For-174 174 for. The decision is not made. Next: 2409a. Draft Law on the Principles of State Health Policy This bill, on which the committee insisted and on which there were many demands of different factions. And it's up to us whether he's in the daytime or not. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to focus. Next draft of the Law on the Principles of State Health Policy (2409a). Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please vote 2409a. Vote. [[11:29:59]] For 224 Dear colleagues, 224. I'll do it again, I'll do it. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Ola the Mantis, mobilize the faction as much as possible, two votes are not enough. Dear colleagues who support this bill, please mobilize. There's mobilization. Yeah? So once again, I'm putting a motion to put the draft Law on the Principles of State Policy into the agenda of the day session. The principles of public health policy (number 2409a) Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:30:56]] For 232 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law. This is also from the Health Committee. Draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (for access to the results of pre-clinical study and clinical trials of medical devices) (4074). I understand that this is also the consolidated position of the committee. Mrs. Ira, right? Consolidated position. Colleagues, please mobilize, and I would like to include in the agenda the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (4074). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:31:59]] For 246 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on the Specificities of the Implementation of Certain Provisions of European Union Legislation on the Circumvention of Medical Devices. This is draft Law 4465, which also includes a list of compromise laws of the Health Committee. And I ask everyone to be careful when voting. Ready? I propose the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the peculiarities of the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union legislation on the circulation of medical devices, No. 4465, in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:33:02]] For the 250. Decision taken. Congratulations, committee. And we still have laws from the Health Committee. Next, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on psychiatric care, number 4449. He is also in harmony with the entire committee. Yes, yes, friends, 4449. Yes, it is agreed upon by all members of the various factions that are on the committee, and it is placed in the order of the day session. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the provision of psychiatric assistance (number 4449), the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:34:05]] For 253 Decision taken. Next, the draft Law on the Organization of Health Care in Ukraine (4456). As far as I know, he is also in agreement with the entire committee, and there is support for all political factions. Can we vote, Mrs. Ola? Olya, can we vote, Mantis? We're backing it up. Draft Act on the Organization of Health Care for the Population in Ukraine (number 4456), inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:35:06]] For 263 Decision taken. In this way we have included a whole block of health bills in the agenda of the day’s session. I hope that the committee will decide more quickly so that we can put them up for consideration in the first reading of our session. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the drafters. Next draft of the Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budgets for the Improvement of Ukrainian Law on Health Finance. It is a budget committee, but it is also a health issue (4457). Therefore, who supports the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Improvement of Ukrainian Law on Health Finance (number 4457), please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:36:18]] For 253 Decision taken. Next, the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization (for exemption from military service during the mobilization of close relatives of persons who died during direct participation in the ATO) (4482). Dear colleagues, I think there's a general understanding of the support of this proposal. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization (4482), please vote. 4482, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:37:23]] For 251 Decision taken. Next, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016 on State Support for the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the National Industrial Academy of Sciences. This is what Mr. John Kirilenko stressed today. Dear colleagues, 4477, who support the inclusion of the draft law into the agenda, please vote. We'll support the scientists. Please vote. [[11:38:14]] For 228 Decision taken. Next, the draft Law amending article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (to ensure the application of the concept of "citizen unity" in budgetary legislation in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Association Act (4280). Who supports the inclusion of the bill in the agenda, please vote. 4280, scheduled for the day session. Please vote. [[11:39:01]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following is 4419, the draft Law amending article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 4419, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Anyone who supports it, please vote. 4419, please vote. [[11:39:48]] For 223 Ladies and gentlemen, 223. Once again, I ask you to concentrate and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Colleagues, so I'm going to put the 4419 in the agenda again. Whoever supports the inclusion of this bill, please vote. 4419, please vote. [[11:40:21]] For 215 215. The decision is not taken. 4256 is next. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Improvement of the Change Procedure. 4256 is a bill from the Committee of Cosemiakin. Who supports the inclusion of the bill in the agenda of the day session, please vote. 4256, who supports, please vote. [[11:41:06]] For-195 195. The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (4262). Whoever supports the inclusion of the draft law in the agenda, please vote. [[11:41:41]] For 205 205. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it's just an order of the day session, it's only a right to consider drafts. Let's move on to the next one. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition on Improving Control Procedures for Concentration of Hosts (4287). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Please, 4287 votes. [[11:42:25]] For 199 The decision is not made. Next draft of the Act amending Chapter XI of the Act on the Procuratorship Act (4467). We're putting it down, aren't we? Do you confirm that he's not relevant? Two committees are not valid. We are putting off the changes that we made last Thursday. Next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the restriction of the use of media products by the aggressor State. Colleagues, law to protect the information security of our nation. Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote, 4303. Please vote on who supports this bill. Vote. [[11:43:34]] For 217 I'll put it to the vote again. I'm asking you to pay more attention. Who supports the inclusion of the daily session of the draft Law 4303, please vote. Please vote. [[11:44:02]] For 223 The MPs are demanding factions, please include by factions. Peter Poshenko Block – 109 People's Front – 65, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 19, Oleg Ljashka Radical Party – 1, Parenthood – 9, Rebirth Party – 1, Will of the People – 3. Next, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, when I hear some demands that you're not in time, I can't understand, and where you were a minute before the vote that you didn't make it to the workplace. We're taking on a matter of extreme importance, and I don't know what might distract the MP at the time of the war when we vote for information security. What are the bigger questions, Mr. Sergio Leschchenko, when we are discussing national security issues? I'm going to vote 4303 again. Anyone who supports the inclusion of it in the agenda of the session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:45:28]] For 229 Decision taken. Next, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine (to clarify certain provisions). This is the Education Committee. Now, how many times has this been raised, but to look at it, we have to put it in the order of the day session first. 4349, please concentrate. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Scientific and Technological Activities, 4349, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:46:23]] For 237 Decision taken. Next, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (concerning compliance with weight or regulation and/or the conditions laid down in the permit to participate in road traffic) (4660). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day-to-day session 4660, please vote. Please vote. [[11:47:05]] For-198 The decision is not taken. By factions, please include the factions on the screen. Thank you. So 4660 didn't get the necessary support. The next, 4661, is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of road safety control and liability for road traffic violations (4661). Who supports the inclusion of the draft law in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:48:07]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (for social payments) (4316). Dear colleagues who support the inclusion in the agenda of the 4316 session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:48:42]] For 223 Colleagues, three votes short. I'm asking you to mobilize, I'll put it again. Yeah, I can see they didn't vote. I'm asking you to focus. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the question of social benefits. Anyone who supports the inclusion of 4316 in the agenda, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:49:20]] For 242 Decision taken. Next is the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's 2016 State Budget on financial security for the reform of Ukraine's fisheries sector (4464). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:50:05]] For 217 Colleagues, do we have a chance to score? There's a chance. Then I will normally put the matter to the vote again. I would like to point out that inclusion in the agenda of the day session does not require a return, and you can put them as many times as you need to. I'm asking you to mobilize. And I'm revoting the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's 2016 State Budget on financial security for the reform of the fisheries sector of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote! [[11:51:10]] For 234 Decision taken. And the last of this dissension is the draft Law amending section VI, paragraph 24, paragraph 24, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (as regards the redistribution of the local budgets of the settlements in which the public authorities do not temporarily exercise their powers). A very important bill. I ask my colleagues to mobilize and prepare for the vote. So whoever supports the inclusion of Law 4623 in the agenda, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:52:12]] For 231 231 for. Decision taken. I welcome those drafters who passed the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to give you a motive. I'd like to consult you. Look, I'm basically a proponent of using some form of communication before we go to decisions. Look, we have the next chapter, which is "making a decision on the issues under discussion." In particular, it's 4232: Social television. An extremely important law, we have fully spoken it. All we have to do is make a decision. So is 2766: TV and radio talk. We also spoke to him fully, only the necessary decision - making. But I don't want to put it to a vote before we don't feel there's support in the room for these bills. I would ask a colleague -- the heads of factions a minute from that point to speak out so that we can decide whether to put them to a vote as a result of this discussion. Please, People's Front, Maxim Burbak. And then Igor Green, the Peter Dust Block. Please, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u68	Andriy Volodymyrovich, thank you for being able to finally tell our people the position and the People's Front, and so that people can hear the position of MPs who don't vote for the right bills that go to the TV show, tell us how they love our state, and don't vote for the bills themselves. 4660, 4661 are the laws that protect roads. See what was on the weekends: blocked the route to Odessa, blocked the routes in Santa Claus. We need to protect the country roads. All right, the government has accumulated, it's 19 billion, but you can spend 19 trillion, and these roads are going to be ruined. So every day we see that the lobby of carriers that destroy our roads is present in the Supreme Council and does not allow for the adoption of very important laws – laws to protect our roads. We're going back to the vote and we're going to put it into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u69	Mr. Maxim, may I take it that you support 4232 and 2766, the People's Front faction? Social television and television radio. [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll support it. Please, Igor Green, one minute. Then Oleg Berezuk. One minute, Igor Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u70	The Petra Dustenka Faction will support the inclusion of 4232 and 2766 in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u71	Mr. Igor, we've already discussed them. It's about making a decision. Do you support the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Thank you very much. Please, based on Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u74	Replicas of politicians who on television protect Ukrainian roads by creating new corruption schemes. The law coming to the Supreme Council is to be passed by committees, to be discussed and then adopted. Because those laws that are being proposed, and the huge 99 percent probability of a new corruption scheme on Ukraine's roads. And then we'll talk about who's protecting it! Party. The Self-Help faction will support those bills he's asking right now. What Mr. Head is asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u75	Thank you very much. My colleagues, I'd still like to hear "The Fatherland." Will you support me? Colleagues, then I'd like to see other factions with no warnings. This is Social Television and Radio. Dear colleagues, we've been through a full discussion. Colleagues, I'm not starting a discussion. We're only here right now, we're focused, we can just vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, no discussion, I'm sorry. I won't take the floor because there's no discussion. I'm just asking everyone to get as close as possible to the voting room and get ready for the vote. Colleagues, we're taking up jobs. So, colleagues, 4232. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting (for the order of association of the Ukrainian Television Film Studio "Ukrtelefilm"), which we have discussed in this room in full procedure in the second reading and in general. 4232 as a whole. Please support 4232, colleagues, please support everyone, please vote. An important bill, please vote, colleagues. [[11:57:24]] For 224 Colleagues, I'm asking you to concentrate. Olya and our other medics, don't raise your hand and call those factions that aren't here right now. Please call everyone you can and go to the towers and bring them into the hall, don't call me. I'll be right back, company. I'm asking everyone to focus in the hall. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. This is a complete irresponsibility when we walk on the clock under such important laws. I propose to return to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting (4232). Whoever supports the return to this bill, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:58:33]] For 228 So we went back to looking at the draft Law. And I'm re-voting the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting, 4232 on second reading and in general. Please vote, colleagues, second reading and in general. Please vote. [[11:59:08]] For 235 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. I welcome the entire Ukrainian journalistic community with this important decision. And next, a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. Don't leave the hall, please, colleagues. 2766, fully discussed in full procedure, only requires a decision. I'm asking you to focus, colleagues, focus. And I'm putting the bill to a vote. Mrs. Oksana, vote, please. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Broadcasting Act (as regards the definition of European Production Broadcasts) (2766) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:00:16]] For the 220. Colleagues, six votes. Six votes, colleagues. I'm asking the secretariat to call the deputies into the hall. This, boys, girls, is the last vote, and then there'll be a break. I ask you to concentrate and invite deputies into the hall and take your seats. Yuri Miroshnichenko, go, support the Ukrainian state, television, and radio. Take action against the faction and support it. My colleagues, how are you feeling in the hall? Victoria, Ola? Did they take who they could into the hall? Can we vote? So please concentrate. I, colleagues, honourable deputies, have great respect for all national MPs, but at such times it is important that we be able to make decisions. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (2766). Those who support this proposal, colleagues, please vote. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, please vote. Please vote return. Please vote, colleagues. [[12:01:52]] For 222 I can see there's more company. But. Colleagues, I return to the draft Television and Radio Act (2766). I ask everyone to concentrate and vote. 2766, return. Colleagues, please, vote. Please vote. [[12:02:49]] For 231 We're back. And now I'm putting a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (2766) on second reading and in general. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. [[12:03:18]] For 229 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the developer authors. Thank you for your hard work. And according to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes, until 12:35, our work will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that our work is not simple but important. Please come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to invite the deputies into the hall to take up their jobs. Ischeikin Kostinetin Evgenovich, if you're in the hall, please come to me. Ischeikin Constantine Evgenovich. You're a bastard. Is there a Paccan in the hall? Colleagues, once again I ask the heads of factions to call the deputies, we wait another minute for the national MPs to enter. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, can we get to work? Colleagues, please get ready for work. So the next thing we have in a day's time is a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (3560-d). There are suggestions both from the authors and from the committee to consider it as a reduced procedure. Yeah? Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote a motion for a reduced procedure. So, who supports the 3560-d proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[12:42:52]] For-94 The hall insists that there be consideration of the full procedure. I'm going to put this on full procedure and remind you that in this way the number of bills that we're going to adopt is decreasing right now. But I'm going to do what I have to do. I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich to report. Please turn on the microphone of Constantine Eugenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u77	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues and invited! Your opinion is proposed by Bill 3560-d amending the Budget Code (as regards the technical refinement of government and local budgets related to purchases). Its aim is to align budget rules with the Public Procurement Act, which began on April 1, this year, and provides for the inclusion of payments for purchases in government and local budgets. The bill under consideration has been further elaborated in the drafting of the relevant government bill, which has been withdrawn in connection with the change of government. In general, the bill supports both the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Finance. On March 16, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered the issue and adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 3560d as a basis and generally as a law. Taking into account the need to settle payments as soon as possible, I ask my colleagues to support the committee’s decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u78	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. So who needs to ask the interviewer a question, please sign up for the presentation. No questions asked. We don't have a report, you give both a report and a report. And the next chapter is the factions of the factions of three minutes. Dear colleagues, please record the factions on this bill. Please record. From the Moroko opposition block, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u79	Dear Andrei Vladimirović, who wishes to speak on a net bill, I think, for a simple reason, that this is most often useless, because the Rules of the Supreme Council are not respected. You've filed 2766 bills with a grave violation. I asked you to speak according to procedure, you didn't give it to me. The bill was voted on 21 April by deputies in the second and 205 people in general. You didn't put him to the vote again. Under article 107, the bill was rejected by the Supreme Council. On what basis did you base it -- it's completely unclear -- this bill. Moreover, in this bill we discriminated against European countries: the Netherlands, Denmark, Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, Greece, Luxembourg. You gave it as a pro-European, it was an anti-European bill. In fact, we have imposed restrictions on film production in China, Australia, India, Brazil, South Korea and Turkey. A great request and a request to you, Andrei Vladimirović, to abide by the Rules, not to violate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u80	Thank you. Yuri Mikolaiovich, according to the Rules, I should have stopped your speech as one that does not apply to the subject matter of the bill. But from a deep belief in the need for freedom of speech, democracy, pluralism, I did not do so by violating the Rules. I now give the floor to Melnik Sergey Ivanovich of the block, the faction of Peter Dustenk. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the purpose of this law is to harmonize budgetary rules with the Public Procurement Act, which began on April 1, this year. And what's important is that, if they don't return to the participant, the funds that came in to provide the tender are counted against the corresponding budget if the purchases are made at the expense of the budget. The faction therefore supports the bill and proposes to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u82	Thank you. From the Hungarian People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, of course, we are now considering one of those bills that may be externally very technical, but they are vital to the functioning of our financial system in the state. I want to say that the Public Procurement Act came into force, thanks to the efforts of the previous government, which will continue in the work of this government. And public purchases and tender purchases through ProZorro began to work. We are now in line with the budget code. And the faction will support a positive vote on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u84	Thank you. So the factions of the factions are exhausted. None of the factions want to speak anymore? Our next chapter is performances by national MPs. Three minutes. I'm just asking you to come forward with this bill, or I'm gonna have to turn off the microphone. So please record the performances by the national MPs. Please record. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Lewchenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u85	Thank you. The bill should, indeed, be largely technical. And in that part of the bill, which is about bringing it into line with the new Public Procurement Act, we absolutely agree. But the point is that this bill has some rules that are completely out of line with its original content, which are related to the issues of the formation of local budgets and the financing of the road-building experiment. And that doesn't match the primary purpose of the bill. So I would like to ask the chairman, please, to put the bill exclusively on first reading, not in general, so that we can understand, in fact, between the first and second readings, what other norms have emerged in this bill, which, once again, do not correspond to its original technical, essentially technical content. And, Mr. Chairman, I would still, considering that as a non-fractional I don't always manage to get the word, I would still like you very much. To draw your attention and to the attention of all the deputies that we have today by some miracle turned out to be the order of the daily bill 2506a. We haven't reached him yet; he's in the chapter that we discussed earlier. It's, to my profound belief, an anti-national bill on private law enforcement, which we had two bills on, and we discussed here a long time ago. So, bill 2506a was rejected by the Supreme Council, this information is on the Supreme Council website. It clearly states that he was put to the vote in the second reading and in general, not the signal vote, but in the second reading and in general, he did not get enough votes. That's why he's being rejected. That's why I'm publicly addressing the headmaster. Please comply with the Rules in this regard and do not re-prove this bill in violation of the Rules of Procedure if our agenda is reached today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u86	Mr. Yuri, I have to answer. I would like to remind you that the first bill proposed in this section of "court reform" was rejected, and 2506a and 2507a -- I have announced that we will consider them in the section "after discussed". We are then. Only the first bill was rejected, and those two were announced under the transcript that they would be decided on later. Thank you. Unguran, please turn on the microphone. And then Solovay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. I'd like to say that as a replica of a respectable colleague on the right side of the hall, which, in fact, one of the norms of this bill is the very norm that relates to the experiment, which still proves its effectiveness in the territory of Wallinsk, Lvivsk, Odessk, Cherniewsk regions and the city of Kiev. We see a significant resource of finance that's going directly to build and repair roads. But that's exactly what we're correcting in this bill. So far, we have been able to channel the cost of the experiment only to the development of the roadways of general state importance. And it's greatly narrowing down the possibility of using these funds, even though we have big problems with roads not only of national importance, but also of local importance. That's why in this bill we're only suggesting that we take a state-of-the-art position and replace it with something that can be provided for financial security for the development of road routes in general use of any meaning, whether national or local. If the corresponding customs office has been able to accumulate these costs, 50 percent of this figure is sent to the state budget, 50 percent is sent to the local budget to finance road development measures of any importance, both state and local. I think it is. It's very, very important especially (especially underlining) for the city of Kiev, because in Kiev there's a huge number of roads of local importance, and the road of national importance in Kiev is not much, because it's a city that consists of local roads. So I think this is just the right and very useful novelty that is. This bill is included in the bill. He needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u88	Thank you. Salovi Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u89	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I want to. Indeed, practice has shown that the customs experiment is related to overcoming indicative indicators, which are directed 50 percent to the local budget to address the problem of roads, has indeed shown its effectiveness and, indeed, has shown that local self - government authorities are more motivated in this case to establish customs procedures. However, I would like to point out that the problem of roads is not only in four areas: Odessa or Zakarpata, or Cherniewec region, or the city of Kiev. At the same time, the road problem is a problem that affects the entire state of Ukraine today. And so it's kind of discriminatory to leave these costs exclusively in four areas, and the rest of the areas don't apply to that principle. So my proposal is to adopt this bill exclusively in the first reading, to look at it in detail on the budget committee, and to make a balanced final decision that would balance the interests of all regions of Ukraine, not just those regions that were written in the first draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there are any suggestions of the hall, I'll put it on the ground, but in order for us to make any decision, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall, and we'll move on to the vote in a minute or two. Heads of factions, please mobilize the deputies in the hall. And I would like to ask, is there a need in the closing word, Constantine Eugeniovich? It's a closing statement. Turn on Ischikin's microphone, Constantine Eugeniovich, for the final word. Turn on the microphone, Ischeykin Constantine Eugeniovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u91	In view of the fact that the bill is supported by many colleagues and factions in general, I have only one request that we put to the vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I just want to make sure that I know whether to put it or not. Self-help, do you support the base? You'll support it. "Paternity"? Supports the foundation. "The will of the people," "Rebirth" as a foundation. "The People's Front", on the basis of support? Yes, on the ground. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. Please, let's go in, take jobs, move on to making decisions. Colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, 3560-d. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting on the ground. [[12:59:41]] For-198 Please turn on the factions. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I have to make the next proposal for a re-examination to the committee. Colleagues, I'm asking you to focus so we don't lose the bill. To re-read the committee's first reading. Is such an idea supported? Will we try again to get back to it? Shall we try to go back? Colleagues, I'm going to put the vote back on the ground. Then there will be other proposals under the Rules. My colleagues, I'm once again proposing to go back to the 3560-d vote as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:01:11]] For 208 No number of votes required. Guys, I'm only trying to bet once. I'm trying to respond to your warnings about compliance. But, Mr. Oleg, will one man decide now? We're short 15 people. We're short 15 people. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Now I'm going to put the next proposal in order of the day. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues, I will now return to the committee for a second reading. And I'm going to ask everyone not to lose the bill to support this proposal. Colleagues, do you accept such an offer? Please do not leave the hall, but go into the hall, colleagues. I'm voting on the proposal for. send a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (3560-d) to the Committee for Re-reading. Colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[13:02:43]] For 216 This proposal did not receive the required number of votes. I'll bet you the next offer. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. And, colleagues who are interested that we don't lose the bill, help mobilize MPs, because MPs just leave the room when they vote. I'm making the final offer, after which the bill will be rejected. So I'm proposing that the subject should be returned to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (3560-d). Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Could you, during the vote, return to your seats and vote? Whoever supports this proposal, 3569d, please vote, please support us, colleagues, so that we don't lose the bill. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:04:03]] For the 220. Colleagues, 220. Society, 6 votes, 6 votes. Society, I'm going to make one last vote: return the subject to the legislative initiative. And I'm asking the factions to maximize MPs. Colleagues, Mr. Igor, Mr. Oleg! Everyone backs up, and I'm asking you very much, just discipline the deputies. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. And I am revoting the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets (3560). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we vote, we vote, we vote. For the return, yes, for the return. [[13:05:34]] For 224 224. Dear colleagues, the bill has been rejected. Next draft of the Act amending the Criminal Code on the criminalization of the smuggling of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products (3254). Dear colleagues, there's a proposal from both the author and the committee to consider a reduced procedure. Yeah? Colleagues, if this proposal is supported for a reduced procedure, I would like to vote. 3254 on the summary procedure, please vote. [[13:06:30.]] For-174 Decision taken. The report is invited by the Ukrainian National MP, the author of the Pakkan Bill Valeriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u93	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, is brought to your attention by Bill 3254, concerning the criminalization of smuggling in our country. After what happened last year in Mukachev, we can see that such a crime as smuggling should not remain unpunished. We suggest that we introduce the Criminal Code into 201 articles to criminalize part of the smuggling. criminalize this article. In all countries of the world, including Ireland, smugglers are threatened from 12 months to many years, in Britain, always, and in all countries smuggling is one of the most serious crimes. Many of the authors of this bill, the entire interim commission of inquiry that worked at Zakarpatta, are signatories to this bill. Similarly, along with Andri Volodymyrovich, an alternative bill was introduced, and another bill was tabled by a number of colleagues. We propose, Mr. Head and the National Deputies, to vote in favour of this legislative act on the basis and for the second reading to further develop those important boards, those important works that are in your legislative act, and in other colleagues of ours, in other legislative acts. I promise you that in the shortest term, this working group will work out those possible moments before we incorporate your important aspects into our bill, and we will have perhaps a draft bill in a week or at the next meeting that will be in the session room. Please support everyone on the basis of our bill, a bill that was drafted by the interim commission of inquiry into the events that took place in Zakarpat. Likewise, I would like to support a colleague from the Radical Party, including Igor Mosiyczuk, who is also a signatory, the author of this bill on criminalization of article 201 of the said bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Valérie. I give the floor to the co-reporter, the head of the Committee on the Protection of Law Enforcement of Kozemiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u95	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The committee reviewed the draft Law (No. 3254) amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. According to Mr. Valérie, the bill proposes to amend article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and to criminalize smuggling of alcoholic beverages through customs, customs, customs control or customs control. The bill establishes responsibility. There are questions that have been raised on the committee. Well, first of all, it has to do with the fact that in our time we were going along a European path and decriminalizing these articles, economic smuggling, because usually they are! — after the smuggling took place, smuggled, who sat on the bench of the defendants? The drivers, the people who drove together, then the directors of the firm, the so-called "pounds," or those who organized this smuggling, were always outside the law. So it was quite a difficult decision for the committee to make, but we made a decision to support our colleagues and the entire commission that worked worked effectively on the Interim Commission of Inquiry on the events at Zakarpatta. And we recommend that this bill be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u96	Thank you. Thank you for the committee's decision. I just want to say that for today's smuggling, we have an administrative penalty. Economic smuggling. For the Ukrainian Security Service, it is extremely difficult for all law enforcement agencies to fight smuggling because smugglers are easier to pay a fine, and again carry smuggling and earn billions in the budget of the Ukrainian State. I agree there's still a lot of work to do. And that's why the authors, and I was the author of one of those bills, are recommending that we be able to make all of these proposals and include them in the second reading. I'm sure everyone will be very active during this job. And I'm asking a colleague of the national MPs to do a recording: two for, two against, who wants to participate in the discussion of the bill. Please. Does Oleg Barna give it to you? He's not giving it to Oleg Barn. Please, Oleg Barn, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u97	Mr. Victor Pinzenik. Please. I'll give it to Mr. Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u98	Please, Mr. Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear friends, our Parliament shakes like a pendulum, one way from one side to the other. According to André Cosemykin, article 201, the criminal responsibility for economic smuggling was already in Ukrainian legislation, but then it was decriminalized, decriminalized by very simple indicators. Because it wasn't the people who organized the smuggling, it was the performers. Moreover, under all European standards and standards smuggling is only forbidden to move across borders. In other words, smuggling can be weapons, drugs, other means that are prohibited for free use, and only criminal responsibility can arise. The question of organizing the responsibility of those people who are, in principle, involved in the smuggling that we're all talking about with you today is the organization of smuggling, not just moving across borders. But this is a completely different form of crime, a component of a crime that is called service crimes in the field of the discharge of its duties by customs authorities or by foreign authorities. So, frankly, I don't see the point of using a populism method again, such as attracting very simple people who are performers for smuggling, but, in principle, strengthening the responsibility of those who make decisions about its organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Lapin Igor Alexanderovich of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I call on everyone to vote for the bill and to vote for it. First of all, well, to be honest, I live in an area of Volin district where there are a lot of transitions related to other states. And I can say that, as a lawyer, after 17 years of law school, I've seen a lot of smuggling work in Volina. Thanks to our ability to reduce the flow of customs smuggling, we were able to raise additional costs for roads in Volina, and so on in various areas. My point is that the concept of smuggling cigarettes and tobacco products and alcohol is generally smoked by FSB employees in Russia. I can tell you how the Sumskie area is being driven from Russia by furs of cigarettes that then move to Poland through Ukraine, and that's all shadowy costs. All the shadow costs, they primarily finance crime. I can tell you how from Donetsk, from the cigarette factory, the furs go to Volin, and then they cross the border with Poland. This is also the financing of terrorism. So, dear colleagues, if we don't do anything, as the previous speaker said, and we think about other mechanisms, we will continue to celebrate smuggling. So I urge everyone, the hall, to take up their jobs, to stop all discussions on other issues that concern not only parliamentary activity, but also to go to work and vote on the bill. I'm sure the second reading will fix it. And given what the colleague said, the author of the bill will be able to clean up all the flaws that are before the second reading. However, this bill is needed, and we need to fight smuggling by investing in Ukraine's budget. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u102	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u103	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. I fully support what Igor Lapin said. And the People's Will Group will support this bill. But we need to reinforce, of course, the responsibility of officials who control and "breathing" this kind of criminal activity, namely smuggling. Who fully escorts the passage from Donetsk, who passes through the front line, who leads them further along the way to the interdistricts, who "breaks" them further, in other district centres that European countries are already passing customs? Who are the heads of these, other, power structures, who are the heads of administration? They're all on the subject, believe me. And it is necessary for our new investigative agencies to work and everyone, not just the drivers, who are transporting and who are creating this, but the ones who are "breathing them." That's where the basic assets are. Therefore, the second reading requires fruitful work, and we will also make changes to this bill. We're going to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help, two minutes. Mr. Oleg! Mr. Oleg! Please, the people's representative of Ostrikav. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, smuggling is certainly evil for the economy of the state. Because of the activities of companies that minimize the budget of Ukraine, at least 50 billion dollars does not come into the budget. And that's when we stand in our ears, looking for where to get the money, borrowing it abroad, taking extraordinary efforts to give us $1.7 billion right now. And how many billion dollars does smuggling not make it to the budget? I want to say that stopping smuggling is the first task of the government of Groysman. At the same time, they're actually working on the terror of legal white importers who refuse to pay bribes and do not participate in their schemes. In fact, you know, the covert activity of a bunch of tax proteins. Now, on customs and borders, a gang of criminal "ghost hunters" of the Security Service, who burn the goods, burn the boxes of legal importers, spoil their commercial appearance. So first of all, I agree with my colleague Melniczuk that we are not looking where we should be. We need to bring to our senses those units that really have to fight smuggling rather than terrorize ordinary entrepreneurs. Can they tell us where the vans and containers of the minimizers of the nuts, the Shermans, the alperins go? Can't they see that? And they only see where legal importers work. Therefore, of course, this bill will be supported by our faction in the first reading, because smuggling of excise goods poses a significant threat to the national economy of Ukraine. And those sanctions that are proposed, we're working on them between the first and the second readings. But the positive factor in this bill is that it proposes to confiscate not only the objects of smuggling but also the means of transport in the income of the State where these items were transported. Maybe it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u106	Let me finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u107	And we think that this additional confiscation is going to be another incentive for legal entrepreneurs not to be involved in smuggling or participating in PR schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party. Then it's Fatherland. Oleg Valeriyovich! I ask very much of you to speak as all the national deputies speak. We've got a stand locked down, and no one has the right to speak of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When you speak, dear colleagues, of decriminalization. about criminalizing smuggling and increasing responsibility, you're struggling with the consequences, not the reasons. Let us take a closer look at the causes of the smuggling, including these reasons that lie in this room. Let's think about who voted for the government of Groysman, the oligarchy groups. According to the governor of the Zakartat district of Moscow, when one of the viewers of this oligarchic group was placed on the customs of Zacarpathia, the authorities are counting on the vote of the oligarchic groups for the government of Groysman. What Is Carpathian Customs? What is Odessa Customs and all other customs? These are billions of opportunities that should go to the budget to raise wages and pensions in order to give jobs to young people. You're here to divorce smuggling, you're here to divorce corruption, you're creating an oligarchi-regional majority in Parliament, and then you're teasing people that you seem to be struggling with this smuggling. If you really want to fight smuggling, go to the Prime Minister’s office, which appoints customs officials, counting in an oligarchy corrupt way with those who supported his vote and the government program. You want to fight corruption? So wipe your eyes and look in the President's office and around him. The whole world is talking about offshore corruption, the Ukrainian Parliament is freezing like a blind, deaf and mute, because they are blocking anti-corruption investigations against the highest leaders of the state. So the Radical Party faction continues to block the parliamentary rostrum. We demand the establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the offshore corruption of the state's highest officials, and we demand that the Ukrainians be reimbursed for the gas you took from the people because you have to pay for corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I have been asked, if I may, to respond. I'll give you my word. Dear colleagues, here in this Parliament we have created an anti-corruption office and an anti-corruption independent prosecutor's office. We created it according to all the recommendations of the European Union through the competition that took place in that room. That is why I have a great request to all the national deputies. Instead of the loud statements, there are documents -- let's go to the NABU, to the anti-corruption prosecutor's office. No documents, no facts -- please don't just engage in populism from the highest court of our nation. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the "Fatherland" faction to John Krulka. Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u111	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! The "Fatherland" faction will support this bill in the first reading. We believe that smuggling in Ukraine has become dangerous. From the Fatherland faction, I represented a position during the commission on the events in Mukachev, when a man was killed by such devices. In fact, in Zakarpat, the issue of smuggling, and not only in Zakarpat, but in all the border regions of Ukraine, has resulted in extremely dangerous and dangerous consequences for the State. What does this law foretell? This law provides for criminalizing the responsibility of smuggling tobacco and alcohol. At the same time, however, the Criminal Code provides for other forms of punishment besides guarding. We believe that those who commit economic crimes are subject to economic consequences and economic responsibility: confiscation, fines to the highest possible. And I think that's the kind of factor that we're going to be able to overcome smuggling in the country. So in the first reading, we have to vote on this bill, and in the second reading, we have to work very seriously on it on the issue of sanctions, because there can't be a situation where we fill prisons for economic crimes. In prisons, those who commit crimes should be primarily against personalities — banditry, robbery, murder, and so forth. As for economic crimes, they must be held accountable economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Rosenblatt, one minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, it's a very good bill. And increasing criminal responsibility for smuggling crimes is what investors today need, first of all, who love to invest in our country today, who love to compete on common grounds, not gray, green and black smugglers. But at the time, I want to point out. For the low wages of those who are now passing through their hands billions of money. First of all, Law 3782, our border guards, who still get paid, think, 2,500 thousand dollars. I would like to emphasize that our tax collectors, who also get low wages, we have to worry about, if we want to fight the legal ways of smuggling, let's support the people who should do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Society, well, I'll give it to everyone on the line, just please very briefly. I'll give everyone a word. Unguran. Then Antonistak. Then Victor Pinzenik. Then he's a chicken. And that's where we end the discussion. These are the last four lines. Please, Unguran, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, let's take a closer look at the reason for this bill. It's smuggling of alcohol and tobacco products or, as we call it, it's under-taxation. Why does it arise? It is due to the fact that the state is increasing significantly, and the right thing to do is significantly increase the excise burden on these kinds of goods. The democratic governments of 2007-2010 and the democratic government of 2014-16 have twice substantially increased excise duties on these goods. And businesses that want to make money on counterfeit goods are starting to set up smuggling. And that's what we have to fight with. Because raising excises gives us a reduction in the number of alcoholics, smokers, for the first time in years of independence, and it fills the state budget and they want to use smuggling. We have to fight this, so we support this bill, which is designed to make smuggling impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Victor Pinzenik. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u117	Honorable colleagues, as discussed in this law. For illegal, tax-free, imports of alcohol and tobacco products, criminal liability is foreseen. Please tell me, what difference did alcohol or gasoline or light cars bring in, or meat or candy? This is about tax avoidance. If we foresaw criminal responsibility, it must be the same in all cases of smuggling of goods, not just of one position. The other one. If we're talking about tax avoidance, what difference does it make when you import or inside the country. He's got to be the only one. Thus, the law is directed at only one thing in the drafted edition: It will result in a change in the distribution of proceeds from smuggling to smugglers. At this point, the law does not answer the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Andrew Antonishtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u119	Respectable Society! I was one of the members of the temporary investigation committee on the events in Zakarpatta and I saw where the smuggling led. It was blood, it was violence. And this could not only have happened in Zakarpat, it could have happened in Lvivsk, Volinsk, Chernivecki, where smuggling flourished. So the bill is correct, it is timely, because smuggling has reached the highest peaks in the state and is a threat to the state. That's why I'm asking you to accept the bill in the first reading. Between the first and the second readings, we will complete it with these suggestions. Yes, I agree that not only do alcohol and cigarettes need to be written down, but we need to include the whole group of underpriced goods. And one more thing, a respectable society. I want to turn and support Mr. Rosenblatt here, and not only do we need to turn to smuggling, but what causes smuggling is low, very low wages for border guards and customs. As long as they're chewing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u120	Please, 30 seconds, finish it, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u121	As long as border guards and customs buy their money in uniforms, as long as they get 2,000 dollars, that's what we're going to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u123	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, no doubt this law must be adopted today in the first reading. Since this is a matter of national security, of national economics, it is a matter of real importance, including the international image of Ukraine. It is well known that for many years the territory of Ukraine has been used by all thieves just as a transit territory for the transit of smuggled cigarettes and alcohol from Asia to the European Union. Today, Ukraine joins the European Union, and we must stand on guard for our own national interests. But what I'm saying is that we can't handle smuggling just by adopting this law. Friends, smuggling can be overcome not only by laws but also by unquestionably law - enforcement activities. And to do that, we need to reform the State Fiscal Service today, reform the Ukrainian State Customs, make it institutionally capable to stand on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u124	Thank you. Last speech, John Kirilenko, and we're going to the vote. Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u125	Thank you, Mr. Head, for giving the word to the factions again. I want to pay attention to a speech by one of our colleagues, who rightly said, friends, smuggling two kinds of taxpayers is not the solution. In its time, the Ukrainian meat sector was destroyed by a smuggling, so-called, 25 cent per kilogram parchment, the meat sector was destroyed whole in the land of agrarian, vegetative, fruit-fruited, fruit-trees destroyed by the smuggling of fruit-fruit production, resulting in the smuggling of its sugarcane time. Andrew Volodymyrovich, a colleague's right, this law cannot be selective. You need a comprehensive anti-smuggling law and everything, only then can order. And plus, the second question that colleagues say correctly, the economic methods really have to fight. The difference in prices between different countries, the difference in wages and, of course, the responsibility is, first of all, economic, not criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u126	Thank you. Final word, Valérie Paccan. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the Hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u127	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, I emphasized in my speech that we want to unify a number of legislative acts and expand the borders of smuggling by other goods. This will not apply solely to the excise goods of tobacco, alcohol. The task force will work. I invite all national deputies to participate in the work of the working group and to work on a normal legislative act that will stop smuggling in Ukraine. I really want everyone to stop ploughing on smuggling, and now the vote in the session room is going to show who's fighting smuggling, who's going to back the bill on the ground, and who's "crippling" is not going to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. Please all support the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with your permission, as long as the deputies come in, and I'm sure they're coming in, not coming out of the hall, I'm asking you to invite all the deputies who are in the towers to come into the hall, take jobs. And let me tell you a few words. Mr. Ivan! Mr. Ivan Kirilenko, including you. Colleagues, this bill is actually one of several that has been submitted. Other bills suggested that all excise goods should be comprehensively deprived of administrative misconduct and be criminalized. But we gave one to make it just a playground for the second reading. The problem of smuggling in all parts of Ukraine is extremely important, both in Zakarpat, and in Volina, and in Lviv. But another terrible thing is that smuggling is sometimes used through Ukrainian territory to provide goods, including goods, in occupied territories. And I've been approached by security officials, field agents, honest guys who went to the Security Service to give them tools for operating daily work, because today it's easier for smugglers to buy off than to stop smuggling to pay a fine than to stop smuggling flows. We're talking about a complex solution. I fully support this moment. Let's make the bills complex. But if we do not take a step forward today, we will freeze this situation for another three years. For three months and a half. And that's why I think it's important and important that we make decisions and give tools to our honest, loyal law enforcement officers so that they can stop smuggling so they can give criminal responsibility to those people who organize and smuggle. And I'm sure that the parliament on this issue should allow the working group to work on the second reading and the second reading to take into account all of these suggestions that were made in the hall. And so, dear colleagues, I urge everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote to take a responsible decision by a large group of deputies from different factions. Ready? I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of the smuggling of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products (number 3254). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:36:50]] For 211 I'm asking you to include the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 100, "National Front" – 52, "Resurrection Block" – 0, "self-help" – 21, Radical Party Lachka – 1, "Fatherhood" – 4, "Party Renaissance" – 4, "Will of the People" – 9. Dear colleagues, may I put you back? Can I count on Fatherland to give more votes? Colleagues, Mr. John, no, right? None. Dear colleagues, if there are no votes, we'll follow the procedure. But my deep belief is that we have to be more responsible here, as long as we don't accept it as a whole. Colleagues, well, colleagues from B.P.P., your two deputies are coming out! Well, isn't there anyone who would be an ideal smuggler who would go up and say, "Boys, don't come out of the hall?" Is there no one who would stop people in a minute before the vote? We either work together and work together responsibly, or we don't make decisions. When there's a bill of some MP, he comes running to me and he wants to put it up now and then. When there are other bills, they just disappear from the hall. So I ask you very much to go back to the hall and prepare for the vote. And, Your Honor, I ask you once again to prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of the smuggling of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products (3254). Whoever's fighting smuggling, please vote. 3254, return. Please. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote! [[13:39:05]] For 215 I'm putting another motion for a vote under the Rules: on the committee to prepare for the re-reading. It's supported, isn't it? The next proposal is to return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. I'm asking my colleagues to mobilize, I'm asking you to take part in the vote. So I'm voting for a proposal to send to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the criminalization of the smuggling of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products (number 3254). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote 3254. [[13:40:04]] For 228 Decision taken. I call on the authors, the committee to prepare, and we'll expect that next time there will be more understanding in the room of the need to fight smuggling. Thank you. Let's go to the next section of the agenda. These are draft laws -- second reading. Second reading. There aren't many of them, I see, there aren't many amendments. Let's try to work effectively. So the following is the daily draft of the Act amending the Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of ATO (for the uninterrupted activities of local self-government bodies) (4048) (second reading). Is Maxim Viktorovich ready to report? And I give the floor to the report to Efimov Maxim Viktorovich. Please, I'm asking the deputies. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm going to make a line because I have a speech. And please don't leave the hall. Dear colleagues, when there are few people in the room, it is not up to me to turn to other fellow MPs, especially those around you. And it is very often called upon that there should be deputies so that they do not go to meetings. They take photos on Fridays, and they are posted on Facebook. We need to contact them so that they can be in the hall and work. And I hope that now we will all focus our attention so that the deputies will be in the hall and make decisions, not stop our work on Tuesday, society. What will happen on Wednesday and Friday? I'm asking everyone to call in, prepare for a decision. And the reporter, Efimov Maksim Viktorovich, please report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national MPs of Ukraine, the honourable voters! On April 12, 2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist operation, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Kuril, Halasyuk, Ledovian, Boyko, Weselova, Efimo, Long, Mustafa Najem, Matheichenko, Nedava, Lubinec, Gerasimov, Matvienkov. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the Explanatory Note, is to review the provisions of the Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorist Operation, through editorial changes in article 4, paragraph 4, concerning the prohibition of the change of the direction of a legal person and the composition of its founders for the period of the anti-terrorist operation, the location of which is an appropriate territory, with the separation of those areas where local elections took place in accordance with the Law on Local Elections. The bill also proposes that the exemption should be granted for the use of land owned by state and municipal property, as well as for rentals of utility and state property owned by operators operating in the territory of an antiterrorist operation. In addition to the areas in which the local authorities exercise authority, they are elected in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections. In the process of preparing the bill for second reading, 12 amendments were made to the right of the legislative initiative, of which 10 comments and suggestions by members of the committee were proposed to be taken into account in full, in part, or editorially, two were rejected. In the course of the drafting of the bill for second reading, together with the Ukrainian National Deputies, the authors of Bills 3821 and 3821-1, which also provided for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation, and worked out a harmonized draft of the bill. The essence of these rights is that restrictions on registration, land tax benefits and State property rent benefits are to apply to landowners who are located in populated areas in territories whose public authorities temporarily fail to exercise their authority and in populated areas on the collision line. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is obliged to approve and ensure its timely updating. The project is initiated by the General Legal Administration with observations. On 20 April of this year, the committee adopted a decision: a comparative table for the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist operation, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Kuril, Halasyuk, Ledovsky and other Ukrainian National Deputies, to support with regard to technical and legal observations. To consider the Supreme Council and to suggest that it be accepted in the second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision and take it on second reading and generally as a law that takes into account technical legal observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are only two amendments to this bill. So we're going to go to the vote in just a few minutes. So I ask those deputies who have just left the hall to return to the hall and prepare for the vote. We're just going to reject the overwhelming bills just because the MPs have more important things to do, some deputies than to do their direct duties. So let's move on to the discussion of this bill. Rejected amendment number 7 of the Martovick People's Deputy. Does he insist on discussing and voting? Martovitch. No, it doesn't. Next amendment 11, People’s Deputy Lensky. Does Lensky insist on discussing the bill? No, he insists. We only had two adjustments. We can go to the vote. I ask you to invite a fellow MP into the hall, prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions, I ask the deputies to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Since the discussion was brief, I give you one minute so that factions' heads can call MPs into the hall, one minute before the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I ask everyone once again to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, before we put this bill to the vote, with your permission, I will conduct a rating vote on how much we are capable of making a decision. Any agreement on all factions? There's a deal, right? So, as to whether the room is ready to make decisions. So I'm putting up a rating vote. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to participate in the rating vote. Dear colleagues, please vote, please take part in the vote. [[13:49:10]] For 210 There are 15 people missing. Can we invite them into the hall now, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, once again, maybe not everyone has arrived, shown me. Is there no objection? Nobody thinks I'm speculating on that right? Colleagues, I'm asking you to focus. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and enter the hall, which is in the towers. Call the deputies to the hall. I'll recheck the level of mobilization in the hall, colleagues. I'm re-voting. I'm asking you to take part in it. I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Please vote, colleagues, vote. We're voting on the rating vote. [[13:50:18]] For the 220. I think we can make a decision, colleagues. I think if we give 30 seconds now and get all the deputies together, we can make a decision. Colleagues, I'm asking you very much to invite the deputies into the hall, we're literally missing 3-4 votes. I'm asking you to come to the MPs' room. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies immediately. And the factions' heads please help mobilize the deputies in the hall. Colleagues, please sit down, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I ask you not to go out, but to enter the hall. Your faction supports this bill. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues, we're taking up seats. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation (4048). Please vote. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:52:24]] For 222 I see we haven't made it. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. How can you do that, colleagues? Dear colleagues, I'll put the vote back on if I don't. Please secure three votes. Secure three votes, Andry Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, mobilize, enter the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please take up jobs, please be more careful, vote. Are you ready, colleagues? So, colleagues, I put to the vote a return to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist operation (for the uninterrupted activity of local self-government bodies) (4048). Please vote for the return. Colleagues, we vote, please vote responsibly. [[13:54:16]] For 235 We're back. The next vote and I ask everyone to be seated. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of ATO (4048) in second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we vote, we vote. [[13:54:56]] For 227 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the authors. Here's the next one. Andrija Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, on behalf of the people of Ukraine, welcomes me personally. And I want to draw attention to the responsibility of the faction of the Radical Party, which, despite blocking the rostrum, voted in favour of this decision. The next one is draft Law 2696. The report is from Alona Ivanovna. Is there Alona Ivanovna's Shkrum in the hall? Attention, Alona Ivanovna's Skrum, is she in the hall? Did she know Alona Ivanovna’s Skrum that the bill that she was about to report was next? I ask you to pay attention to the faction of Fatherland that when it comes to the question and report, and the author is a member of your faction to be in the workplace, and the second time I ask you to be more careful in this consideration. Without an author, we can't put a bill on the table, so we're putting it off. I now give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please make an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u131	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished journalists, the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional association asks all of you to join the "Mommy on the Front and Back" photo exhibition in the towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This photo exhibition is dedicated to Mother’s Day, which was recently celebrated in Ukraine. And likewise, we want to emphasize that since the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution (1325) "Women, peace, security" has been gone for 15 years, but the situation remains far from ideal and from the conflict at Donbassa, inspired by the Russian Federation, the aggressor country, the most suffering of Ukrainian women who bear on their shoulders a very serious burden for the establishment of peace in Ukraine. So please join us. And what we're saying is that at the opening of this show, there's going to be our heroin women who are mobilized, but they're moms and they're still there. They are able to raise their children remotely. Thank you and please join us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-17-m0.u132	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we had a very fruitful discussion. We made important decisions. And according to the Rules, our work of the morning session comes to an end. I call on all deputies at 4: 00 a.m. to be disciplined in the hall to continue our work. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you, colleagues.
