ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u1	Dear fellow MPs, good morning! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, and prepare for registration. Good morning. Are you ready for your registration? Please register. [[10:04:23]] There were 334 deputies registered in the hall. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, (pay attention!) A historic event occurred yesterday: The European Commission proposed that the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union cancel visas for Ukrainian citizens. This is a major achievement primarily of the millions of Ukrainians who went out on the Ukrainian stage two years ago with slogans, "Ukraine is Europe." And this is a huge credit to our heroes, who today, in the trenches under Shirokino, Audio, Sands, Happiness, across the eastern front with weapons in their hands, defend the Ukrainian state and our European choice. I would like to point out that it was the Ukrainian Parliament that approved all the laws necessary for the visa-free regime. I had the privilege of leading a working group on the adoption of legislation on visa-free liberalisation. And I want to say that all the laws, all the challenges we faced, Parliament went through with dignity and responsibility. This is also the launch of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the launch of the electronic declaration, the improvement of the procedure for the arrest of property and the institution of special confiscation, the launch of the Ukrainian National Agency for the Search and Management of Assets, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. I would like to stress that all these laws were passed in this room and by these deputies. These are laws that have failed to approve any previous Supreme Council, no previous government. And, dear fellows, I welcome you with this important decision for our nation. Hello, colleagues, us. And I would also like to welcome today our nominee of the National Deputy of Ukraine Valery Vasilovich Packan. Welcome to our colleague, our friend, my friend. [[Applause]] And today's working day starts with an important mission of swearing by Ukrainian national deputies. New colleagues are joining our friendly group. And, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, on 20 April 2016, the Central Electoral Commission registered Ukrainian national deputies elected for the election of Ukrainian national deputies on 26 October 2014 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency of Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich, Velikin Oleg Markovich and Saurasov Maxim Vitaliyovich, who are included in the election list of the party "Blok Petra Poshenko", as well as Edaków Jaroslav Juriovich and Meparishvili Hvich Nodarovic, who are included in the election list of the political party "National Front". In accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Valérie Vitaliyovich, please, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u2	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, my commitment to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Congratulations. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Velikin Oleg Markovich, is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u4	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, my commitment to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Hello. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savrasov, Maksim Vitaliyovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u7	Heroic glory! Hello. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jedaków Jaroslav Juriovich, is invited to take an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u8	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u9	Heroic glory! To take an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Meparishvili Hviča Nodarovic, is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u10	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare of the country, the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u11	Heroim Slava! I welcome our colleagues, and I would like to immediately read out my statements to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the National Deputy of Ukraine, Meparishvili. Statement: "In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report my membership in the parliamentary faction of the "National Front" political party. And a statement from the Ukrainian national deputy Jedaków Jaroslav Juriovich: "In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputy" and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report on my accession to the parliamentary political office. The factions of the People's Front political party. Hello. Dear colleagues, we have an incredibly complex agenda today. There have been a lot of proposals from committees and factions, we've tried to maximize all of the proposals, maybe some of them haven't arrived, and we'll be looking at them during the day. But it will be very important for us to have a whole series of IMF bills, and we have a very important productive, efficient work today. Dear colleagues, I urge you all to work today with special enthusiasm and special activity. And I ask for your support in this matter. We move on to the first issue of the agenda, 2508a -- this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. And there's a proposal to consider it in a simplified way. And I, my dear colleagues, would like to ask you to prepare for the vote. Guys, can you hear me? Kombats, can you hear me? The vote will take place. The noun, we have to work! So I'm voting on the motion for a reduced procedure of 2508a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Please. [[10:15:53]] For 158. 158 for. Decision taken. That's a good start. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Justice Minister, Sklar Sergey Volodymirovich. Please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u12	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I would like to present to you a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. This project is part of a package of bills introduced by the President of Ukraine in the context of the implementation of the strategy for the reform of the judiciary, judiciary and neighbouring legal institutions for the years 2015-2020, aimed at reforming the system of enforcement of decisions by courts and other bodies. Yes, Ukraine’s draft Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Authorities sets out organizational principles for the activity of private executives. In order to consolidate the tax status of private contractors as taxpayers, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation proposes to be submitted to the Ukrainian Tax Code, which refers private contractors to persons engaged in independent professional activities. At the same time, according to the Final and Transitional Regulations, Ukraine's draft laws on organs and persons who enforce judicial decisions and decisions by other bodies and on the enforcement of their position on the activities of private contractors are put into effect three months after the law has become effective. In this context, article 2 of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code, which defines the procedure for taking effect by law, has to be aligned with the “Conclusions” and “Transients” of the bill. That is to put it this way: "This law takes effect at the same time as the Act of Ukraine "On organs and persons who enforce judicial decisions and decisions of other organs and enter into force three months from the date of entry into force of this law." Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u13	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u14	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs. The bill, registration number 2508a, reported by the reporter, suggests that the Tax Code should be supplemented by sub-paragraph 14.1.226, which, in order to tax the income of private contractors, compares it to the category of self-employed persons who carry out independent professional activities, thus standardizing their taxation of their income. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy considered the bill at its meeting. This bill is systematically related to the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading with profile in the establishment of the Institute of Private Executives by laws on organs and persons who enforce judicial decisions and decisions of other bodies, registration number 2506a, and enforcement of 2507a. Based on the committee’s consideration, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Tax Code as a whole. But, Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is possible in the case of the adoption of the following basic bills today in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u15	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna, Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna and her respected colleagues, I conducted special consultations on these three bills. There's support for the entire room. I just put the first reading first so the MPs could come. And I don't think there's going to be a violation if we adopt this bill, and then there's the next two. They have an understanding in all the halls. We'll take them in the next 10 to 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, there have been major political consultations on the bill. Is there a need to speak? Is that right? Two for, two for against, please. I'd like you to do as much as you can. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the position of the committee and its head, Mrs. Jujanina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u17	Thank you so much for understanding. The sound of Yuri, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Igor Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The People's Front MPs will clearly support this bill, 2508, on the basis and in general, and the next two are 2506, 2507, because it is a fundamental reform, a reform of the executive service. And we're finally approaching the solution to the problems that exist in the country in the execution of court decisions. The only clarification, and I'm addressing the head of the committee and the chairman. Bill 2508 lays down the date of entry into force on March 1, 2016. Bill 2508, it is inextricably linked to basic laws 2506 and 2507, and objectively cannot take effect before basic laws. In particular, 2506a. Therefore, the request, when we vote under the transcript, to take into account the position regarding the application of Law 2508a to Law 2506a and Law 2507a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u20	The Tetian of the South, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u21	I ask you to give the floor to the leader of our faction, Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u22	Good afternoon, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction, which is always on the watch for Ukrainian citizens' interests, unlike the oligarchic and regional majority, we will not vote in favour of a law that actually legitimizes collectory activity. When people call at night and get their debts out of them, threatening their families, their loved ones, no one asks if there is a way to recover them, for the government policy has led citizens to be deprived of the possibility of paying off their debts today. Therefore, private collectors, murderers, and murderers will not be supported by the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u24	Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u25	Please pass the word to my colleague, Kugel Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u26	Dear friends, I think each of you have been approached by voters on the illegal actions of an army of robbers such as collectors. We don't have a separate bill, now our faction has prepared such a bill. I invite all members of the faction, colleagues to join in the finalization of this law and accept it. But these three laws, which now stand in order of the day by private notaries, legalize the work of collectors. You know what happens now if a person doesn't pay for utilities, they come in and take away the TV, the refrigerator, even the things they wear and they take away. What are we doing? Now let us ask the Chief Executive Officer. Is he pursuing a court decision? Who gets the salary, and he has the whole state structure. No, it doesn't. And that's why I think that these laws, which they've been given, are serious premiums, that they leave some of the money behind, are not interested in the work today. Personally, as a national deputy, I have been asking the Chief Executive Officer for two years to comply with the ruling of the court. They don't. We need to reform, not give them extra money, and we need to create a private company of people who are going to take the last cents from people who can't afford these robberies today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u27	Thank you. One minute, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! I now ask you not to support this legislative initiative, both the bill now under consideration, 2508a and the two subsequent bills. In addition to the legalization of collectors, as previous speakers have said, who will in fact be given all the powers of the State executive service. What will be the consequences of the adoption of the bill? All the best personnel, believe me, I've worked for the State Executive Service, I know what I'm talking about, all the best personnel will be transferred to these structural units, we'll actually destroy the State Executive Service. Just think about a bill that will be considered further if the burden is on. A private company is more than 20 per cent higher on social benefits and will not be accepted. In fact, they are elite units that will engage in commercial activities, and they will only carry out all property disputes, but not social security, not pension recovery, social payments. Don't support it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u29	Please, one minute, Andrew Illenko. Then Ruslan Knazevich. Final or not? Yes, Sidorovich. Please, Andrew Illenko. One minute out of the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u30	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Well? You know, looking at these legislative initiatives that we're now being offered, there's a sense that there are smart people who say, let's eliminate the state at all, let's eliminate everything completely, the public authorities, everything will be private, and then it'll be non-corruption and good. Yeah, well, we're going to see now how private enforcement agencies of the oligarchs are going to be creating decisions of the courts that are going to do collectory work that are going to take property by raiding, and that's going to stop, and there's not going to be any administration. I don't know where or what we're pushing the state into. We just want to get into every city in every village of conflict? We want to get a fight when there's no one to complain about, is there no way to stop it? I think that these things, they just destroy, they degrade the state today. We need to move away from this practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u31	Thank you. Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u32	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, let me make a little remark, including the leadership of Parliament. I find it absolutely unacceptable to consider a bill that comes out of the two bills that follow it. Depending on whether we're going to adopt those bills and where the texts are, we can go to this bill. Because this bill is for the enforcement of those laws. And it's very bad that we have the same question, in fact, we have two committees to solve. The other two laws, which are basic, professional, are decided by our committee, which is relevant to this issue. And this question was given to a tax committee that probably doesn't know the whole system to the end. So we have this discussion, it's totally unnatural. But, my friends, you know, I have this kind of rain, and I remember this discussion when we started a private notary institution. The same was true: fears, intimidation, and so forth. Now the institute has come to its senses, and I'll tell you that as a percentage, it's much more effective than the Institute of State Notaries. The same holds true for us with the private performers ’ institute. Moreover, I ask you not to forget that the Institute of Private Executives of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u33	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u34	Ukraine introduces the EU Directive as part of the Association with the European Union and as part of a Memorandum of Cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. This commitment we made many years ago remained six months before it was fulfilled. Andrija Volodymyrovich, I would like to ask, because this law really doesn't synchronize with those, let's, at best, take it as a basis, we'll take it as a whole. And then I'd ask our committee to join and have the ability to influence its content for second reading. Because it's very important if we don't, we're balancing the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In listening to the speeches of our individual colleagues who are trying hard to criticize the proposed reform, I have a very simple question. And how many of you have tried as an average citizen to enforce a court decision in a state executive service that is short-lived, inefficient, and that has been unsuccessfully reformed for more than 20 years? I'll only tell you one hand. The countries of the Baltic, Poland, Bulgaria, Georgia, which, in their development, did not go to the head in their reforms, but twice as far as they did, carried out this reform 10 and 20 years ago. So there's one very simple question, or we're moving forward in the country's development, and we're ensuring that citizens have access to quality service, or we're still stepping in and we're conserving that fast corrupt state of things that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, the discussion is over. Please enter the hall and take up jobs, prepare for the decision. The factions are all in the hall, MPs? So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for private contractors) (2508a). Whoever supports this proposal to adopt this bill as a basis, please vote. It's based on 2508a. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:32:35]] For-170. Colleagues! Please turn on the factions, please show the factions on the board. I'd like to talk to you about that. I'm willing to put once on the return, once, but I'm asking you to exchange your thoughts on how we're going to get on with it. Ruslan Knyazevich, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u38	Andry Volodymyrovich, this is what I said, we didn't have to look at this bill until we decided on the principle of setting up this institution. If the institute is introduced, I don't see a problem right now, even if we don't now support this issue in that case, if we vote for the next two laws, we won't have any choice but to make changes to the Tax Code and anticipate taxation of this profession. Well, we don't want these people to work or pay taxes, that's insane. So I think we should try to put, if we don't, let's go now to the reform itself, see what we're going to get out of, and then we're going to have to react accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u39	I want to ask the People's Front, 39 is the position, isn't that discipline? Does it make sense to go back or not? I'll bet on a return one time. Dear colleagues, I propose to return to consideration of 2508a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 2508a back. [[10:34:39]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Then, according to the Rules, I will propose to return that law to the committee for further work. Who supports the proposal to return 2508a to the committee for further work, please vote. To the Knjazewicz Committee, yes! [[10:35:12]] For-182 The decision is not taken. And the final offer is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:35:36]] For 205 The proposal is not supported, bill 2508a is rejected. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is the second reading, 2506a. This is a draft of the Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Judgments and Decisions of Other Authorities. I invite the head of the committee's committee on the legal policy of justice, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u40	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, a bill of 2508a that we didn't vote on, I think we'll go back to it again if there's a positive vote under the basic laws of 2506a and 2507a. As far as Bill 2506a is concerned. On February 18, 2016, the Committee considered the bill. A total of 357 rights and suggestions came to the Committee. For their committee-based work, a working group was set up to be attended by representatives of all proposals and amendments, representatives of the President's Administration, the Ministry of Justice, public experts. According to the Committee's review, 130 rights are counted, 25 of them are edited, 12 are partial, 227 are rejected. Also, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that since the meeting of the committee, after the final text has been processed, there have been two small proposals to the comparative table, which I think are absolutely correct, which also requires your support and consideration. I want to read them under the transcript right now. It's in the second part of the second part of article 27 of the draft law prepared for second reading to replace the word "motivated trouble" with the words "motivated regulation." Similarly, with a view to ensuring the enforcement of decisions of the courts, where they are debtors of the territorial bodies of the Ministry of Justice, section 4, paragraph 3, is proposed to supplement paragraph 6 of the draft, sub-paragraph 6: in paragraph 14 of article 1 of the Act on the State Registration of Legal Persons, Individuals of Entrepreneurs and Public Forms, paragraph 3, in the following form: the territorial bodies of the Ministry of Justice in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, in the context of the national registration of the primary local, district, regional and republican trade unions, their organizations and the unification of the structural formations, the political parties, the regional, local, sub-communitions, the district and republican branches of the labour community. Paragraph 4 delete. In connection with this paragraph, the fifth, the tenth, is considered to be paragraphs 4 and 9. This is the content of the law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the second reading and in general, taking into account what I've heard under the transcript and taking into account technical legal processing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a number of amendments have been made. Please remain in the rostrum. I will only read the amendments that were rejected by the committee. 1 – Hairdresser. Is it insisting? Dowbenko. Don't insist. 5th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 6th, Melniczuk. Don't insist. 7th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 8th, Agafone. Don't insist. What is the correction? 2nd? Storobug. The 2nd amendment is Storob, it's counted. It's 2506a. 2506a, 2nd Amendment accounted for, Storobug. So 11-a, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 17th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 25th, Semenha. Don't insist. 26th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 30th, Melniczuk. Don't insist. 38th, Knazevitch. Don't insist. 39th, Ruslan Sidorovich. Don't insist. 44th, Spinov. Don't insist. 49th, Storob. Don't insist. 50th, Captain. Don't insist. 52nd, Popov. Don't insist. 54th, Captain. Don't insist. 55th Semenha. Don't insist. 56th, Captain. Don't insist. 57th, Pinzenic. Mr. Victor, 57th. I'm asking the camera to bring Victor Pinzenic the text. Don't insist. 58th, Captain. Don't insist. 59th, Popov. Don't insist. 60th, Captain. Don't insist. 62nd, Captain. Don't insist. 65th, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 53rd, Pinzenic. Don't insist. 56th, Spanov. Don't insist. 69th, Lensky. Don't insist. 70th, Hero. Don't insist. 71st, Agafone. Don't insist. 72nd Bird. The bird, please turn on the bird microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that you and I have adopted the State Service Act, according to which all civil servants will be selected for the competition. Article 10 and the amendment, it sets out the requirements that apply to government executives. And just to be consistent, I propose my amendment to establish that the state executive will be appointed to the post as a result of the competition for this position. The manner in which the contest is held will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, if we introduce a private performer institution with you, it is appropriate to align private artists with government performers and government contractors to set the same requirements as private performers. If we really want to ensure equality in rights and competitive 2 institutions. So I'm asking you to support my amendment 72. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, you insist on confirmation. Please comment, reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u44	Dear Mrs. Victoria, the committee is proposing that your amendment be rejected, and the committee's motivation was as follows. Because government contractors are actually government officials, and because this is a general statement, and the selection of government officials for public office is carried out in accordance with the Act on State Service and the one that will become effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u45	Thank you. We got an explanation from the committee. And I'm putting to the vote 72 amendments to the People's Chamber of Birds. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[10:44:35]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. 73rd, Scrum. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u46	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you, colleagues. I actually have all the amendments, they're going to be very important from the point of view of implementation of the State Service Act, which goes into effect on May 1, literally in a few weeks. This one, it's technical. Look, I suggest you replace the word "executive employees" with "employees." And I'll explain why. Because workers can include, for example, people who perform service functions. Under the State Service Act, they're assigned in a completely different way. There might be people who aren't government officials who are, for example, gonna be press secretaries in the executive service or something. So we actually have to or we need to make it clear that we're talking about officials or we're talking about everyone. We're talking about civil servants here. I suggest you support this technical exercise, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u47	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u48	Mrs. Helena, thank you for your support. But in fact, the motivation of the committee, I understand, was that not all of the employees of the executive services are government officials. If you said it right, especially the office staff. And that's exactly the way it was designed to divide these two categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u49	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 73rd People's Chamber of Skrum. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:46:24]] For 155 The decision is not made. 74th, Vlasenko doesn't insist. 75th, Melniczuk. Vlasenko? Does the owner insist? Really? Where is he? He's not here, yeah. I'm sorry. 75th, Melniczuk or insist? No, it's not. 76th, Melniczuk, does not insist. 77th, Melniczuk, doesn't insist. 78th, Melniczuk, 79th, Melniczuk, doesn't insist. 81st, Captain? 82nd, Scrum Olena. He insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u50	Fellows, once again, look, we're laying down the only requirements for civil servants in the State Service Act. And since May 1, this law has been in force. Here we are invited by the committee to note in this chapter that the appointment of state executives takes place in accordance with the State Service Act, taking into account the features defined by this law. So I can tell you with responsibility that in no Ukrainian law do we have any "personalities" regarding the admission of civil servants. We have a general principle: the competition and the general rule. There can be no specialities, because by making one exception for the state executive service and for government officials there, we're going to have to make hundreds of other exceptions, and then we're going to see this flow of information. This is going to be wrong, so this right here is exactly what I'm going to suggest, first of all, is that a national may be a national under 25 who has full legal education, speaks the national language, and has an internship in the field of law. Thus, these are general requirements and general terms for appointment as civil servants. This needs to be supported, otherwise it will be contrary to our reform of the public service, which has been so difficult here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u51	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u52	Your 82nd amendment was rejected due to the committee's decision to support the 80th amendment of the authorship of a number of national deputies. Therefore, we do not see any warnings in this sense, since what is the basic Law on State Service and the selection of candidates for the positions of civil servants, in particular government executives, will be carried out taking into account the basic provisions of the Law on State Service, both as an active one and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u53	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. Those who support the amendment of the 82 People's Deputy Skrum, please vote. [[10:49:14]] For-167 The decision is not made. Next item. Lechenko, 83rd. He insists. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u54	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. The bill provides that State executives are assigned to positions at the direction of the respective executives, that is, procedures that are devoid of specificity and transparency. In addition, such a selection model is contrary to the principle of the independence of the public executive as provided for in articles 4 and 9 of the project, since it makes the job dependent on the self - control of the manager. There is also no element in the appointment procedure for a DHS employee, such as testing of knowledge by testing. There's no idea of a qualified exam. In fact, if summed up, it is possible for the management of the DSB to exercise its discretion and, in the absence of an objective mechanism for the examination of professional knowledge, to appoint persons to serve as employees of the State Executive Service, which creates corrupt risks of abuse by interested entities, violates the principle of the independence of its public executioner. In my amendment, I propose a little clarification. Please add 10 seconds. That appropriate assignments in the State Executive Service are taking place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u55	You made an amendment, now the committee head will comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u56	Mr. Jury, in fact, again, I don't understand your reasoning on the purpose of supporting your amendment. You are now making a warning about the possibility of not being transparent about the appointment of state executives to the respective positions. Article 11 of part one of the draft draft draft draft draft for second reading stipulates that all appointments are carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian State Service Act. If you do not have an order of appointment transparently in accordance with the Law on State Service, make appropriate adjustments to the basic Law on State Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u57	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. Anyone who supports amendment 83 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[10:52:05]] For 118 The decision is not made. 84, Captain. Don't insist. 86, Captain. Don't insist. 88, Pinzenic. Don't insist. 90, Sažko doesn't insist. 91st, Storob doesn't insist. 92nd, Sažko doesn't insist. 95th, Captain doesn't insist. 97th, Pinzenik doesn't insist. 99th, Pinzenik doesn't insist. 105th, Vlasenko doesn't insist. 108th, Semenha doesn't insist. 110th Doubenko doesn't insist. What's that? 105th, Vlasenko. He doesn't insist. I didn't insist. 97th. I'll be right back, yeah. 97th, Pinzenic. He insists. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I'll read you the rule of law adopted in the first reading. "For ensuring the timely real implementation of the implementing document, the state executive will receive the award in the order and conditions determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. " I have a simple question. What, though, are their rewards if they receive additional rewards for the execution of judicial decisions? State contractors can't get two salaries: one is salary and the other is a percentage of the sums collected, from the execution of court decisions. Because this transforms the state executive structure into a commercial institution, and this is an organ of state executive power. I applied the 97 law, which provides for the deletion of the relevant rule of law. Please vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u59	Thank you. So whoever's supporting this number 97, People's Deputy Pinzenik, please vote. [[10:54:19]] For 169 The decision is not taken. 111th Sidorovich doesn't insist. 112th, Bird. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that private executives under this bill are required to make a qualified examination. So, apart from the fact that the Ministry of Justice will be doing the acceptance of this qualification exam, the Ministry of Justice still wants to determine how these candidates are trained to become private performers, and how they are allowed to be private performers. I think these powers for the Ministry of Justice are unnecessary, and they don't need to be granted by the Ministry of Justice, because this could lead to abuse by this body. So I propose to delete paragraph 2 of part one of article 20 and to allow candidates for private performers to learn where they want to, and a qualified exam to really do what the Ministry of Justice will say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u61	Can I comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u62	Please comment. You have a microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u63	Mrs. Victoria, in fact, your comments, your warnings in general are correct. But they can only be true if we are created and are able to work effectively on the self-governance of private performers. Until this is done, it is proposed that the provisions of the bill be established at a transitional stage. Therefore, the committee has decided to reject your amendment, given that the exclusion of provisions regarding the provision of such authorizations is not appropriate at the transitional stage of the creation of the service.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u64	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. Those who support the amendment of the 112 people's deputies, please vote. [[10:56:35]] For-137 The decision is not made. Semenha. Don't insist. 115th, Hero. Don't insist. 118th, Captain. Don't insist. 119th, Spanov. Don't insist. 122nd, Bird. He insists, doesn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, article 22 sets out how a qualified commission of private performers will be taken away. Thus, apart from the fact that the minister of justice will determine its actual composition, it is still clearly proposed that the article be edited to establish that the head of the qualifying commission will be the minister of justice or his deputy. I believe that the head of the qualification commission should be the person who actually refers to the institutions of the executive service, so I propose not to attach a clear position to the head of this qualification commission, but to establish that the head of the qualification commission will be elected by the members of the qualified commission by secret ballot. It's going to be transparent, it's going to be a normal path, democratic, to understand who's in charge of this qualification commission and to avoid any abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 122 readjustment, Ptashnik People's Deputy. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Comment, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u67	Mrs. Victoria, there's something I can't figure out, in a comparative table, your 122 readjustment, which is rejected, refers to a completely different question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u68	Is 122 on the vote or not? No, I don't. Let's move on. 127th, Spinov. Don't insist. 131st, Captain. Don't insist. 132nd Janicki. Don't insist. 133rd, Captain. Don't insist. 135th, Spanov. Don't insist. 136th, Bird. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u69	Colleagues, I'm sorry, I've just sounded the point of just 136 amendments that apply to the requirements of a qualified commission of private executives and, in fact, the heads of a qualified commission. I propose this amendment that the Head of the Qualifications Commission be not the Minister of Justice or his deputy, but that the person who will be elected by the members of this Qualifying Commission by secret ballot so that there will be no abuse. And it is clear that the capacity of the minister of justice may not allow him to carry out his activities effectively in this qualification commission. So let's allow secret ballots to determine who will lead it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u70	Thank you. Is there a need for a performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u71	Ms. Victoria, first of all, I would like to point out that your 136 rights have been rejected, especially since the text of your bill mentioned the State Executive Service of Ukraine as the central executive authority, given by the TEC, has already been eliminated by the decision of the government. And on the basis of a similar design of a qualified commission, in fact, the expert environment and the initiators of the bill, the President's Administration, and the comments, there were no warnings about this particular composition of the commission. So the proposal for a readjustment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u72	Should we put it to a vote? So who's backing up? It's 136, right? The 136th amendment of the Pteshnik People's Deputy please vote. Please vote. [[11:00:34]] For-123 The decision is not taken. 137th, Agafone, does not insist. 139th, Semimenach, does not insist. 140th, Spinov, don't insist. 141st, Pinzenik, doesn't insist. 143rd, Spanov. I'll just call your names, and you come forward if you need to. 146th, Spanov, 148th, Spanov, 150th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Well, the amendment is very simple. Not only are you introducing these bandit private contractors, but you're not regulating them, and who's going to fund their training, actually? This is not prescribed in the law, allowing them to then have the State under the law to finance the training of private contractors. So I prescribe that private artists should learn and receive appropriate qualifications at their own expense, not at the expense of the state. It's essentially an amendment. And now I'd like to address the national MPs. You know, I understand that most of the coalition, the power of today, is already tired. You don't need a normal, fair trial, a normal just police, a normal rule of law. You don't want to reform it. That's very nice of you. It's easier to privatize, give it to your private companies, right? And normally, through private companies to run the state, to make Ukraine finally into a banana republic. If you don't want this state, right? – if you want to just "wrong" it, you better tell the people to whom Ukraine is in pain at all, who are interested in Ukraine instead of finally destroying the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u74	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. No, no vote, no need. There's no need. 151st Bird. Please, Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to how private executions will be allowed. the admission of candidates for private performers to a qualified examination. Before they pass this exam, they have to be trained. The Ministry of Justice will determine the manner in which this training will be carried out. I believe that such admission to a qualification test entails certain corruption risks. Because it is clear that the Ministry of Justice will set additional requirements for such training in order to obtain a certain reward. And it is not advisable to set a requirement for the learning process, to evaluate appropriately how much knowledge they are responding to because there must be, how well the exam was done, rather than how the person was taught. So I'm asking you to support this amendment and take it away. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is precisely these changes that involve corruption risks for the application of this law and will not contribute to the reform of the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u76	Ms. Victoria, your application was rejected by the committee and, in fact, the committee does not see any corruption risks in the part of the education because the text of the bill, which is prepared for the second reading, does not directly indicate that the Ministry of Justice is setting any educational requirements, especially that education should take place in some institution that is under the Ministry of Justice. First of all, it is quite clear that the basic and determining criteria for selecting a person or a person in office will be an appropriate qualification test. And the qualification exam -- it's supposed to be anonymous, all the risks of corruption are eliminated, and I don't see in any way any corruption in the process of selecting candidates for the respective positions of executives.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u77	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote 151 the amendment of the People's Chamber of Birds. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:04:51]] For a hundred and 107 for. The decision is not made. 153rd, Melnik. 154th, Bird. You insist, don't you? It's principled. Please, 154th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u78	Again with the corruption risks. Permission to pass a qualification test. I want to point out that a person will be denied a qualification test, as drafted by this bill, if this person is not given all the documents defined by the Ministry of Justice. I don't think the Ministry of Justice should determine what documents the person who wants to take the exam should be required to make the law. Therefore, I propose that my amendment be rejected when not all the documents defined in part two of article 23 of this bill are presented, not by the Ministry of Justice. In addition, I propose this amendment to allow individuals to sue the courts for refusing to allow a person to pass a qualification test. That is when it will be democratic, and that is when individuals will not limit themselves to their rights and will not depend solely on their will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u79	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u80	154th Amendment, Mrs. Victoria? The amendment of 154 was rejected by the committee because in article 20 there is already a reference to the fact that the list of documents is established by the Ministry of Justice. And as for your conditional warnings that some state authority will determine the list and, provided that any candidate will not allow, well, excuse me, there is one general procedure. If you predict that there will be a situation where all the candidates will be in difficult situations. Do you think that there will be any additional documents for one candidate and no additional documents for all others? There will be a single list of documents that will be distributed to all candidates who have shown a desire to make a qualified examination.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u81	Do you insist on voting? Who supports the 154th amendment of the People's Chamber of Birds, please vote. [[11:07:41]] For-129 The decision is not made. 160th, Captain. 162nd Semenha. 164th, Semenha. 166th, Spanov. 168th, Semenha. 170th, Bird. 173rd, Vlasenko. 174th, Dovbenko. 177th, Lensky. 181, Storobubu. 182nd Bird. 183rd, Vlasenko. 185th, Dovbenko. 188th, Spanov. 189th, Dovbenko. 190, Dovbenko. 191st, Dovbenko. 192nd, Vlasenko. 197th, Spanov. 198, Sphinx. 199, Semenha. 202, Levechenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u82	The bill is completely devoid of legal certainty as to the requirements of the private contractor's office. The issue of the storage of funds, securities, or other values that are removed from the debtor is not properly settled as a result of the execution of a further transfer to the retractor. In fact, few of these private armies of aunts are legalized, yet when they take something away from people, and then in some magical way it disappears somewhere, they won't point to anyone to blame. Therefore, I propose in my amendment that the Ministry of Justice be obliged to develop an appropriate position that will regulate, in effect, the workplaces of private performers. In addition to this amendment, I would like to ask the chairman. Mr. Chairman, may I have your attention? Mr. Chairman! Andrew! Can I have your attention, please? Thank you. I'd also like to add to this amendment the amendment of the 150th past regarding sources of financing for private education. Because unfortunately, after I've reported, there are some deputies here instead of following the legal process.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u83	I'm voting on the 155th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:10:06]] For the 110. The decision is not made. And the 202nd amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:10:27]] For-98 The decision is not made. 206, Storobubu. 210th Semenha. 213, Vlasenko. 214th, Bird. 217th, Vlasenko. 218th, Storob. 219, Sažko, 221 – Denisenko. 223, Agafone. 224, Agaphonova, 225 Agafone. 227, Denisenko. 228, Semenha. 229th, Dovbenko. He insists. Please, Doubenko. 229th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u84	Yeah. Article 36 stipulates that private contractors are obliged to open accounts in government banks. I believe that such a rule is a direct intervention of the State in the relationship of the subjects of farming. This distorts the competitive environment. What's more, we're breaking the Economic Competition Act. In particular, Article 2 of this Act states that anti-competitive actions by authorities, in particular, recognize the direct or indirect coercion of operators to make contracts of different and all kinds of insistence. So I ask you to take this into account. And we also have to say that we're also violating this fragile situation in the banking system right now because it's moving towards a bad situation. We believe that by giving priority only to individual ones, by separating them, we make things worse, so I ask my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u85	Please, Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u86	Thank you for your comment, but in fact, when we discussed this issue at the committee meeting, there was really a lively discussion about this amendment, and finally the committee decided to reject it, given that, in the opinion of the committee, opening accounts in state banks would contribute to greater protection of the costs of running sides from the risk of liquidation of the bank. You can see the situation with the banking system. And given that the cost of a retractor will be stored in these accounts for the purpose of executing the execution, there is a risk of a corresponding failure by the withdrawal of funds in the event of the failure of banks to pay. So it's proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u87	Do you insist on voting? Whoever supports the amendment of the 229 People's Deputies of Doubenko, please vote. [[11:13:34]] For-119 The decision is not made. 232nd Semenha. 235th, Semenha. 237th, Captain. 239, Semenha. 240, Semenha. 243, Hero. 245, Semenha. 254, Captain. 259, Captain. 260, Schrum. It's very important, isn't it? All right, please talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u88	Thank you. This is the last amendment I'm going to put on confirmation. Colleagues, what's the question? This is a question of the disciplinary commission and of whom it consists. Now it's just written that the disciplinary commission is made up and has the right to appoint a disciplinary commission of persons of its own representatives, judges, judges in retirement, scientists, experts. Again, in accordance with the Law on State Service in accordance with general principles, I believe that it is better to write down a specific composition and to make a choice only in some members of the disciplinary commission. But to prescribe a specific composition so that there is no abuse and no possibility of assigning anyone, in fact. Therefore, I propose that nine members, three of whom are appointed by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, including a minister or a deputy, by a four - part meeting of private executives, are appointed by one of the judges and the authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. Well, actually, there can already be judges in retirement, representatives and lawyers, legal experts and so on. Let's just define this clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u89	Ms. Helen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that part three of article 39 of the bill, prepared for second reading, contains a comprehensive list of who is assigned to the disciplinary commission. Therefore, the argument that a disciplinary commission is formed from whom is not known is entirely groundless. Part three of article 39, table before second reading. It's all set up there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u90	Thank you. Are you insisting? Put it to a vote? Don't insist. Thank you. Jack, 261, Agafone. 265, Semenha. 270, Storob. 272, Semenha. 278, Semenha. 279, Janicki. 286, Semenha. 291, Janicki. 301, Captain. Don't insist. 302, Captain. Don't insist. 312, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 314, Denisenko. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we're done. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. In a few minutes, a decision will be made on an extremely important bill. I'm asking the supporters of this bill inside the factions to prepare the MPs as much as possible in the hall. 122, sold. Don't insist. 324, Sold. Don't insist. 330, Bird. Don't insist. 331, sold. Don't insist. 332nd Melniczuk does not insist. 337. Birds don't insist. 344, don't insist, it's sold. 353, Captain, don't insist. Dear colleagues, and 356th, Vlasenko, last amendment. Turn on the microphone, one minute. And I would like to stress that in a minute there will be a vote. And I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. Please, Birdie, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u91	Colleagues, I wanted to go back to one of my only repairs: 170. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill actually proposes to divide the territories by different private contractors. Because we are talking about the fact that in the report of the beginning of his activity, a private performer will necessarily have to mark the performing district in which he intends to carry out his activities. It's a regulator, it's a constraint. It will not promote competition between private contractors. And if it does not promote competition, it will not actually promote competition for quality of service, for its pay. And that's not exactly going to lead to this reform. Please do not restrict the activity of private performers to a certain territory and to a certain executive body for which it will be secured and exclude the relevant provisions of Article 26. This is the 170th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u92	Ms. Victoria, the motivation of the committee for rejecting this amendment was that, in fact, one of the performers for objective reasons would not be able to make decisions throughout Ukraine because if we did not determine the link to a certain executive district. Moreover, if such a situation is hypothetical and done, it will significantly increase the artificial cost of executive conduct. Moreover, in order not to make such a wide discretion for private performers at this transitional stage in view of the fact that certain performers may be there in Lviv, but to make decisions about other areas there, there are also questions about limiting them to districts that will actually be geographically linked to those or other territorial administrative units. So the committee's proposal to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u93	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Okay. Amendment 170 of the Ptachnik People’s Deputy is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:20:29]] For-136 The decision is not made. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I need to consult with you. An extremely important bill, a huge amount of work was done in preparation. And it can only be broken because there is no discipline. I want to ask. Is "Paternity" supporting him or not, Helen? [[B in m in s a l in]] Doesn't support it, yeah. No, me. The discussion is over. Self-help supports, yes. Peter Prashenko's Block, Yuri Vitaliyovich, Yuri Vitaliyovich? Is the bill supporting the Peter Prashenko Block? [[B in m in s a l in]] Supports or Not? There are voices for that, right? The People's Front supports it. The Radical Party doesn't support it, does it? "The will of the people," "Rebirth"? It's just that it's not going to be the trend of our deals yesterday, it's completely out of trend, you know. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, there is a rating vote to determine the potential of any vote. Yes, Yegor, this is the offer and request of your faction. And so, dear colleagues, I very much ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Authorities 2506a, rating. Dear colleagues, please take part in the 2506a vote, please vote. Please vote. [[11:23:29]] For 213 I'm asking you to show by factions. Dear colleagues, I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I'll take advantage of the practice. Now we have two bills in a packet, actually, that support each other. I will now offer in connection with the low mobilization in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Please listen carefully to me! Go to the next bill is 2507a. After this bill, vote on both bills. During this period of discussion of 2507a, I would like to ask as much as possible to mobilize the factions so that we can then carry out two votes on two bills, which actually complement each other. Is there an agreement in the hall? Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to announce, for consideration, 2507a, the draft law on executive conduct. And I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy and justice, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u94	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Similarly, the 2507a bill, which was defined by the President as urgent and envisions a comprehensive fundamental reform of the executive service and the system of implementation of decisions of the public authorities, was adopted as a basis. It was followed by 502 offers and revisions. According to the February 17, 2016, 296 amendments and proposals, of which 45 were edited and 12 were partially taken into account, were rejected. I would like to point out that the work under bill 2507a, as well as the work of 2506a, was the creation of a working group, which included all the authors of proposals and amendments. We were able to discuss in detail all of these proposals. And the committee recommends this bill as a second reading and as a whole as a committee. The only thing I want to point out under the transcript is that once the table was approved for the second reading, after being processed by the technical units of the Supreme Council, there was one proposal, an amendment to the need for one procedure. In this regard, I would like to note from the transcript that, in order to determine the order of the court for the application to the debtor of the case, appropriate changes should be made to article 375 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. In view of what section 13, paragraph 3, paragraph 9, of the project, the end and transitional positions are proposed to be supplemented by a new "e" sub-paragraph. In article 375, the name and part of the first part are given in the following wording: Article 375. Solving the question of declaring a search for a debtor or a child, the reason for the debtor. Part one: the debtor’s or the child’s search, the debtor’s cause is announced at the place of the decision or the last known place of residence, the debtor’s or the child’s whereabouts, or the whereabouts of their property, or the whereabouts of the retractor. In part two and third of this sex, the word "state" is deleted. In this connection, sub-paragraphs "e" to "l", sub-paragraph 9, paragraph 3, of section 13 of the project are considered to be sub-items "e" to "m". Table ready for second reading, ready to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Rules do not provide for the second reading to be amended by the transcription, and therefore. And so now we're going to go to the table. We'll go to the table. Let's go to the table vote. I'm asking for six amendments, National Deputy Doubenko, are you insisting? National MP Doubenko doesn't insist, he's missing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u96	Colleagues, the term here is "reasonable times of execution of executive conduct." Well, what's this novel, friends, "sensibility of terms"? Tell us, will we ever get justice in the courts for this disciplining of public and private executives? Well, that's impossible! That's why it's "reasonable terms." I'm asking you to support my work, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u97	Let's put an amendment to the vote, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, your 6th ruling has been rejected because the category of "observance" is not a principle, but a duty. For example, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms refers to the reasonableness of time periods, such as a principle. So this formulation, which was really suggested by the President in the first reading, we think is absolutely correct and there are no warnings about its contents.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u99	Colleagues, let us put this amendment to the vote. Vote. [[11:30:59]] For the 120th. 120 votes. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 14 numbers, as well as the People's Deputy Doubenk. You insist, Mr. Doubenko, 14th? Don't insist. Amendment number 15, People's Deputy Sidorovich. Are you insisting, Mr. Sidorovich? Mr Sidorovich! Don't insist. Amendment number 17, People's Chamber of the Watchman. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 23, People's Deputy of The Watchtower. Is Storobub's national deputy insisting? Don't insist. 24th Amendment, People's Deputy Sidorovich. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 34, People's Deputy Vlasenko. National MP Vlasenko is on his way to Strasbourg today. National MP Vlasenko, 40th Amendment. There is also a missing MP. 41 Amendment of the Lensky People’s Deputy The Lensky National MP insists? Don't insist. 42 Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Agaphon. Don't insist, I'm gone. National MP Vlasenko, 43th Amendment. Don't insist. People's Deputies of Semimenah, 44th Amendment. Don't insist. Thank you. National MP Sažko, 48th Amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 52 amendment, national MP Vlasenko. Don't insist. 55 amendment, national MP Vlasenko. He does not insist on being absent. 60 amendment, National Deputy Vlasenko. Don't insist. 63. Amendment of the People's Deputy Dovbenko. Don't insist. 64. Amendment of the People's Deputy Dovbenko. Don't insist. 65 Amendment of People's MP Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich. Viktor Mikhailovich does not insist. Thank you. 67 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Dovbenko. Don't insist. 70 amendment of the People's Deputies of Dovbenko. Don't insist. 75 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Dovbenko. Don't insist. 77th National Deputy Vlasenko. None. 79. Amendment of the Sage People's Deputy. The deputy's hat doesn't insist. 81 Amendment of the People's Deputy Melniczuk. National MP Melniczuk does not insist. 83. Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Agaphon. Don't insist. 84th Amendment of People's Deputy Levchenka. Please, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u100	Lewchenko, "Freedom", 223 district, m Kiev. Again, the question is that not only do we create private artists who will abuse people, but they are given colossal rights absolutely unprecedented. In particular, the bill suggests that the debtor be prohibited from using property belonging to him or her on the right of ownership, including the cost or obligation of the debtor to use it under the conditions determined by the perpetrator. So the project suggests that the contractor will determine, in fact, the mechanisms for banning the borrower from using his own property until the final withdrawal. So my amendment is to replace the executioner in this context. In order for the court to decide on specific mechanisms for prohibiting the use of property. Well, it's just, you're just driving the Ukrainian people away and it's completely in the cabal, in yours, you're finally burying it. Especially considering that the left-hand side of the debtors is in front of the banking and financial institutions, you are now giving them a private army of these private contractors. Yet, these private contractors will be able to manage their property in a calm manner. What are you doing, good people?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u101	Thank you. A representative of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u102	Mr. Yuri, I would like to point out to you that the legislation already in force provides for the drafting that is proposed in this case by the bill. So you don't have to tell us that we're now creating some extra restrictive positions for the executives. In this case, it was rejected in view of the fact that it narrows down existing civil servants ’ rights to this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor. Please support the amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Vote. [[11:36:00]] For the 180. Thank you, Your Honor. 108 votes, change declines. We're going after the repairs? There was no change. Oh, I'm sorry. Mrs. Skrum, amendment number 81, this was the amendment of Melniczuk, Skrum and Lensky. Please, Mrs. Scrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u104	Thank you, colleagues. I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to go back to 81. Look, it's now written that the debtor's prohibition on using property that belongs to him on the right of ownership, including the funds, is determined by the terms of the designated contractor. So I propose the same as Mrs. Agaphonova's further in the 83rd Amendment, just like Mr. Melniczuk, just like other lawyers. I would suggest that the determination should still be a court rather than an executioner. Please, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u105	In fact, the grounds for rejecting this amendment are going to be the same as that of 84th People's Deputy Lehchenka, because they are identical in content, and the motivation of the committee when this amendment is rejected is the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. Let us put to the vote amendment number 81 of the national deputy Shkrum, Melniczuk and Lensky. I'd like to support who's in favor. [[11:37:36]] For-123 Correction rejected. Next amendment. 86th National Deputy Vlasenko. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 93rd Amendment, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Thank you, Your Honor. 96th National Deputy Dovbenko. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 97th, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 98th People's Deputy Sidorovich. Is national deputy Sidorovich insisting? Don't insist. 99th People's Chamber of Scrum. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u107	Thank you very much. Colleagues, when performing executive conduct, a man of authority should be governed only by this law, as I believe. We specially designed this legislative act to determine all rights, duties, and procedural aspects. You're suggesting that he can use this law and other legal instruments. Let's not make possible exceptions that can be very many, let's just write all the cases in this law. So I propose that I clear up my rights with "and other legal acts" and that I regulate these relations only by this law without exception. Let's move away from practice to every rule and principle to make hundreds of exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u108	Thank you. Committee, please take your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u109	Dear Mrs. Helen, the committee is proposing to reject this amendment. You see, given that, indeed, in the current legislation, there is a number of legal regulations in force, such as the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, which determine, there, the order of arrest of transport vehicles, the order of arrest of securities (the Stock Market Securities Commission, together with the Cabinet of Ministers), and it is not possible to objectively prescribe all procedural aspects of an act or act in law. Now there's a large layer of legal regulations that work effectively in this system. Therefore, we need to provide objectively for both the law and other legal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u110	Thank you, my dear colleague. The 99th amendment is for confirmation. Vote, please. [[11:40:07]] For 101 This amendment is not confirmed. 100, National Deputy Vlasenko, declines. 103 revisions, Vlasenko. None. 104, Vlasenko. None. 105 amendment, People's Deputy Ptashnik. He insists. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, why are you and I introducing the Institute of Private Executives? Obviously because we have some problems with the effectiveness of the execution of court decisions by the State Executive Service. But at the same time, we're setting up things that will also not make the Institute of Private Executives effective. In particular, in this article 13, the point is that the description and the arrest of property will be carried out no less than on the 5th working day after receiving information, by a private performer, including his whereabouts. This creates opportunities for the borrower to hide the property. So I suggest that both state contractors and private contractors make such a description and arrest of the property of his removal no later than the next working day after his discovery and do not give any deadlines for the debtor to resell, conceal and not execute a court order, avoid liability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u112	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u113	Mrs. Victoria, I want to read your paper. You write that the description, arrest, and removal of property is carried out not later than the next working day, but later by text. Well, in particular, the committee has been warned about the disposal of property as linked to a single process of description and arrest, since there are actually very many cases where the removal of property from the borrower is not possible, especially if it is a real estate complex, a description takes place, the arrest of property, and in fact the storage remains in the same debtor. This is the first basis for deviation. And about the description and the arrest. There are two procedures: there is an arrest of property when the perpetrator can arrest property by actually using appropriate electronic registers, such as real estate; and there is when a description and arrest of property is needed, when it is necessary to get there, describe the property and then make an arrest. So to unite all three of these actions, these mandates of the performer in one line are absolutely not possible. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u114	Thank you, the position is clear. Let's bet this amendment on confirmation. Whoever supports it, we vote, please. [[11:43:03]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Amendment, moving on, amendment 107 of the Doubenko People's Deputy. Don't insist. 108th, also Deputy Doubenko. Let's have a word with you. He insists. Please give the People's Deputy Doubbenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u115	Thank you. Colleagues, my amendment refers to the fixing of the time limit once again for the executioner to carry out the appropriate executions. Otherwise, if we do not set specific deadlines, it will be difficult to reach a conclusion, and there will be no basis for accusing such individuals of being inactive. Therefore, I ask you to place confirmation on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u116	Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u117	Dear National MP, your ruling has been rejected because your right is essentially proposed to return, in fact to leave a valid version of the law in force, article 30 of the Law on Executive Conduct, which has proved ineffective. In particular, it consists of this inefficiency, which is that government executives, in order not to break deadlines, return these executing documents without execution, which does not contribute to the effectiveness of the execution of a decision. Therefore, it is suggested that the correction be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u118	Thank you. Let's put 108 amendments to the vote for confirmation. Please. [[11:44:43]] For-92 The amendment is not accepted. Next up, 109th National Deputy Sage. He's gone. 113th People's Deputy Dovbenko. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next up, dear fellows, let's go. National MP Storobubu, 125th Amendment. Don't insist. People's Deputy Doves, 133 amendment. Don't insist. 139th, Sidorovich. Do Not Urge 145th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. Very good. 155th, Birdman, National MP. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Next, 158th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I'd like to do it more intensively. Longenkov, 158th. He insists. Debenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u120	Thank you. This law applies to the exclusion of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of the Debtor’s Obligation to make a declaration on property and income. In accordance with the proposed bill, they want to introduce the debtor’s duty to make a declaration prior to the discovery of the executive guide or in the process of opening the execution. I would like to point out that the adoption of a bill in such an order would lead to the fact that the rule could not be implemented, because the consequences of the failure to sign the said declaration were not included in the bill for the first time. And second of all, we can't make a general declaration, and here's the responsibility to identify its property. I believe that the current system is still effective because of the identification of the same property status by sending out appropriate requests to determine its material status. So I ask her to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u121	Do you insist on voting? 158 amendment, Dudenkov, who supports it, please vote. [[11:47:07]] For-81 The decision is not made. 183rd Bird. Don't insist. 189th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Could you say your position immediately after 194? Please, Debenko's one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u122	Colleagues, this is about what some self-help representatives here said would lead to the adoption of this bill to the provision of high-quality services. But I would like to point out that before these high-quality services are available, you have to pay the advance fee. So the person who got the court's decision, who wants to raise a certain amount of money that he doesn't have, will not be able to open the execution until you've made the advance. It's a purely commercial activity that's focused on profit. I want to point out that the very procedure for the discovery of executive conduct and the sending of appropriate requests for the identification of property does not require any substantial property costs. Thus, to foresee the stated standard of pre-emptive obligations is simply a crime against the appropriate retractors who are hoping to make the right decisions. So I ask you to support this amendment, this is a fundamental moment in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u123	Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting on Amendment 189. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:49:08]] For-90 The decision is not made. 194th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 196, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 197th, Dudenkov. He insists. 197th, please, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u124	I'm sorry, but in 194 you missed, that's where it's rejected. I'm going to comment on 194. The point is that the bill generally excludes the institution of voluntary decision-making. That is, the following procedure is the opening of the executing process, the bill that was introduced when the implementing document was submitted, and no time frame for the voluntary execution of the debtor is given. I don't think that's right, because not all debtors are unconscionable. Accordingly, we are simply forced to keep the specified deadline, as provided for by the current Ukrainian law on enforcement, because, in fact, it is a certain period during which the debtor can carry out it voluntarily without taking measures of enforcement without imposing arrests on the property concerned. So I do propose to leave the deadline set for voluntary execution and to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u125	Do you insist on voting? Those who support Amendment 194 of the Order, please vote. [[11:50:36]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Are you insisting on 197? No, it doesn't. 200th, Dovbenko. 201st Bird. 210th, Birddog, 215th, Bird. Please, 215th Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the article 30th stipulates that the arrest of the debtor's property will be imposed within the total amount of the collection, the executive congregation, which is absolutely correct. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the arrest is proposed to also impose on the amount of possible costs of executive conduct. This formulation is totally legally incorrect, for the performer will not be able to know in advance what will be the amount of his executive expenses in connection with the execution of the execution. Therefore, in order to protect the rights of citizens, to prevent abuse by the perpetrators, it is advisable to exclude situations of arrest in the amount of possible execution costs, since the perpetrator will not understand and will not be able to clearly determine the size and thus abuse the amount to which the arrest will also be imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u127	Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u128	Mrs. Victoria, on your amendment, in fact, all costs and their size are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, this is the position enshrined in this bill. Therefore, it will not be entirely possible to determine the cost of performing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u129	This is where the minute is given to Lewchenkov, and they are the co-authors of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u130	Thank you. Well, actually, why is this very important question, what is being discussed? Because I think this element just sets a very good example of how much this law is going to be used by private contractors just for personal gain, well, their, their, in fact, leaders. Because it is suggested that part two of article 30 of the bill should be put in the form of: "The arrest of the debtor's property is imposed within the total amount of the sum of the executive assembly and the possible cost of the executive implementation." In no way is it regulated in the law itself, how does this cost of performing conduct, in fact, are checked, counted, and so on. So the private contractor will draw whatever he wants, spend and arrest the debtor's property. Well, what exactly are you people good people doing here? So my job is to take away this moment of "and the possible cost of executive conduct." Do not drive the Ukrainian people into the Cabal by this law!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues who support the issue of 215 National Deputies, Ptašnik and Levchenka, please vote. [[11:53:56]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I have a request for you. There's still a huge number of amendments, some of them just don't exist, and I'll technically read their names together. Can we go in such a way as to insist from the authors of the amendments on the rights contained in the text? Please, Levchenka, announce which pages you insist that I do not technically read dozens of pages, simply.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u132	Thank you. Look, I insist on 324th and 387th. But given what's not the procedure, I'd like to give at least to prepare for this, because you say so now. All of a sudden.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u133	Please prepare while I call. Let's get ready. I'm on my way. 223, Dovbenko. 228th, Scrum. 229th, Vlasenko. 236th, Dovbenko. 237th Sidorovich. 246th Semenha. 249, Bird. 250th, Bird. He insists. Please, Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u134	I insist on amendment 250. Colleagues, see, the bill provides for the repayment of an advance payment in the event of the downloader's executive document being returned. At the same time, article 39 does not provide for such a procedure in cases where the completion of the execution did not result in satisfying the requirements of the retractor. Thus, the rights of the retractor may be violated, as the issue of the repayment of an advance in the cases indicated is not regulated at all. Therefore, I propose that article 39 be supplemented by provisions on the return of the unused amount of the advance fee for the termination of the execution without satisfying the requirements of the retractor. And please support Amendment 250.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u135	So, who supports the 250, the Ptachnik People's Deputy, please vote. [[11:56:12]] For 121 The decision is not made. Mr. Yuri, have you prepared for your work? Please announce. Turn on the microphone to Lechchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u136	It's 324. This is about the significant corruption risks that have been put into this law again, because there are no clear rules, clear reasons that give the perpetrator reason to believe that the property in another person belongs to the rightful debtor and to enforce the removal of such property. And this amendment of mine suggests that we anticipate an appropriate position that would rule out this possible gap. I mean, what's this all about? The bill now does not specify on what grounds the perpetrator will decide that if any property is in the third, absolutely, person unrelated to the debtor, that this property is actually the property of the debtor, and it will allow very, very much, let's say, voluntary methods to enter into people, essentially steal their private property there, you know, for example, a mild household technique and so on. I'm proposing that this gap, in fact, be corrected by clearly correcting the situation. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u137	who supports the amendment of the 324 People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[11:57:36]] For-98 And I would like the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision, please, the deputies, please come into the hall. Next amendment, Lechchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u138	You know, society, frankly, what's going on right now is not that Fantasmagoria and it's some kind of laughter through tears, that is, normal corrections absolutely, that have to fix this terrible law, not that they don't vote, they don't even listen, they don't actually exist in their workplace or they walk around the hall. You realize that now, if you now vote for this bill in the way it is now, you're going to drive the Ukrainian people even more, and so followed up, into the cabal. So you're handing over the opportunity to private, once again, private performers who have no control on the part of the state, for example, to go to a third person's home and without having any argument to take her completely private things, motivated by the fact that it's the property of the debtor. You allow yourself to draw huge costs for private contractors who can then be reimbursed by debtors. What are you doing, people good? There is no way to vote on this, it's just a criminal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u139	Mr. Yuri, do you insist on voting the amendment? Call the number again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u140	387.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u141	384, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u142	387.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u143	387. Anyone who supports amendment 387 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[11:59:22]] For-126 The decision is not made. Allona Shkrum, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u144	Yes, colleagues, 325 amendments, please, I'd like to go back to her. I don't know what order we're following right now. Colleagues, we're talking about, we're talking about the possibility of bringing in the debtor's property, which is in third parties, which is not in the debtor's own possession. This article has to be written very, very carefully. So what we're talking about right now is that the performer, when the third party comes to know that they have the debtor's property, he's removing it, he's implementing it in accordance with the law. And if a person interferes with a performer, such property is removed in an orderly fashion. And it must be removed only by decision of the court. I simply point out that my amendment is similar to that of Mr. Levchenk, 324, to the amendment of lawyer Agafonov, 322, where she also says that only on the basis of the court’s approval can such property be forcibly removed from third parties. This is very important, colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u145	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u146	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u147	Who supports the 325 amendment of the People's Chamber, please vote. [[12:00:44]] For-149 The decision is not made. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u148	Thank you. My colleagues, I have two amendments that I insist on. In particular, the first of these is 278 amendments. It lays down a schedule for meeting the requirements of the retractors in the event that the amount is insufficient to meet the requirements. In particular, we use mechanisms that are inherent in bankruptcy prior to execution. But when we apply bankruptcy, there is a fair distribution of money in the court. Here, too, if we put in place a procedure for orderliness in implementing the way we do, it will allow unscrupulous debtors to fabricate court decisions and to make money to meet the demands of questionable retractors who have been attached to the procedure by such debtors. So I'm proposing not to set such a bankruptcy rate, but to meet the requirements in the calendar order of the executive documents. And please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u149	I'll ask: 277, right? 8th. That's the owner's amendment, isn't it? Who's backing the 278th Amendment, the Birdman, right? – please vote. Please vote. [[12:02:20]] For 155 The decision is not made. We still have it. Excuse me, one more, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u150	Colleagues, amendment number 360. In particular, we're talking about that if a person doesn't have ownership of the debtor's property, but he has the right to the property, especially the right to the mortgage, he also has the right to appeal to the court with the appropriate suit that is referred to in this article about the removal of property. It is therefore advisable to rule out that the basis for bringing a person's property to trial is the right to property on which the arrest is made and to clear that up is property. Because there are other property rights besides property. And rejection of these changes can limit the rights of those who own or use property, but they do not have the right to go to court and defend their rights. So I'm asking you to support the 360th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u151	360th Renovation Bird. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:03:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, under the law of the Rules, I continue for 15 minutes the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will give my word to all who wish. Colleagues, don't be nervous. I'll give my word to all those who wish. Debtenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear Chairman, this is a request: to follow the Rules, not to jump from 300 to 200. I've got 265. I'm asking her to be confirmed. This amendment is a principle because it reveals the legal essence of that institution that they are currently trying to carry out in this plenary hall, a private executive service that will not execute executing documents without making advances. Again. They say it's good service. No quality service will be provided if you do not make an overpayment, that is, an advance on the cost of performing. This is unlike the State Executive Service, where, according to current legislation, spending advances are made solely on voluntary principles by a retractor. So I would like to support this amendment in order to at least make the advance of expenses voluntary rather than compulsory. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u153	265 orders, Deputy Dudenkov. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. [[12:05:25]] For-100 The decision is not made. Doubenko, please. Turn on Doubenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u154	Colleagues, I'd like to consider just one more amendment of mine, 351. In this amendment, I propose to set up a clear mechanism for assessing the property of debtors with equal rights of the parties, a note by the retractor as to how to steer and the debtor as a result of the valuation of property. And how to ensure their right to appeal when the parties object to the definition of value. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u155	Please stress the number of the amendment again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u156	351.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the 351 amendments that support the vote, please. [[12:06:33]] For-97 Dear colleagues! In just two minutes, we'll be voting on two important bills. We want to turn to all our colleagues to mobilize, go back to the session room to give a successful vote for these bills. And now we're talking to colleagues: are there other colleagues who insist on reform? Mrs. Scrum, please. The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u158	216th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u159	216th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u160	216th. Thank you, colleagues. This is the last amendment I'm going to insist on. This is again an amendment to the fact that an arrest on the debtor’s property is imposed within the total amount of the executive congregation’s acquisition and without the possible cost of executive conduct. Because it's not clear what some of the possible cost of executive conduct is. Either you have to clearly write down how these possible costs are determined, or this is a major corrupting factor in this law. I'm sorry. And that's not just my opinion. I have just discovered the conclusion of public anti-corruption expertise under this law: prava.org.ua. It says that there are ten corrupting factors in this law. This is one of the corruption factors. The second corruption factor is that third parties are forced to remove their property without a court order or a court order, but only on the basis of a private executive's decision. Colleagues, that's the right idea. But if it is wrong to prescribe and work wrongly, we place very and very dangerous risks and very dangerous mechanisms. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, we place amendment number 216 of the Shkrum People's Deputies for confirmation. Please support who's in favor. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the Hall to vote for two important bills. [[12:08:16]] For 133 No support, 133 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, there will now be a vote on the two impeccable bills that we have discussed. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Paul Petrenko. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u163	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm asking you to support these bills. The main task of the state is to ensure justice. And this is a duty of the state to every Ukrainian citizen. Justice begins with a trial. We know we don't have a fair trial right now. And Ukrainian citizens have been going to court for years to obtain a court decision. And our joint task with you is to reform the court in the next few months. But justice likewise begins with the execution of a court decision when the Ukrainian has the right to enforce it, and the State is obliged to guarantee such execution. What do we have today? We now have an old corrupt system of judicial decisions that does not guarantee justice for Ukrainians. State performers who work on low wages, who do not have clear regulations, actually abuse their rights. This law, this package of laws has been developed with you by a large working group of representatives of all factions. We developed it over the year, taking into account the best practices of our European colleagues. This law provides for a return of justice to a simple Ukrainian in order to guarantee that he will receive justice and a corresponding compensation when he receives a court decision on behalf of Ukraine. I want to dispel those myths that sounded in the hall. In fact, this law does not provide for any collecting organizations. On all the social issues that apply to executive leadership against Ukrainian citizens, these things will be done through the State’s executive service. This law allows our entrepreneurs, our business, our small business to have the right to choose, to ask a private executive to enforce the relevant court decision within the framework of the law. We want to build a legal state with you, we want to have the same standards with you as in the European Union. We need to move from conversation to business. I am grateful to those factions of the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u164	I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to finish another minute. And once again, I ask you to call the heads of the factions of the deputies into the hall. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u165	I'm grateful to those factions that were in the coalition now in opposition, but they've taken an active part in the drafting of these bills, and the Radical Party, Self-Help, Fatherland, the People's Front, the Poshenko Block. This is our joint work, we need to move now from talking about judicial reform to concrete action. And today, by adopting all the laws, we're going to show society that the state will guarantee the execution of the decisions that our new Ukrainian courts will make in the name of the law, the name of justice. All the myths about abuse don't match reality. Private performers -- self-employed people, they can't unite in any collectors' organizations, they're regulated by law, they're governed by the rules that are defined by law, unlike the current state executives, they're motivated. You and I have a good result in the reform of the registration service when we hand over these functions to private notaries, and now this is one of the most successful reforms that has cleared up domestic corruption in the area of business and real estate registration. Let's support these laws and get Ukraine closer to, in fact, European countries in the execution of court decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, these are the laws that are important for obtaining the IMF tranche. And so, Anton Gerashchenko, I am very much asking you to come to the workplace and vote. Anton Gerashchenko, Anton Gerashchenko, I am addressing you and I am hearing from all of Ukraine, I ask you to take the job and vote. I ask all the deputies, when the issue of our economy is at stake, will be everyone's responsibility if we are not able to make a decision. Everyone in position, colleagues? Can everyone vote? Denisova, could you take the vote? I'll be there in a minute. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u167	Thank you, Mr. Head. Which is worth the court's decision if it's not executed. The Minister of Justice simply didn't call the statistics out of time, but I would like to say on his behalf that we in Ukraine tend to have a court decision of about 6 percent. Imagine 94 percent of court decisions are not implemented. Who suffers from this? First of all, citizens. And if we have already made a commitment as part of the proper signing of the association agreement, I want to say that I signed her government still post-Majdanian, which had both "liberators" and other representatives, just forgot about it, now they're saying that we want to leave the yoke. We all want to put the European yoke on the Ukrainian people together, and I'll tell you that's not the worst yoke. And for the reason that someone doesn't want to carry out this reform, I have suspicions, my friends. You want to leave the situation that is now and in an illegal way try to make it impossible to make a decision for a certain, let's say, wrong benefit. That's not going to happen, we live in another reality. Moreover, our delegation is leaving, you know, to negotiate with the IMF. It's one of the IMF's Mayans.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u168	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u169	We're not going to go to the IMF with anything right now, and why in six months we haven't been able to take the necessary reform. And one more thing is very important. This law takes effect according to the Transitional Regulations at the same time as the previous law. That is why we need to vote them together. If we don't vote on any of them, the reform won't work. It's very important to understand. Thank you for your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u170	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, to vote. I put to the vote the draft Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Authorities, 2506a on second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:15:39]] For 214 I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. I ask my fellow MPs to stand by and prepare for the vote. While the MPs enter the hall, please, Oles Long, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u171	Dear Chairman! It's a faction. Long, faction of the will of the people. I wanted to take the floor to say that this law is important, this is where the minister present, really, was working on this law, this is really one of the "majors of the IMF." At the same time, because now it's 12 hours and 16 minutes, and, really, there's not a lot of deputies physically in the room. I would suggest that you postpone the adoption of this law immediately after the break announcement or. Well, either then take a little break for the deputies to come in, or we'll break the law now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u172	Let me do what I did again. Really 12 hours 16 minutes. Let's check the mobilisation capacity of the hall, and I'm betting on a legislative rating vote on whether we're able to make decisions. So by law, 2506 ratings, please take part in the vote. [[12:17:45]] For 219 You tell me, are there any other deputies that are ready? Where are they going to go now? Dear colleagues, we have potential, are there MPs who are ready to enter? [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I put the next bill on the ratings, 2507a. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. The 2507a ratings, please take part in the vote on this bill. Please vote. [[12:18:47]] For 218. There's no mobilisation capacity in the room. And so, according to the Rules, I can't take a longer break, I'll call it a 30-minute break, until 12.50.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine received a call from two MPs: "The will of the people" and from the MP group "The Rebirth Party." At the request of the parliamentary group "The will of the people" and the parliamentary group "Economic development" and in accordance with article 27(3) of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" please announce a recess of 30 minutes during the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moscalenko and Bondar. But the two groups, as a result of the long discussion, agreed to replace the break from the rostrum. And I invite you to the speech by Jaroslav Moskalenko. Please. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u174	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, the noble Ukrainian people! As I went to Parliament today, I asked myself, "What role are we with you, my dear friends, in the life of Ukrainian society? What do people expect from us by choosing us and posting us in Parliament to protect their interests?" And, you know, I asked my driver this question, and it struck me that he answered me: people today are asking the national MPs to do something that doesn't get any worse. People are tired of the constant mistakes of power because they sometimes become fatal to people and to the lives of the whole country. Two years ago, we made a serious mistake by violating article 16 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which says that ensuring that the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the preservation of the gene pool of the Ukrainian people are overcome is a duty of the State. After voting in favour of Bill 76-8, we removed this guarantee from the state to the people who had suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. We said they didn't get hurt. Do you understand? In the 91st year, the state told the human being and recognized her as the victim of a technological catastrophe, and you and I, the deputy of the eighth chamber, told the same man that she was no longer injured. Today, children living in the immediate vicinity of a 30-km zone have lost the only hope of going outside this area every year to breathe clean air, and as a result of statistics, today's disease among these children is 95 percent. Today, those with cancer have lost their legal ability to confirm that their disease is related to the Chernobyl disaster. Honorable fellow workers are not mistaken for those who do nothing in life, but only the strong can recognize and correct their mistakes. We must not lose our only chance with you, and this is our only chance to correct our mistake, we must vote on Bill 2093 by overcoming the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u175	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u176	I'll give you just one example. There's a war on Donbas today. Thousands of wounded, thousands of dead. Peacekeepers suffer, a huge problem with displaced persons. I want to ask you a question: Will the war end, and what? Will we violate the following article of the Constitution, number 17? Let's say we take away social security and say these people didn't get hurt as a result of the fighting in our territory?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u177	30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u178	We vote 2093 three hundred votes, we don't support the President's recommendation. The People's Will MPs will vote in full. As a citizen, I'm asking you to settle down, support our initiative. And we had a joint session with the MP's Rebirth Group, which supported us, too, will vote. And we now demand to vote on one of the first drafts. We're not going to look at anything else until we've seen it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a health block under the Rules. We put in order of the day, actually, those proposals that were listed by the committee that were recommended on the committee. And the first is 2386a and 2386a-1. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. Anyone who supports the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner, please vote, colleagues. Voting for summary procedure, 2386a Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:02:27]] For-125 Colleagues, over the course of several weeks, and other members of the Board of Conciliation, called on members of the Board of Conciliation to set up a health unit for consideration. Now they're standing, let me stress, the ones that the committee offered. We have a chance: either consider all three bills and make a decision on them, or enter into the full procedure and have a chance to consider only one. I'm asking you to reconsider your position, I'm going to re-proposal for a reduced procedure. As long as the MPs get together, I'll give Victor Pinzenic a speech for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u180	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, I understand the importance of considering many drafts, but this bill concerns a very sensitive and important subject. This is about organ transplants, and this bill cannot be considered by a reduced procedure. We need to think carefully, discuss it, and make decisions on it that are very important but sensitive to the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u181	Thank you for your position. I'm going to re-supply a reduced procedure, if she finds support in the room, we're going to vote as the room decides, if she doesn't go, we're going to start looking at the full procedure. Members of the Health Committee, please express their position by voting and speaking to their factions. Once again, I am putting to the vote the motion for a simplified procedure for draft law 2386a. Anyone who supports the consideration of this issue under reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[13:04:51]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Musi Oleg Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u182	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Finally, it is time to consider these socially important bills, which the Health Committee has assumed responsibility for, and which proposes to reform and build a new health system. One such bill that we are going to consider today, and I sincerely believe that we are going to consider three conceptual bills, is Bill 2386a on transplantation of organs and other anatomical materials of man. Over the past five years, almost every year the Supreme Council has been asked about a new version of the Transplant Law. But this bill has never been considered in the Supreme Council Hall. Recognizing the importance of this bill, the 2386a drafters involved the entire professional medical community in its deliberations, the interested authorities of other, executive authorities, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and Ukraine's leading transplantologists in order to determine what to do next with a very important transplant issue. It is no secret that today some 5,000 people in Ukraine die because of the lack of a proper legislative base. In this bill, there is, in principle, one difference between the following bill, which will report to the committee head. It is with you that we have to determine whether we are going in a European way, through Austria, through Spain and through Belarus, where there is a presumption of consent, where potentially every person can be a donor of organs or tissues. And this little card that exists in Germany, it can save.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u183	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u184	It could save 5,000 lives a year. In case you don't support Ukrainian society, I'm sure you should have matured to the presumption of consent, this bill will certainly call on you all to support an alternative bill where there is a presumption of disagreement. But Ukraine's future is clearly in line with the European standard of "presumption of consent to organ and tissue transplants." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u185	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Health Committee has a fully consolidated position of all deputies under both laws. Both the alternative law and the main law of Oleg Stepanovich Musia. The Health Committee strongly supports the development of the transplant industry in Ukraine because today it is extremely embarrassing that our children with acute leukosis are now on their way to Belarus. That is why the Health Committee supports the Law on Transplantation. But we now have two laws: one with the presumption of consent, the other with the presumption of disagreement. And the Health Committee believes that it is necessary to uphold the law that now supports the Council of Churches, virtually all religions, and which makes it impossible for corruption. As the war goes on in Ukraine, as open borders, as we are developing unabated corruption, and as law enforcement agencies do not work, the Health Committee considers it appropriate to support a bill that requires a mandatory prior consent of a person to voluntarily transfer organs for transplantation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. The Lystic Lion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u188	I ask you to pass the word to Sissyenko Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u189	Please, Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill, but I think that the social-psychological aspect that exists in the state is important in solving the transplant issue. So the self-help faction will support an alternative bill, which is different from the primary presumption of disagreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u191	Thank you. Artemenko Andrey, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u192	I ask you to pass the word Alexia Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u193	I ask you to support the bill next, which is an alternative, which is 2386a-1. So organ transplantation is a complex system that is based on the need to operate interconnected industries in medicine. The core is the transplant coordinator service that we need to establish in law. Unfortunately, we have had a situation since 1999, when the Transplant Act was first adopted, Ukraine from the flagmen of transplantation became a country with fewer than 100 or 120 transplants per year, if necessary 5,000. We're losing our people, we're losing our personnel, and we're moving away from being able to help these people. Yes, indeed, Oleg Stepanović rightly says that there is a question of debate, which is consent or disagreement, but this is absolutely not a fundamental issue for us at this time. The Act provides for the creation of regulations and the establishment of a central authority system that will regulate all transplantation. We will be able to allocate money specifically to this sector and form the whole system. We don't have a list of expectations right now, we don't have systems where we can take a donor, we don't have defined organizations that can make a transplant. It's totally wrong. We have studied international, including experience, we have done a great deal of work in the public and in the scientific community and in the church. And I ask you, it will be the right decision if we support a direct alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u194	Thank you. Please, Oksana Sold. I ask you to join our work with a wise and weighty word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u195	We thank the drafters for introducing this bill, because in fact today many people in Ukraine are dying because there is no law that allows for the use of good will or not good will, of the possibilities that today could have been if the law were working. At the same time, we know that today society is not ready to force the use of transplantation in such a large scale, and we believe that the first step is to support an alternative bill today is to start this work and this activity in Ukraine, and we will continue to give God the opportunity and we will develop this direction in the future. We propose to support the Tyre one alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, from the Hungarian People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, the glory of Jesus the Cross! Of course, the issues that we are currently considering are very important because science is moving forward, medicine is moving forward, and technology is moving forward from healing, treatment, even from diseases that were previously thought to be deadly. But on the other hand, we have these laws that are universal, the laws that the Most High has created, and we can't get past these laws. This means that we have to find a balance and this balance can only lie in the free, conscious consent of a person to have something happen in transplantation mode, that's right and that's normal. The presumption regime agrees at this stage, but I'm sure at any other stage, we won't accept it. So we have to find this balance today, during the professional discussion, but still support the position that the representatives of all the churches of Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches, have sounded, only consciously.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u198	Thank you. From Fatherland, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u199	Thank you. I support the great thanks that Oksana sold to the authors of these bills. It's a shame that in the last 10 years our parents and all those in need of a transplant should go to neighboring Belarus, where we've had the persecution of doctors who were involved in unique transplant operations. But in discussing these bills, the "Fatherland" faction agreed to support Mrs. Bogholtz's alternative bill, personally as part of the presumption of non-agreement for posthumous donation. So it gives consent or marriage to the nearest, or closest, relatives. Then this law will start in both Christian and human work in Ukraine. We will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u200	Thank you. And he's asking a representative from the Pavlovenko Ministry for one minute. Please, one minute. And I ask the MPs to come into the hall, and we are now moving on to the decision-making process. Please come into the hall. And one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u201	Yeah, first of all, I want to say that these laws are almost the same. The Ministry of Health took part in the drafting of the first bill, from which it all began. Indeed, we expressed the desire of the medical community to incorporate the principle of consent. Then, during the year, various events, including populist events, unfolded. We realized that it was quite difficult to maintain the principle of harmony in the country at the moment. I see that, according to the floor, there is also no way to now advance the exact request of the medics and to presuppose consent. So I'm asking you to support an alternative bill to start a transplant movement in the country. But I want to take it that nothing revolutionary then is done by the Council. The main measures will be taken by the Cabinet and the Ministry of Health's orders to create a coordination service and transplant coordinators. So please vote for an alternative bill, but just keep in mind that you are simply compiling some terminology and making some clarifications. Revolutionary events are not currently taking place in the Council; they will already take place in the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u202	Thank you. The bill was concluded. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking the people's deputies to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs. I'm talking to my colleagues, getting ready to vote. So we have the committee's decision, which was made by the committee head, to take 2386a-1 as a basis. And I'm making a proposal to the committee. One. I'm putting the committee's first proposal, be careful, the committee's proposal is to base 2386a-1. Am I right? And I'm actually putting this committee proposal to a vote. Is everyone paying attention? Yes. Is everyone there? Are they all oriented? I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on organ transplantation and other anatomical human materials (2386a-1). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[13:19:46]] For 214 Are we trying to get back? Then please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll put it on return one day. I'll put it back once. He is indeed important and you have a chance to invite your colleagues to the faction to vote. Discussion is over, discussion is over. Can I bet on my return? Please, Olga the Mantis, 1 minute until the deputies enter the hall. One minute, Olga the Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support Bill 2386a-1, which is actually supported by both the Ministry of Health and all members of the committee. This law allows for the development of the field of transplantology without the removal of organs from the human body without its consent. This law will allow 326 million dollars that are now being paid by the State abroad, where our children are being treated, to give to their home institutions. Imagine today, the budget of the Shalimov Institute, which carried out the first lung transplant, is only 20 million dollars, and we're spending almost 400 million dollars on the development of this sector. I suggest you support the development of native transplantology and I ask you to support and positively vote in favour of Law 2386a-1. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u204	Thank you. Ready to vote in the room? My proposal is to go back to draft Law 2386a-1. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the hearing, please vote. Please vote. [[13:22:09]] For 244 244 for. Decision taken. I'm putting Bill 2386a-1 on the basis of the committee's proposal. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:22:40]] For 243 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the bill. Let's go to Bill 2,309. This is a draft of the Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on improving health legislation. There is also a proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:23:25]] For 181 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Musi Oleg Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there has been a long discussion between the Ministry of Health and the Health Committee on reform as such. In fact, the only bill passed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the previous government was 2309a, which predicted, sadly, the total destruction of the entire health system. I was forced to introduce an alternative bill of 2309a-1, which was certainly imperfect, that was to save the situation so that we would not find ourselves among the corrupt health system of Ukraine. Instead, after that committee, I agreed with the committee's proposal and supported the committee in its entirety, all the national MPs who are part of all the political forces, factions, groups, to put in place fuses for the possibility of spoiling our health system and to propose an amended bill. The bill that has been drafted provides full autonomy and what our health care system expects. In fact, this is the first step toward real reform and building a new health system. So, as the author of the alternative bill, I ask you to support me as a fully developed, not as a supporter of my alternative bill, which is clearly imperfect. Also give the floor, if possible, to our representative's report on the alternative bill from the Self-Help party, which has been actively involved, Mrs. Irina Sisoyenko. He may also express a point of view and head of the committee, which is the engine for reform and the locomotive for building a new health care system in the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u206	Thank you very much. The report invites the head of the committee, Boghoel Olga Vadimovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all the deputies here for your support of the transplant law. And especially the Fatherland, whose representatives are not on the Health Committee, and also the Opposition Block, and all those who voted. As for the autonomy laws, I want to say that today, the Health Committee, I think, like the entire Parliament, agrees with what Mrs. Pavlenko said, being here, that the revolution is not happening in Parliament, we don't need a revolution in Parliament, we need a consolidated work. If the revolution takes place in the Ministry of Health, and it finally starts to work effectively and transparently, it will be very good. The Autonomization Act, developed and supported by all members of all the political powers that are part of the Health Committee, by the People's Front, by the Peter Prashenko Block, by Self-Help, by the Opposition Block, by Will.", supported by this bill, which itself creates, lays the foundation for health reform and gives medical institutions the right to separate property. Including the funds attached to it on the right of operation. Having a medical facility on its own, having bills in government banks, having stamps. Self-confirming the application, choosing on the competitive basis of the head of the facility. Do not return the funds to the budget not used by the institution. In addition, the bill establishes a simplified procedure for reorganizing health facilities without obtaining new licences, permits, and reorganizing employment contracts with managers and employees. This is the first law that will allow us to move from bed-day financing to service financing, it is crucial. And it doesn't have the risks that Kabmin put in the previous law, where there was a risk of privatization, bankruptcy of all medical facilities, and privatization of the property of these hospitals. So the property stays on balance in the community, and the medical facilities can be used, not for their own judgment, but for their own judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u208	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u209	30 seconds, please. Therefore, I would like to support the committee's proposal and the results of the first reading to adopt the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving health institutions' legislation (number 2309a with the letter "d"), which is being further developed by all members of the Health Committee. This is the beginning of a health sector reform. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u210	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Aunt Yuzkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u211	Please pass the word Kirichenko to Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u212	The radical faction requests support for the 23-a-d version. The committee head's comments were absolutely correct, and I would like to stress: Ukraine has been living in the Semashko combustible system since the 20th century. And this bill allows us to stimulate, not by changing the form of property, but to stimulate the transition of treatment institutions to a form where they can accumulate money. That is, he says that, apart from public and municipal enterprises, the money made last year and received from hospitals will remain for the following year. That is, from our point of view, it will enable medical institutions to change their form of management in order to make them finally count and earn money. It seems to us that this will be one of the most important factors that will push our medical institution to develop and improve the quality of service for our patients.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u213	Irina Volodymyr's Sisoyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u214	Dear colleagues! Today is an extremely important day for the health system. Because Parliament has finally begun to consider those bills from which real reform will begin. The bill that we are currently considering on the autonomy of medical institutions is the first step that has long been taken by all the post-Radians countries of the world, and only Ukraine is taking this step now, but the main thing is what's going on. With regard to the medical facilities in which our medical hospitals exist today and the use of state budget funds, this is ineffective. And it's the bill that we're about to vote for that will change the funding system and make it more efficient to use the budget for the hospital. This bill will allow the main doctors to be independent in making decisions on the management, economic and financial activities of medical institutions. It is also important that, at the end of the year, those costs that have not been spent by medical institutions can be saved for the next year, the current year, and thus the financing of a particular medical facility will be increased. It is also important that it is the chief physician who will be able to spend primarily on the needs of the hospital that exist. And that's what these bills are all about. That's what's finally going to be the funding base for the patient, not the medical facility and the preservation of the hospital infrastructure, as it is now. So let's vote for these bills. But let's also now define that these bills will need to be clarified between the first and the second readings and set clear deadlines for the transition of medical institutions to a different form of organization and law, to casinos and non-commercial enterprises of municipal property. Because if these lines are not clearly set, we understand that some medical institutions will become.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u215	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u216	Some medical institutions will become non-profit enterprises, while others will preserve their organizational and legal form, which is ineffective today. So I think in the committee between the first and the second readings we're going to be able to work out this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u217	Thank you very much. Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u218	Please pass the word to Igor Mikhailovich Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u219	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I am deeply convinced that the need to change something in the health system today is capable of uniting political elites in Ukraine. Bill 2309a-d, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving health legislation, is to some extent very significant. This is the first bill to bring together representatives of all the political forces working on the committee today. I think this is the first step we have taken to make this a key issue in both the work and the parliament, and the executive branch of power. But I have to say that the point of voting on the bill that we're talking about is that they're going to give our chief doctors the will to manage the costs, to make decisions, they're not going to give anything. Let's face it. As long as the national health system is not developed, the national health system, where the Cabinet of Ministers, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, is developed, is approved and agreed, we cannot solve the health problem. The Opposition Block faction will no doubt support the bill today as the first step towards a link around solving health problems. But I emphasize that if the new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers does not establish a concept that will provide for the progressive action of the Supreme Council, the executive branch of government, we will not be able to achieve reform of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u220	Thank you. The closing address of Yuri Solovay. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the decision-making room. Please, Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u221	Please pass the word to Constantine Jarinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, I am one of the authors of the committee bill, but at the same time, I recognize that there is one major flaw in the bill that is deceiving the value of the bill. The point is that the bill presented by the committee does not have a very important point: it is a clear deadline for the completion of the restructuring of state and municipal health institutions in the casino and municipal non-commercial enterprises, and the appropriate mechanisms for encouraging the adoption of the necessary decisions. So in order to address this problem, under the transcript, I propose a decree on the adoption of Bill 2309a-d in the first reading to complete the task. This assignment should look like this. "To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care to prepare a draft for the second reading, taking into account the need to define specific deadlines for the completion of the restructuring of public and municipal health institutions in establishments with the status of penal and municipal non-commercial enterprises and to establish operational mechanisms to stimulate the relevant central executive authorities and local self-government bodies to take the necessary decisions for this purpose." Without this very important amendment, the reform will not move. And I, as one of the sponsors of the committee bill, insist that the Bill of 2309a-d be put to the vote with this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. And I remind you that the committee's decision is 2309 a to take as a basis. Yeah? I've heard all the factions support the bill. Yeah, so I'm saying, 2309a-d in committee editing, I said. Colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislation on improving legislation on health institutions 2309a-d, to be adopted as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:38:58]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank the authors, thank you to the committee. If you want to adopt more laws, I'm asking for a break now. Okay? We discussed yesterday's draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on Health Reform in Ukraine. We discussed it, we were all in favour, we just didn't have any votes. I'm asking everyone to take a seat and support the draft decision. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on Health Reform in Ukraine 4406. Anyone who supports this ruling, the committee's proposal, please vote 4406, please vote. [[13:40:11]] For 273 Decision taken, welcome to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a bill has been tabled in Parliament by the national deputies of Ukraine to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation) (number 4469). This bill is in line with article 93, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is defined by the President of Ukraine as urgent. In view of this and the corresponding interpretation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, I propose the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the session and the decision to do so at this evening's session. When it comes in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I emphasize that when it comes in as an immediate bill from the President of Ukraine, we are his. As Head of the Supreme Council, I am obliged to make it an urgent, day-to-day arrangement. Yeah? Honorable fellow workers! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, are we ready to vote? Number 4469, inclusion in the agenda for the decision after the session. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I'm proposing the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the decision-making on it at this evening's session of draft law 44. [[B in m in s a l in]] 4469. Who supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues! Vote! [[13:42:23]] For 177 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I give you my word, a minute for Ollie the Mantis. Okay. Dear colleagues, we've got a day's work to do. Attention, respectable company! Then we have a day-to-day bill. There is a chapter: To make a decision on the issues under discussion. I beg your attention, these are the questions that have already been discussed, and we only have to make decisions on them. First, 2950 is the draft Act amending the "On Waste" Act. He was discussed, he was. I'm sorry, I got a request from two factions. And I would like to inform you that the honourable two factions that a break, at the request of two factions, can only be given once during a plenary session. I respect your request, but according to the Rules, I can't put it up and I can't give my word because there's other issues going on. Thank you. You had a break half an hour ago, and you had a performance half an hour ago, I remind you. Colleagues, I ask that Ribak Ivan Petrovich remind you of Bill 2950, which has been discussed, you may from your place, one minute, and please prepare for the vote. To remind you, this is a decision from the questions under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to briefly remind you of the changes that are being made to the Ukrainian Waste Act, namely, the part of regulating the relationship of handling hazardous wastes with regard to installation, so that licences for dealing with hazardous waste are issued only if there is a material and technical base. The point is that, today, essentially, the Ministry of Ecology has given out a lot of licenses, and the material and technical basis and the fulfilment of conditions, the licensing conditions are not being carried out today by operators who have appropriate licences. Dear colleagues, we need to stop the ecocidal of the Ukrainian people, we need to think about preventing dangerous wastes from rolling through our forests, poisoning our rivers and lakes. Dear colleagues, you and I have literally recently discussed this very perfectly in terms of the bill, but unfortunately we haven't had it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u225	Please finish the date, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we lost 15 votes in the hall because of the absence of national deputies. Dear colleagues, let us support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u227	Ivan Petrovich, I fully support your position if there is a union in the hall. But I have just been informed that there is a denial of the Committee on European Integration. In order not to fail the bill, with your permission, I'll give you my word, one minute, to Jonah, and she'll tell you her position. Please, Jonah, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, if we may, we have considered the bill in the Committee on Euro-Integration. There are some warnings and contradictions about European Union directives. So I ask that you only accept this as a basis and that this bill be drafted in accordance with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u229	Thank you. So it's based on overall support. I ask you to stop this discussion if you really support this bill. All the factions and all the voices in the hall are supported on the basis. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Waste Act, 2950, as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 2950 as a basis, please vote. [[13:46:47]] For 178. 178 for. The decision is not made. I have an offer, colleagues, and an invitation to you. I ask you to vote back to the committee for further work. Can I count on your support, colleagues? Back to the committee for work, yeah. Can I count on your support? May I? Please, I would like to make an offer: to return the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Waste Act (2950) to the committee for further work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:47:42]] For-200 I'm making a third offer. Returning the subject to the legislative initiative for further development And, dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate and prepare for the vote. 2950, the return of the subject of the legislative initiative for further development so that we do not lose the bill, colleagues. Please be careful and vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:48:30.]] For 218. The decision is not made. The bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, we discussed another draft for the Chernobyl bill yesterday, this is Bill 2381. We talked about the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and we spent a lot of time yesterday to discuss this bill. Dear colleagues, we had a full connection in the adoption of this bill, just no votes in the hall. 3281, tell me so we don't lose him, can I count on the support of the hall? I can count on it. I very much ask then to take up jobs, dear colleagues. I ask you very much to prepare for the vote, this is a draft bill in support of the Chernobyls. And I ask a minute for Jaroslav Moskalenko on this bill. One minute, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, this is a very important law, but I want to say that the entire Ukrainian people know. Well, we agreed, Bill 2093 is extremely important, which is expected by all society, especially the Chernobyls. We made a deal with you, I took the floor, and we agreed that we were considering Bill 2093, and only then do we put the DA's bill in order. Well, how are we going to keep doing this if we're doing our deals in front of each other. That's why I'm asking, 2093.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to carefully take up your jobs, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, 3281. I'm asking you to be careful. We have almost the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The Chernobyls are waiting for a sign from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we must give that sign. We discussed that question yesterday. Please be considerate and responsible. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (to eliminate discrimination against citizens who participated in the elimination of other nuclear accidents). 3281, based on. Whoever supports this bill, please vote 3281 on the basis. Please vote. [[13:51:32]] For 244 Decision taken. Is there agreement in general, association? Is it? I'm offering 238. Proposal 3281. If there's support, in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:52:13]] For 233 The law is passed. Society to get us to Chernobyl right away. We still have a 4437 agenda, a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the resolution of specific issues of the territory's legal regime, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. It's just getting into the agenda, but it's a good signal, society, it's a good signal. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the 4437 session. Please vote: inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[13:53:04]] For 205 The decision is not taken. On a day-to-day basis. I want to report that I am continuing for 15 minutes of the session. I'm going to take the next one. We're going to have a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act (3617). As I was told, he's being supported and he's in no conflict in the room, and there's general support for him. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it by a reduced procedure. 3617 – short procedure. Please vote 3617. [[13:54:25]] For-164 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Babak Alon Valeriyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u232	Dear National Deputies, the Natural Gas Market Act, we have decided that much of the parameters that affect the price of gas for the final consumer are determined at the level of the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and the regulatory acts of the National Commission for the Regulation of Energy and Municipal Services. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has adopted a Regulation on the Establishment of a Gas Insurance Reserve, which is to form a gas supplier of 50 percent of the scheduled monthly supply volume for the following month. Dear colleagues! This means that the supplier should buy 50 percent of the gas he plans to sell in the next month and keep it in the insurance supply. Everyone in this room understands what that means. This should take credit and ensure that such an insurance reserve is formed. Questions for all of you. What does a credit for gas prices mean? These are high rates, this is an increase in the value of the final consumer. Dear colleagues! Natural gas market participants have already calculated how the price of gas will increase if there is such a reserve rule that, coupled with the financial security obligation of 20 percent of the gas supplied for gas service, the price of gas increases by 20 to 30 dollars per thousand cubic metres of gas. Dear colleagues! The bill proposes that such an insurance be secured at 10 percent of the planned monthly amount. Why 10 percent and not any other price? There are different forms of reserve formation in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u233	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u234	We're proposing this 10 percent just because it's a status quo, it's how the gas market has worked so far. It was 30 percent of the neighborhood’s size that an insurance reserve was formed. We say that's 10 percent per month. Until then, if we change the gas market institutions, enter the markets and so on, let's secure this 10 percent without changing what's been happening so far in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u235	Thank you, dear colleagues. Please write two in favour, two in front of you to discuss this bill, please, from factions. The record is being recorded. I'm sorry, word for the committee, stand back. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, from the committee report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u236	Dear presiding officers, distinguished deputies! At its meeting on December 23, 2015, the Fuel and Energy Committee considered the bill. The members of the committee unanimously expressed the view that the bill would increase competition in the gas supply market and contribute to lower prices in the competitive gas market. The Chief Research Office made some comments and opinions on the bill, including providing information from the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to point out that at one of the last meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers, at the time of the management of Mr. Yatsenuk, the idea of introducing a 10% insurance reserve was actually supported in the same scope as proposed in the bill. Clearly, the bill and the implementation of the bill aligns the conditions of work in the gas market and does not give such great priorities and preferences to owners of gas crops. There is also a conclusion, a positive conclusion from the Committee on Prevention and Anticorruption. There are positive conclusions and references to the Committee and the Supreme Council to support this bill from the American Trade and Industry Company and other companies. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading, the adoption of Bill 3617 on the basis of a half-time reduction in the submission of comments and suggestions in preparation for the second reading. As co-author of the bill, I also urge everyone to vote in the first reading and I appeal to the chairman to put it in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u237	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u238	And I would like to suggest that we work on the second reading on a reduced procedure, because the bill consists of only one item and we can quickly work out and run this positive norm on the gas market. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u239	Thank you. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Condrat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u240	I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u241	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. My colleagues, I'm asking you to support this bill, it's very relevant in view of the fact that we, as the Committee on Fuel and Energy, have been approached by both small and medium-sized businesses in which Naftogaz tried to put extra pressure on us to prevent them from entering the market. Well, there's always been 10 percent a month that's got to be this insurance. Even in Ukraine’s history, however, there was no such thing as an insurance supply. In addition, an additional 20 percent financial security has now been introduced into the gas market. So it's just that people, in small and medium-sized businesses, take these costs, and they freeze on accounts in fact, which is what a big company like Naftogaz can use to meet their own needs, and this is actually a monopolization of the market. So by supporting Mrs. Babak's bill, we ask you to vote for this so that we can actually develop the gas market, there's competition. When there is competition, the price goes down and the quality of service goes up. Because we actually adopted a bill on the natural gas market. There's no secondary documents under it, the government hasn't developed yet, and there's an effort yet, as long as this interseasonal and not everything is fully working, to take a monopoly position and actually level the market relations. A request for support. The Fatherland faction will always support small and medium-sized business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u242	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to stay in the hall, a very important bill. Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u243	Thank you. Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. Please pass the word to Katzer-Buchkowska Natalija.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u244	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The People's Front faction will support Bill 3617 on natural gas market insurance. I also support colleagues from the committee who spoke up and argued that the bill was necessary for the development of the natural gas market. Because this bill sets the maximum possible level of gas insurance, which, in principle, makes it impossible for the central executive authorities to make unforeseeable decisions on the necessary reserve. So in fact, gas traders can know in advance what level of gas insurance they should predict for the next month. This will enable competition in the market to be developed and the prices of natural gas to be reduced accordingly. So I'm asking you very much to support this bill, and it's essentially technical, and so this rule worked on the market before the adoption of the Natural Gas Market Act, where it wasn't included. And it is important for the development of the natural gas market and for the development of competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u245	Thank you. Yuszkov's Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u246	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u247	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u248	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, distinguished fellow national MPs, I would like to draw your attention to yesterday's statement by Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine in an interview with one of the TV channels. Mr. Groissman said he had no choice but to raise gas tariffs for residential services. And since May 1, 2016, the government you voted for, I've been calling on those who voted 70 percent again to raise the cost of housing services for Ukrainian citizens. I understand that maybe government officials, they can raise 170 percent. But millions of people can't stand this price anymore, which is what it is today. The cost of producing Ukrainian gas is 1.5 thousand dollars per thousand cubes. Consumers receive a gas of 7,000,200 dollars per thousand cubes. The 70 percent increase in gas costs is almost 12,000 dollars per thousand cubes. Show me people in this country except oligarchs and cashiers who can pay 12,000 dollars for a thousand cubic metres of gas. We're told about subsidies, so these subsidies are given, they've turned the whole country into beggars who have to follow subsidies. So I'm asking the government of Groysman, the parliamentary majority in the region, to stop robbing Ukrainian citizens, there's no way that people have 12,000 dollars to pay for gas, there's no need to pay taxes to oligarchs, including the President, not to hide their companies in offshores, and then there's no need to rob millions of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u249	Last closing statement from Peter Prashenko's Block, Bilkova. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. In two minutes, the vote will take place. He'll call the deputies into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, like our respectable partners, we are also very concerned that the price of gas is the lowest for Ukrainian citizens. It's just that we don't agree that we can manipulate numbers. And that's why we're very much in favour of Mrs. Alona Babak's Bill 3617. Because it is the creation of market preconditions for setting gas prices that is the only way to provide cheap gas to Ukrainians that is transparent competition when everyone is able to participate freely in the gas market. Today, I can inform you that in the last year, there was no other question on which we were asked more than this ill-advised insurance supply. We called on the government a number of times, asking them to resolve the matter by their own decisions. But they didn't. So the MPs had to submit this bill -- and actually replace the government. I very much ask everyone today to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, there is support for all factions. It's important for everyone to be in their jobs. I very much ask the National Deputies to take up jobs and enter a hall that is not in the hall. I, my esteemed colleagues, have put to the vote this, this really important law, and only as a basis. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act (3617) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[14:08:33]] For 227 227 for. Decision taken. Is there total support? Anyone who supports proposal 3617 as a whole, please vote. The supporter in general, please vote. Please vote. [[14:09:04]] For 215 None. I suggest you short-circuit the procedure before the second reading. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure for second reading, please vote. Yeah, there's no point, really, there's no point. Dear colleagues, we had a productive, important day: we supported health care as much as we could. I thank both you and the head of the committee for their productive work. According to the Rules, I announce a break in the work of the Supreme Council until 16. 00. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
