ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! Please enter the hall, take your seats, prepare for registration. Please blockers take your seats at the rostrum. Pull up, pull up. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please report that the registration will take place in one minute. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? I'd like you to sign up. Please register with the People's Deputies. [[10:04:21]] 318 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have a tradition of welcoming the national deputies on their birthdays in the morning. Today we have a special day, today Hope of Savichenko 35 years old. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I have the honour, like many here, to know Nadia Savchenko, who has passed the road in Maidan from the first to the last days, and the battle path in the Idar battalion. Our heroic pilot was kidnapped by Russian invaders and became a symbol of Ukraine’s integrity. With her head held high, she shows what dignity is and what love for the Father is. The hope of Savchenko is highly honored by the Ukrainian officer. I'm sure all of us in the band have to do everything we can to get Hope Savichenko here as soon as possible with us in this room. We wish her great spirit, integrity, dignity, and the same love for her Father. Nadia, Ukraine with you! Happy birthday! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Also, I would like to welcome to the birthday of our colleague Mikhail Mikhailovich. Let's welcome Mr. Michael. [[Applause]] And I would also like to report that Wednesday's Rules give us 30 minutes to speak to the national MPs with proposals, statements and messages. But it came to me, again, in a statement. Oleg Valeriyovich, your application? A statement. An application for a break from two factions -- the Radical Party and the Fatherland -- but today they're willing to just replace it with a statement. And self-help, yes. And that's why, according to the Rules, I give the floor to Oleg Lašk, and then there will be a record for the national MPs' speeches in the "Virgin". Please turn on the light microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. The Radical Party faction was forced to block the parliamentary rostrum on the second day in a row with several demands. The first is the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry into corruption by the Supreme Council, by officials. The international community reports that the highest Ukrainian high-ups: The President of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank, the Minister of Finance, the First Deputy Secretary of the RNBO Gladkovsky, a number of other high-level owners, hide their assets in offshores, don't pay taxes, rob the Ukrainian people, rob the Ukrainian state. I'm surprised to hear from some of the representatives of the Peter Prashenko faction when they say it's normal, that for 20 years all the offshore business is doing that. That's why we live like beggars, that for 20 years everyone in power is robbing the country. To the people of the country, government officials are offering to give up gas. Normal Ukrainians do not see meat for six months, do not eat meat, because they do not have meat, butter, or other foods. Those who hide their belongings in offshors, such spoons, black and red, and in the morning, at lunch and in the evening, do not see the area of meat, children have nothing to feed. And then you tell us that you're fighting corruption. That's why we're calling for an investigative commission to be set up in Parliament. A hundred billion dollars, according to experts, has been removed from Ukraine in years of independence. Of the $100 billion was to be paid, as a minimum, $15 billion tax. Here are the answers to where to take money on pensions, on wages, on gas, on affordable medicines, on affordable medical services. Steal less, return everything you've taken to the offshore, return to Ukraine and pay taxes, and then we'll live better than everyone else in the world, because there's no more working people than the Ukrainian people, but there's no more contempt for the power of the people when they come after Maidan and do worse than they did at Yanukovich. So we're demanding to investigate corruption, we're asking the government to lower the prices of gas for citizens, we're asking the government to return the $1,000 debt to 200 cubes per cube of gas, we're not able to pay 7 dollars per person. Stop robbing! Stop fooling the citizens! So we stand, we block the rostrum before we meet our requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u3	So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to record the speeches of the national MPs for proposals, statements and messages. Please sign up for the performance. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, please. He's handing it over to Illenck, isn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u5	Please, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u6	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to say that the position that is currently being marked by deputies blocking the rostrum is being completely divided and supported by us. We really need to investigate offshore schemes, we need to create a temporary commission of inquiry, we need to stop this looting of Ukrainians, we need to stop the completely anti-human things that the authorities are running today. But I would like to say one more important thing. There was a situation in Parliament yesterday where it was absolutely impossible to make any important decisions in the Supreme Council Hall. We've warned about this, we've talked about the coalition of three -- the Peter Prashenko Coalition, the People's Front Coalition, and the Coalition of Fragments of the Party of Regions -- it's not a coalition that can not only fulfill some commitment and do something for the Ukrainians, and it's a coalition that won't be able to make any decisions in the Supreme Council in a banal way. And we saw it yesterday. Because when we're told that we're going to have an independent Attorney General and we're going to have another promise now, the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which will make this body a European democratic body that will fight corruption that will fight crime, I don't know what it'll be like if all these changes are accepted by the votes of the Party of the Regions. So these people, the former regionals, they're interested in us having a really independent prosecutor's office? Are these people really interested in having real reforms? Are they interested in having an independent Attorney General? But the independent Attorney General, first of all, he's going to do it, but we understand that this is not going to happen if there's a political contractor. This will not be the case if the voices of these people appoint a government, it is by the voices of these people that they adopt the amendments to the Procuratorial Law, and it is with the voices of these people that it is likely that an attempt will be made to appoint a new Attorney General. It's a campaign. Moreover, this is exactly the same rematch of anti-Ukrainian forces, a rematch of regionals that are now being intimidated and said that the parliamentary elections are supposed to lead to this. That is what is happening in today’s parliament. And it already looks like an absolute normality, and no one's surprised about it anymore, and this process needs to be stopped. This coalition is ineffective, it's ineffective, it's ineffective. It does not exist and represents an alliance with the former regions. And this is the path that will not lead Ukraine to development, but lead Ukraine to a breakthrough. This must be stopped and the things required today must be done. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u7	Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u8	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! Good day, national MPs! I would like to say the following when I hear a speech from the chairman of the Radical Party in Parliament. Looking at a recent YouTube video where he said in 2013 that without people like Ahmetov, Ukraine's future is impossible, if only large oligarchs like Ahmedov, it is the pride of Ukraine that will bring Ukraine out of the crisis. I would like to advise him if you know that one of the Ukrainians is not eating meat today, so please stop flying charter flights, sell one of your cars that are following you, direct this money to the people, and you will have genuine confidence that even some people will eat meat, and you can share yours — by eating every day. Be just, and people will treat you differently. Blaming in disgrace. Disgracing everyone else, we need to look in the mirror. Look in the mirror, sell what you have too, probably not earned by honest work. So I wish you success, be just, God will surely notice you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Markevich Jaroslav, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u10	Vojtsick, please, Vojtsick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u12	Good morning, respectable company! Good morning, dear Ukrainians! Victoria Vojticka from Self-Help Union. I want to talk to you using simple numbers and facts about what's really going on in our country. Just think about 18 billion dollars. 18 billion dollars is the amount that was made entirely artificially out of the company Skrnafta in 2015 after you and I, the honourable parliamentarians, passed a bill that would allow Naftogaz to regain full control of the company and ensure and pay dividends and pay taxes on time. Do you know what happened? And it's been very interesting, 18 billion dollars, if we divide them with you by 12 million of our pensioners, that's the thousand 500 dollars that we could send each pensioner to support today's difficult situation. In May, with colleagues from Peter Prashenko's Block, Fatherland, from other factions, we sent instructions to the then Prime Minister of Ukraine in order to regain control of the company. What did Mr. Yatsenuk do? He handed our letter to Mr. Koboljev, who, in principle, had full authority to restore control of the company, to ensure payment of the corresponding money to the budget. But how did this not happen what we saw with you in this case? And what happened is, once again, 18 billion dollars were removed from the company, 10 billion dollars -- the company was in debt to the state budget. And today's government has a chance to correct this injustice, especially against the background of the so - called market price for gas. Now, about the market price for gas. For you to understand, the market is when you understand who's buying, how much they're buying, what's the price, where there's an open site, where people can see how prices are shaped, what conditions. You and I don't have it. You and I actually have a situation where we're taking information from the stock market in Europe, where it's kind of a market price. Then we add extra expenses, taxes -- and we demand that people pay this price. So we think this approach should be reviewed. This approach should be listed and, indeed, fair tariffs are set, taking into account the cost of the domestic gas that is now more than 40 percent of the total consumption in Ukraine. And finally. In view of what happened yesterday, Ukraine deserves it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u13	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u14	Ukraine deserves an honest attorney - general who would really be supported by society. We will not allow ourselves to repeat yesterday’s disgraceful situation when we are knee - deep.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Michael Papiev, the Opposition Block. Please turn on Papiev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u16	Thank you. Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Block." Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Villukul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u17	The distinguished people of Ukraine, yesterday, were not in the form of a statement from the rostrum, so I am late one day from the bottom of my heart congratulating all the people of Ukraine on the greatest, most holy holiday in our history: the Day of Victory in the Great Homeland War. Why do I speak the Great Fatherland because it was truly a national, indeed a people's. And there's no family in Ukraine that doesn't have a hero. We are descendants of the winners. And if our ancestors hadn't been able to unite in their own time and defeat the most terrifying Third Reich car, we wouldn't have been. And today we will be able to unite in order to restore peace in our country in order to make it a normal life. We celebrate Victory Day as a holiday, not as a day of mourning, because this war was not a conflict of values, it was not a conflict of political or social systems. The fascists had the doctrine of destruction of both Jews and Gypsies and of the Slav nation, and of us Ukrainians, as part of the Slavs, total destruction. And this war was the right to exist or to die. Anyone who thinks otherwise, let him study history. We won the war and grieved on that day when our ancestors won the enemy in his fascist logos, at least oddly. This is the Day of Victory, and this is the Day on which we shall rejoice. And the fact that on 9 May, millions of Ukrainians throughout the country took to the streets to honor our heroes and our true history tells us one thing: that the healing of Ukraine has begun; that people themselves have failed to fill the meaning of this great holiday with false meanings and false symbols. And that gives us hope for the future today. Unfortunately, there have been huge provocations throughout the country. They attacked veterans both in Kiev and in Dnepropetrovsk, and in Slavyansk, and in Harikov, and in many other cities. And that should be the end of it. Last year, when these anti-human decommunization laws were enacted, which prohibited important symbols of the Great Homeland War, we upheld the right of veterans to bear war prizes. And today we are introducing to Parliament a bill that authorizes, removes the ban on the use of the battle mark of victory. Because these are the flags of 10 million Ukrainians who were stranded in the concentration camps that died in the occupation died on the front. And these are their signs, and this is their holiday. The Institute of National Memory has become an anti-Ukrainian organization. In Dnepropetrovsk, they even banned the name of Heroev Stallingrad Street, which is in Paris. Thank you, soldiers of the Great Motherland!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u18	On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we all want to thank once again the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine, the strong structures for not letting the rematchers split society on this day and set up provocations. And we will not let anyone be provoked on the day of the memory of the 11 million killed in World War II, tortured by the Nazis and by the Soviet regime. Mr. Tooth from the Self-Help faction is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u20	Good afternoon, fellow believers! The government declared three goals by raising the price of gas: first, the targeting of subsidies, second, the fight against corruption, and third, energy efficiency. But let's see what the consequences of this price increase are now. 50 percent of the population in Ukraine are below the poverty line as recipients of subsidies. This means that this 50 percent is out of the energy efficiency program because they can't invest in this efficiency. Plus the people left over, 50, can't invest anymore because these 50 are blocking their decisions after, for example, investing in multiple apartment buildings. Corruption. Naftogaz instead of receiving and paying, receiving direct subsidies and paying taxes, VAT and rent into the budget will now account for these costs. What we have to demand as a parliament. To analyze these 40 billion dollars that will be included in Naftogaza on a mutual basis, on VAT and rent, and to analyze how Naftogazu's debts are accounted for, in the past years, in the heat industry before Naftogaz. We have to demand from the government today an urgent settlement lending program, by 100% now this summer to regulate heat consumption that is not available, and people can't respond to price increases. And the third. We have to demand from the government a program as people on subsidies will invest in energy conservation. Because we're actually ruining the economy today, leaving people with high prices and a lack of the ability to implement investment measures, especially in multiple apartment buildings. So self-help requires an active government program, if they already said "a," raising tariffs, we need to hear "b" how to make investments, accounting for consumption and fighting corruption through the analysis of Naftogazu's work by the Ukrainian National Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Mr. Galchenko, Opposition Block, please. The word is given to Nestor Sufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u22	Andrew Galchenko, Opposition Block. Please give the floor to Deputy Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u23	Please turn on Nestor Shufrich's microphone in 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! I wanted to talk about the Law on Special Investigation Commissions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I guess I'll have to talk to you about someone else. You know, no one today has the right to choose what to say and where to say. And, of course, it is unlikely that the Chair has the right to comment on the statement by the people's deputies. If there is such a desire, you can take your 3 minutes and express your point of view. The day before yesterday, we celebrated the great Day of Victory. And they were saying that there were some actions by people who came to place flowers on the Alley of Slava in Kiev, a monument to the Unknown Soldier in Slavyansk, in Dnepropetrovsk, in Harikov. I'm asking a question. Did those people who did only what they had done for many years in a row provoke action on 9 May? Why do we only see provocations on 9 May for the last two years? And I ask one more question: why is there an initiative today to deprive 9 May of the state holiday and holiday status? Does anyone doubt that May 9 is the Day of the Great Victory? You will ask the veterans of the Great Homeland War themselves, I stress that it is the Great Homeland War, not the Second World War, which we will probably remember on 2 September. And on May 9th, whether you like it or not, our grandfathers won the Great Homeland War. And it won't be the other way around, even if you kill yourself with wheels in the head, it'll still be the big day of victory on 9 May. And today there are many speculations about the symbols of victory. I ask the question: What if separatists in any part of Ukraine used red and black colors, would you give them up? I doubt that. Thus, we will never give up the security tape that our grandfathers won, came to Berlin and freed Europe from the fascists. They won then, we win today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u25	I ask once again as chairman not to split society and the session hall, it is very important from every national MP, which faction he does not represent. But society sees everything. I'm handing over the word to Ariev, "Clock of Peter Dusty." And I'd like to add two minutes to the performances because there were pick-ups at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, what we've just heard is another example of how some of us want to split our country apart and reintroduce the country's distribution scenario into each other. Ukraine is the only one, and it will always fight external aggression, despite the fact that such irresponsible politicians are beginning to bring hostility to our country, but not only do they do it, and it is also done among their own. I'm sorry, but when those of you who are standing next to medan today are ready to stick to each other's throats, they're not better off than those who are today dividing the country into those with the Colorado tape and those who fight against the Colorados from the east. So I also want to say today: I'm sorry, but those who today are accusing us of fighting corruption, we've seen their bribes broadcast live in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we have seen it today, and everyone remembers it, and these people today teach us how to fight corruption. So let's take charge of your bribes first. And if you call others "cows," then stop "bricking" first, first of all, yourself. And what I'm saying is that today you can throw a lot of things at President Dusty, he works in very difficult conditions when there's external aggression when there's internal strife. But if we're talking about offshores and what the offshores are for. To get out of taxes. I would like to remind you once again: President Poroshenko transferred 350 million dollars of his earnings in 2014 to the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and that is to be remembered. So who's making money? Those who come to the Supreme Council today, and then take bribes to the party, or the person who became president of Ukraine today, and 350 million of the profits he's making, he's putting on the front, on the army? And you don't have to forget that. But there's one more thing I want to say. No one is now talking to journalists or politicians about what are the other completely irresponsible companies that are currently working with the Crimean terrorists and are going against Ukraine and, in fact, against Ukrainian legislation, to judge their interests in Moscow, in Moscow's arbitral tribunal. I'm tomorrow, I don't have time for a performance, I'm going to publish these facts in my blog on Facebook, and you're going to see those who say today that they're Europeans and Europeans are actually cooperating with the aggressors, actually working with the invaders. Tomorrow you'll see it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Rebirth Party, Kulinich, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u28	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, on the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the problems that arise in privatising state-owned enterprises in the APC area. I'd like to stop at enterprises that are subordinated to the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences. At present, about 400,000 agricultural lands are being used continuously in the academy. In that, both the experts and the previous government have acknowledged that there has been virtually no control in the academic land, thousands of hectares have been given to whom and in an unknown direction in recent years. Therefore, the new leadership of Minagropolitics and the head of the academy needs to be stopped and privatization should not continue. Now it's clear that privatization is not only going to be done by corrupt businesses and quite successful, but more success issues are quite relative. Today the business is successful, and tomorrow a new manager is appointed, leading the company to bankruptcy. I want to give you an example from Poltavščina, this is a research enterprise called Stepne, the Poltav region, subordinated to the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Around this company, there have been some incomprehensible things going on for a long time, workers concerned that the land would be given to some unknown structure. At the same time, people fear that not only will the enterprise be destroyed but they will not receive the land that they are entitled to under law. Peter Sokirko, head of this company, has been in office for 32 years, and he probably deserves that the company is now in operation and is successful. Instead, he is offered a promotion, perhaps in paws, in order to appoint a new manager who has broken the business, such a classic scheme. Therefore, a fair disintegration of these lands among workers should be a prerequisite for privatization of state enterprises. There is also a need to create a full reserve fund to which 15 percent of the enterprise’s land is to enter. The corresponding bill number 3688 has already been supported in the committee’s first reading. And now it's a huge problem, because providing land for ATO soldiers and the social sphere is more important. And that's why the Academy of Agricultural Sciences needs to sort out these situations and remove the social tension. It is vital that people receive their portions of the pie and then determine who to give it to. So I would like to go to the president of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Jaroslav Hadzal, please stop the misunderstandings around the research firm Stepne in the Poltava region. Let us work together with Parliament on a transparent mechanism for the distribution of such lands. Corruption schemes should be stopped, and people should be given the right to privatize their pies, which they have the right to according to applicable legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u29	Thank you. Mrs. Romanova of Self-Help is conveying the word to National Deputy George.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u30	Comrades, good afternoon! I would like to draw your attention to the activities of the State Fiscal Service, at the end of April, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy heard a report by the head of Mr. Nasirov's fiscal service and his first deputy, the head of Mr. Billan's Tax Police. As a result of this meeting, members of the committee did not actually leave a stone on the stone from the State Fiscal Service. In spite of our efforts to make changes and to make tax compensation more transparent for the added value, there are dozens of appeals today from entrepreneurs that corruption in the area of tax compensation for the added value remains. Despite the creation of transparent registers to show who the state has to compensate and to whom it has already compensated, this information is actually not available in public access on the fiscal service website. We require the Supreme Council to adopt Bill 3810, which is to implement the only VAT return register and finally stop corruption in this room. The bill went through the committee’s first reading and may be considered by the Supreme Council, but unfortunately, it no longer goes into the hall for a month. Regarding customs: I would like to address Mr. Groysman and remind him that there is no point in giving the heads of the State Fiscal Service a new three months of order on customs. I already remember at least two such statements made by the previous Prime Minister, in the summer and in the fall of last year, when it was said that Mr. Nasirov was to set the customs order, and now we are talking again about about about three months. Corruption, smuggling as well as customs, exists. With regard to the activities of the tax police and Mr. Billan. Excuse me, it's actually an organized criminal group where four thousand operatives are risking businesses every day, cutting the money out of them. Official statistics on the activities of the tax police show that 85 percent of cases that are violated under 212 of the article "Avoidance of Taxation" are closed because of the absence of a component of the crime. Question: "Why do these things go wrong?" We're being reported closing conversion centers every day. I would like to point out that last year, according to official information provided by the fiscal service, closed conversion centers caused losses of nearly 4 billion dollars. At the same time, 520 million from the real economy, conversion centres, organizers -- actually zero -- are being compensated to the state budget. So the crimes that the tax police are supposed to be fighting are actually covered. Instead of taking action to raise funds from entities such as Ukrnafta, which is actually responsible for the 10 billion government budget, the tax police are somehow compromising small businesses, IT companies, and businesses. Therefore, we must immediately release Mr. Nasirov, Mr. Bilan, and appoint a new head of the fiscal service.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u31	Thank you. The bird gives the word to the deputy Krivenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Paul Kishkar and I have registered the Order "On the Termal Cessation of the Odessa City Head of Mr. Gennady Truhanov." In my hands, we're ready to hand them over to other offices, where there's a clear formal response, to the Federal Migration Service in the Republic of Dagestan (Russian Federation) given that Truhanov Hennady Leonidovich, such a year of birth, the native of Odessa, is documented by the passport of a citizen of the RF series. Next up, the show. Here's another passport from Sergiev Posada. Everybody knows everything. Odessa is run by citizens of the Russian Federation, and it is much better to have elections there. And whoever wins, we're afraid that a representative of the opposition bloc will win, someone who is more pro-Russian or more radically speaking for the Russian interests of citizens. But we don't care if there's a Russian Federation stakeout. It's better to have an open opponent, an open enemy, than to have someone who's secretly supportive. So this gentleman was the leader of the faction of the Odessa Region Party. Then the city council of Odessa turned to Yanukovich at the start of Eromaydan. On May 9, 2014, he and the George tape told us that Crimea was doing the right thing, that it was supposed to be. People's deputies in the past, and now they've reached out to the President, to the Head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, I personally turn to us, from the People's Movement to the Head of the Security Service, whom I respect personally, that please put an end to this and record the crime, and let us vote on the appointment of the Odessa elections. Letters to the President were also signed by Mrs. Timoshenko, Mr. Lozowi, Mr. Musei, Mr. Gavriluk, Bondar, Veličkovic, Solar, Osuhovsky, Musak, Korczynska, Sukhevich, Lucenko Irina, Denisenko, Heratchenko, Novak, Chumak, Matios and many other deputies. So I urge the Supreme Council not to allow us in Odessa to have a potential traitor to Ukraine, that is, to prevent Odessa from being ruled by a citizen of the Russian Federation. You've seen how you've managed to prevent provocations, but we have a lot of information that helps these provocations, including the city council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u33	Antonisztak Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Mr. Musia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u35	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Oleg Musei, Sokalščina, Red City, 124th constituency. I would now like to address directly and directly to the Head of the Supreme Council of Mr. Parubia and to. Mr. Andrey, direct address to you and to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, my landlady, Mrs. Siroid. You know, I'm coming back last week from our constituency, from your little and my little Motherland. And you know, there's this red-city enrichment plant where there's a huge terrion that's been around for 20 years. So, I want to get to your knowledge, and this is what I've heard from the Supreme Council rostrum, that two kilometers of this terrionic, which is near Redwater, near Sosnovka, near Townyard, 400 meters from Townyard, is burning two kilometers of ecological disaster. Half a year, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, more specifically, the State Department of Emergency Situations does nothing. The Ministry of Ecology does nothing. You know, there's this air right now, it's getting a little warmer, there's nothing to breathe about. 100,000 people: 80,000 -- in Montenegro, 15,000 -- in Sosnov and a small number of people in the surrounding villages -- will soon die. And this terricone turns into a new Chernobyl. You know what the whole table of Mendeleiev is there. And that's what burns, goes into the air and spreads all over the territory. I demand that we contact you immediately, because I am fighting, fighting, and unfortunately I can't do anything, to the Attorney General's Office about the opening of an immediate criminal case against these temporary administrators of this lady's name, who was recently in the Slovenian overrun with vegetables, which is the private owner of the Lviv enrichment plant, 37 percent of the shares belong to the state. Therefore, the Ministry of Energy and Mr. Nasalek are also directly responsible for the situation there. You know, they're going to hurt each other. The MHC responds that this is the Terricon Extinguishment Authority, the terricones' Department says that this factory has not extinguished the debt. So if we don't join forces now, we'll have an environmental disaster in the west of Ukraine and a second Chernobyl. So I ask you to immediately address it and form it as my MP, and a joint perhaps our MP's request or appeal that all state officials respond immediately -- and put out this scourge, which is coming not only to Western Ukraine, but to neighbouring Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u36	Thank you. Please describe this information as a parliamentary request. We'll respond to it. And the last performance is Igor Lapin, who gives the word to Mikola Knieżick. And that concludes the discussion. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u37	Thank you. I obviously wanted to step out of the rostrum, but my colleague Lazko said that he only lets his nursing mother go. Since I'm not a nursing mother, I'm going to answer to the opposition block from here. But first, I want to ask the President of Ukraine. I have my request to you, Mr. President. I'd like you to invite counselors here to the Supreme Council, counselors who started working with the government, this is Mr. Baltzerovich, Miklas, Czecha, Miller, many other intelligent and powerful economists who are supposed to meet us, the factions, and together with us finally form options for a solution to the Ukrainian crisis. These are respectable people that we have a lot of respect for and would like to see here. I would also like to address the Minister of Information Policy, Yuri Stetz, with a request to submit a bill that would not allow the Inter channel on the Day of Memory and Grief to have a body with the aggressor country, as it had done before. I'd like to address it exactly the same way. [[Congrats]] To his colleagues from the Opposition Block with one request not to dance on the bones. Excuse me, my father is a veteran of World War II, he fought, and nine numbers we stood with him and listened silently to the eternal fire and then went to the cemetery and mentioned those who died. We didn't dance at the cemetery as you suggest! And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the harassment of Vladimir Váterović and the Institute of National Memory, which is centrally conducted by the aggressor country with the support of the Opposition Block and those people here who do not represent Ukraine, but represent a colleague. Aggressor, get a safe shot. We support the Institute of National Memory in all its initiatives. We support the establishment of the 8th number, the 8th May Day of Memory and Reconciliation, as is the case in all European countries. We support the restoration of Ukrainian history and mention the memory of all Ukrainians: both those who died in the lava of the Red Army and those who died in the lava of the UPA and those who died in concentration camps at the hands of the fascists. Every Ukrainian should be in our memory, and we will not let this memory be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u38	Thank you. Mr. Mikolo, dear colleagues, let's concentrate tomorrow and adopt another package of decommunization laws. That'll be our best answer. There are several population points that are already aligned with the local communities, and they are waiting only for the decisions of our parliament, the decisions of each of us. Let's mobilize tomorrow by group, we'll make these decisions, and that'll be our best answer to all the provocateurs and Ukraine's haters. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is up. And we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, we have the first question of a draft decree defining a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the High Service Commission. This is Number 4459. But during the discussion, we held political consultations and it turned out that for one faction of Parliament, the Self-Help faction, there was a need to meet and discuss, to negotiate on this issue. They're asking us to move on. And the committee head does not deny that this decision is to be taken so that we do not go to an ineffective vote. Therefore, honourable colleagues, if there is no objection to question 4459, the bill is passed on to final agreement and consultation with political factions. I would like to apologize to the representatives who have come to the meeting of the Supreme Council, and we will invite them when the matter is ready to be considered. Thank you. The next bill is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Transcordon Cooperation as a Factor for Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process" (No.4410). Dear colleagues! The question of holding parliamentary hearings is important. And there's a proposal from the head of the committee, Jurynec Oksana Vasilovna, that we look at it in a simplified way. And, dear fellows, I'm going to put it to the vote. I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall and take their jobs. And prepare for the vote. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that there will be a vote. So, honourable colleagues who support the proposal to consider draft Decree No. 4410, on a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[10:50:51]] For a hundred and Did everyone vote? We didn't make it. I'll put the vote again, one more time. I ask my colleagues not to go to the hall during the vote and prepare for the vote. So once again, I'm proposing a simplified procedure for draft regulation No. 4410. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:51:42]] For-164 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the European Integration Committee's subcommittee, Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna, to report. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Before your consideration, the Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on 20 April this year the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Trans-Cooperation as a Factor for Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process. This is June 8, 2016, which is actually scheduled for these parliamentary hearings. — Registration No. 4410 of 13.04. In 2016. It was decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. In making such a decision, the national deputies and members of the committee came from the fact that holding parliamentary hearings on the matter at the hands of national MPs, representatives of executive authorities, local self-government, public experts and the diplomatic corps were extremely important and relevant. In particular, in view of the lack of adequate international coordination in the implementation of important State policies, the Committee of Ukraine considers that the potential and resource that is available in cross-regional and cross-border cooperation is not fully exploited, primarily because of its imperfect legislative security, the inadequate information of regions on cross-border cooperation opportunities and programmes, the lack of effective coordination between itself and the executive authorities at the local and local government bodies. We suggest in these discussions, on June 8, that we raise a very important question so that we can develop in our regions, in the Euroregions, using the cross-border position of each region. Please support and listen to all the comments and all the problems that have arisen in the country today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who wants to make a wish in the discussion? Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Please, Yuri Solovay. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u41	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Hutsulchi is a region that is cross - border and that is directly interested in these parliamentary hearings, since many issues today can be resolved by combining efforts, joint efforts by States that are united in the single border, starting with the transition points, by completing joint infrastructure projects, ending with the development of the tourism economy, ethnotourism, or the integration of the cultural possibilities of cross-border cooperation. And that's why the parliamentary hearings are necessary. I'm talking to all my colleagues because these are essentially the first parliamentary hearings that at the highest level in the state raise cross-border cooperation issues. So I am addressing all my colleagues in this Parliamentary Hall, despite the parties they represent, unanimously support the need to hold these hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Semenha Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u43	Please give me the word of Hani Romanovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! I call for the support of such necessary parliamentary hearings. Why? I want to make a sad statistic: since 2013, the number of visitors to Ukraine has doubled if 25 million people have come to us in 2012 and this is the people who have left money to create new jobs in Ukraine, and since 2013, 13 million people have come to us every year. And if you look at these travel flows, first of all, Moldova, second of all, the citizens of Belarus, third of all, the citizens of the aggressor country of Russia. And if you take the numbers, 2 million people come from Russia every year, and if you take the citizens of European countries, you get fewer. Recently, for example, we all suffered from a referendum in the Netherlands. But as residents of the Netherlands can vote and support Ukraine's accession to the EU, if they are not actually in our possession, all Europeans are afraid to come to Ukraine because they think that we have a war that is unsettling. Therefore, cross-border cooperation with EU countries is urgently needed for us – we simply need Europeans to show real Ukraine European and peaceful. Thank you. Please all support such urgent parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u45	Thank you. We're about to have our last speech in the debate, and I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the hall and let them know that there's going to be a vote in three minutes. And now I give the floor to Martinjak Sergio Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u46	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u47	Dear Head and Honorable Fellows! I understand that all of our problems are solved in the country and only cross-border cooperation needs to be discussed. Obviously, consideration is needed, but first of all, we should respond to the moods that people live with. I hope that the MPs during the long break, primarily the Marjorie MPs, worked in the districts, heard and listened to people, and apparently they talked about things that in the Supreme Council, unfortunately, don't sound very good. Because I'll tell you this, in general, one woman said to me, "I live by the air." So our people live by the air, and we're doing political accounting here. The question was that certain officials who were citizens of other countries should be deprived of their authority. Dear colleagues, but you are some of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who have been written about, who are citizens of other countries, and there is no reaction because they are in the right factions. The next moment. Why aren't we discussing gas tariffs? Isn't that a problem that's burning people up and that's being talked about, and blocking the rostrum? What are we waiting for? People need to be explained how they will continue to live. Why are we not discussing other issues, such as how we can withstand professionalism? Why are we not considering an appropriate law? Why don't we consider pension legislation? Why not consider the issue of a pension tax distinction? When necessary, without any committee, without any scientific expertise, bills are pushed and reviewed and voted twenty times. There is now the Law on the Cancellation of Pension Tax. Look at the schedule, I feel like there's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u48	Please finish for 10 seconds. Is there a need, Mr. Vladimir, to complete? Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u49	I'm done. Obviously, parliamentary hearings are necessary, but at these parliamentary hearings Parliament should listen and make appropriate conclusions, but let us respond to people’s requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u50	Thank you. Mr. Vladimir, there's been a call to me, so I'm going to respond briefly. I deliberately ask that Wednesday’s questions be asked by those who unite the hall. Because, unfortunately, many of our deputies, including senior officials, are very difficult to take in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, especially on Wednesday. This is a general problem and I urge all of us to work together to make sure that all of our colleagues are at work. Although I would like to stress that most of the national deputies in that room are always working, they are active and dedicated. And I ask you all to support the reforms proposed jointly by the European Parliament and the Ukrainian Parliamentarians in reforming Parliament's work. I'm sure we'll make our work more effective. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, there is political will, I see, all factions support the decision. All that matters is that all the deputies are in the workplace. Maybe the Radical Party would pause the blockade for a minute, vote, and we would. Make sure no one grabs the rostrum. All right, then, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Transcordon Cooperation as a Factor of Euro-Integration Process" (number 4410) as a whole, as proposed by the Committee. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Dear colleagues! Please take part in the vote, we vote 4410. [[11:02:05]] For 218. Dear colleagues! Is there anyone who hasn't been able to vote? I see the requirement, I ask you to resume your jobs and prepare for the vote for your return. I'm going to put the MPs on the way back once, and I'm going to ask my colleagues to come into the hall. I'll put it back once, but please, fellow MPs, take up jobs. And, dear fellows, then when the question of deviation, I ask you all, it was a profound understanding, it can't be my whim, it's the presence of deputies in the hall. That's why it's not about me, it's about the fellow MPs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Transcordon Cooperation as a Factor for Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process" (4410). Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the hearing, please vote. Please vote. [[11:03:44]] For 219 Please turn on the factions. We see factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to go to the next bill and, if there is no objection in the room, we will go back to making a decision on this bill. Is there no objection? None. Okay. Let's go back to making a decision. Thank you. The next draft of the ruling, this is 4476, is the draft Order on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the world leaders and all members of the international community on the veneration of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people and the condemnation of violations by the Russian Federation of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people. This decision was prepared with the participation of all factions, all deputies, and it requires an urgent decision to support our colleagues in the occupied territory. And I hope that the room is well understood when it comes to making this decision. Now we have to put it in the agenda to make a decision. I'm asking the people's deputies to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. I'm deeply convinced that we can't apply political intrigues to similar bills, these are bills of national importance and national solidarity of Ukrainians. I ask everyone to take a responsible vote. Ready to vote? I'm afraid I don't see the MPs who called us to work in the hall anymore. You're ready, aren't you? Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a motion for inclusion in the agenda and for a decision to be taken on draft regulation 4476. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. We'll support the Crimean Tatars! Please. [[11:06:32]] For 232 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Let me show you through the factions. Thank you. Thank you. I just want to emphasize to you that there is no coalition and there is no opposition on those issues, there is a state of Ukraine. And on this issue we should act in solidarity, not by any sign, but only by a sign: who is for Ukraine, and who is against Ukraine. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Chubarov Refata. And I think it's worth it and it's the right thing to do, if Mr. Chubarov, you'll be speaking from the main rostrum of the country. I'll take you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u51	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Every day we receive from Russia’s temporarily occupied Crimea black messages that indicate a sharp deterioration in the human rights situation, systematic and targeted repression against the Crimean Tatar people. On April 26, the Russian occupying court, Majlis, of the Crimean Tatar people, was recognized as an extremist organization and its activities were banned. The notoriously wrong and totally criminal decision of the Russian occupying court caused a wide resonance in the world. We thank the representatives of many countries, their parliaments, the international institutions that condemned the criminal acts of the Russian occupying forces against the higher representation of the executive body of the Crimea people. A broad discussion of the situation in the Crimea will also take place tomorrow at the European Parliament’s session of the new threat posed by the occupying people against the Crimean Tatar people. The National Deputies of Ukraine, Peruby, the Highlander, Irina Heratschenko, Burbak, Ms. Hanna Hopko, Levus, have prepared a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on appeals to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the world leaders. Let's not read, let's not waste time. I would like to say that the draft appeal was considered by the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, particularly the Committee on Foreign Affairs. During these sessions, some clarifications were expressed, some additions that were accepted entirely by the project’s authors. I want to read these clarifications for the protocol. It is proposed in the draft decree, which you have in your hands, your honourable colleagues, the name of paragraph 1 and 2 of the draft after the words of the "Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE" to be supplemented by the term "Parliamentary Assembly of NATO". In the draft, the name after the words "the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE" is added to the term "the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO." In paragraph 1 after the words “General Declaration of Human Rights of 1948”, add the phrase “Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of the Crimes of Genocide, 1948” by deleting it from the end of the paragraph accordingly. In paragraph two, the word "inadmissible" is replaced by the word "inadmissible." The fourth, the sixth, is to be written in the following editions accordingly. Recalling that a systematic violation of human rights is the basis for bringing the State concerned to justice under international law, condemning the unlawful occupation and attempted annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation in paragraph 8 of the word "Ukraine" to replace the term "the Supreme Council of Ukraine" Paragraph 16 at the end of the term “criminal ethnocid” is to be supplemented by the term “and the violation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination of 1966”. In paragraph 21, the term "occupation and illegal annexation" should be replaced by the term "contrary occupation and attempted annexation". Dear colleagues! So all of these clarifications, additions, they're purely editorial, I've read them all to you. And for the protocol, they also accept us. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to vote in favour of the draft ruling on the basis and in general. And confirm the appeal of the Supreme Council to respect the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people and to condemn violations by the Russian Federation of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people with proposed changes and additions. And in the end, dear colleagues. I really want to ask you to reject any political or other differences in this vote and to vote in favour. This will be our worthy response to the repression of the invaders against the Ukrainian citizens they carry out daily in the temporarily occupied Crimea. And it will also be worthy of our action before our fellow MEPs, who will also make the appropriate decision tomorrow in Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Rephat! Dear colleagues! It was important for us that Mr. Chubarov could speak as much as he needed. But let's take the whole bill and we'll look at the simplified procedure. So that all the next speakers can already speak according to the rules of the reduced procedure. If there's room support, I'm going to put it to the vote right now, and I hope you understand. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. Those who support the consideration of this decision by a reduced procedure, please support. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:14:18]] For 184 Decision taken. Thank you to the People's Deputies for understanding. And I'd like to invite you to our co-report, Hope's Anna Mikolayevna. Mrs. Hanno Mikolayevno, please. All right, out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! On May 18, the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Crimean Attraction, Ukraine on the contrary draws the attention of the world and the international community to violations of the rights of Crimean Tatars. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is requesting the support and adoption of a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the referral of the Supreme Council to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, NATO, world leaders, all members of the international community on the veneration of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people and the condemnation of violations by the Russian Federation of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people with the proposed committee of observations. I would also like to thank all the national deputies who are members of our delegations to Paris, the OSCE, NATO for participating in various international conferences, together with various civil activists, and seeking first the release of political prisoners, seeking the return of Crimea to Ukraine. In this decree, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Supreme Council, demands that the Russian Federation cease immediately the policy of violating the human rights and freedoms of a citizen in Crimea as an integral part of Ukraine’s sovereign territory, particularly the rights of Crimean Tatars as the indigenous people of Ukraine. We also urge the international community to recognize the deportation of Crimea Tatars in the 44th year by genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. We call on the international community to contribute to the accountability of all those responsible for the illegal occupation and attempted annexation of Crimea and systematic and widespread human rights violations in Ukrainian occupied territory. I call upon all the factions of Parliament, even those who block the rostrum, to support this important decision, bearing in mind that on May 18, the whole world will celebrate Ukraine, I note this, the very Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Crimean Tatar Genocide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the discussion and record: two for, two against, following the discussion of the bill. Please record, please sign up for your statement. Please, Vladimir Ariev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u55	I ask you to pass the word to Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, we clearly support this decision. You and I are now witnessing actually the third genocide of the Crimean Tatars. The first was after being captured by the Russian Empire in the 13th century, the second genocide was the Stalin genocide, and the third is now seen when people are brought out of the mosque when people are arrested by Crimean Tatars. And we have to support them all in the Ukrainian world. I'm addressing all the Ukrainians who are particularly in the south, all of your familiar Crimean Tatars, help them out with what you can, ask them what they need, local deputies, our former colleague, and now the head of the administration of Herson's Lord Gordieev solve all the problems of Crimean Tatars. The People’s Movement of Ukraine and Kurultai, Majlis, were always partners. Before the Russian aggression in the Supreme Council of Crimea, there was even a faction of Kurultay-Rukh, which was fully in Ukrainian positions and protected Crimea. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u57	Thank you. Maxim Burbak conveys the word to the initiator of this decree to Sergey Visock. Please, Sergey High.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We all see that the Russian Federation is actually running a policy of ethnocid of Crimean Tatars on the Crimean Peninsula. We see Crimean Tatars being squeezed out of Crimea, we see violent repression, arrest and detention of Crimean Tatar activists, search in mosques. We understand that in fact the Russian Federation will try to do what Mr. Stalin did in his day, this tyrant is bloody. She'll try to deport, but forced not by wagons anymore, but by the so-called pseudo voluntary deportation of Crimean Tatars, she'll survive them from the peninsula. And our duty as Ukrainian deputies is to do everything we can to ensure that the international community knows about these plans and helps us to stop them. Now, unfortunately, we can only see that we can only identify this problem and encourage international co-operation, our partners, the Ukrainians, the entire community for justice. But I believe that the time will come when Ukraine, with its power, with its sword, with its fire, will be able to free both Crimea and Crimean Tatars from the new fascist-Russian game. And I want to urge the entire room to pass this test. And what I'm saying is that for me, the vote for this decision is going to be a signal to whoever's supporting the occupation and to whoever's causing them to oppose it. The pro button is the button that should be pressed by all the patriotic MPs in Parliament. The Kremlin agents don't vote against it or vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there still speakers on this issue? From Fatherland, please, Gregory Restless, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u60	Gregory Nemira, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, Mr President, I think it is clear that all members of Parliament who are aware that human rights are indivisible should support the draft of this decision. I thank my colleagues for taking the initiative to make this decision, but let us also be responsible. I think it's time to stop or at least make more rational decisions where we turn to international society and at the same time ask, do all Ukraine, the state, those on whom it depends, make sure that human rights, including the rights of the Crimean Tatar people, are not violated? Did Ukraine do everything, or did the government do everything? Do we, colleagues, have a strategy for the Crimea invasion? Whether we have a reintegration strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u61	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u62	Those people, including the Crimea, who went out of their own free will, that would be the right thing to do. But today we have to take a solid step and I call on all factions of the Ukrainian Parliament to support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u64	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. What Russia is now doing in Crimea is another crime of this absolute monster that repeats the same crimes that it has committed in the past. In fact, here today, many screams were hysterical against the adepts of the "Russian world" and the "Moscow Fifth Column" that protected Stalinism. In fact, what happened in Crimea in 1944 with the Crimean Tatars is one of those crimes of Stalinism, which shows that the criminal nature of the regime was at the level of Hitler’s regime. And now we have to speak, of course, and support the Crimean Tatars, but we also have to, respecting and understanding the suffering of the Crimean Tatars, not to forget the ethnic Ukrainians, whose hundreds of thousands are now in Crimea, who also have no right to Ukrainian language, to Ukrainian school, to the Ukrainian education, which is being persecuted today by Moscow's invaders. Therefore, we too should keep reminding ourselves of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u65	Thank you. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask the deputies to come to the hall, the heads of the factions, please invite the deputies to the hall. And I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Mrs. Oleg, please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Now it seems quite right to me if, in voting for this issue, we ask ourselves honestly what he himself has done in Parliament, in international meetings, in international delegations to protect Crimean Tatars, in Crimean Ukrainians, in protecting the Crimea and asking himself this question. It's absolutely obvious that we have to activate this work. On any international site, we should not waste time on internal strife, but provide complete information on what is happening in Crimea with Crimea Tatars, violations of Ukrainian rights, violations of the rights of Russians who are in the same position as the Ukrainians. Not to be overlooked are our Crimea political prisoners, Oleg Sántsov, Kolchenka, who today are held as prisoners of war in the Crimean prisons. And so let's vote in favour of this decision not just to delegate it to our fellow international organizations, but first of all to each one of us, and Andrew Parubius and I put it as a delegation to a high-level parliamentary rostrum, a high-level body of ours as Parliament leaders, all international meetings to use to tell the truth about what's going on in the Crimea. And in this context, we want to thank those people who are today the moral authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- Mustafa Jamilev and Refat Chubarov, who are worthy to represent the Crimean Tatar people in Parliament. What we really need today is to use their knowledge and experience to bring this information to the world. And finally, you know, it's very important that we use our inspiration and time not for the blockade, maybe for these stands, to fight each other, but to unite in the fight against an external enemy who has not yet deviated from Ukraine. And then, in fact, we have a chance to both share Crimea and work together to reintegrate Donbas into Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. An important figuratively responsible vote. I ask all national deputies to prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the world leaders and all members of the international community on the veneration of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people and the condemnation of violations by the Russian Federation of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people (number 4476) on the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[11:27:13]] For 240 The law is passed. Let me show you through the factions. I want to thank the initiator of the bill, Sergey Visocki, and the entire team that prepared the bill, and I think we have made an important and responsible decision. But please remain seated, colleagues. Before that, we had an important parliamentary vote. I've been observed, Victor Pinzenik, that we can't stand the vote, but on the organizational issues of the Supreme Council, without a return, I can put it to the vote again. I'm going to put the vote back on the committee, and I'm asking everyone to concentrate, especially on Peter Dustenka's Block, because Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna is the initiator of this, and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a question that we've already discussed, that everyone has decided together, that it's common and that everyone supports it, that only lack of discipline in the room has prevented us from making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Transcordon Cooperation as a Factor for Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process" (No.4410) as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:29:00]] For 242 It's been decided. I also welcome the drafters. And we're moving on to our next chapter, these are questions of second reading that we didn't get to look at yesterday, but they're extremely important and resonant. We have in the next agenda a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure openness and access to information on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its committees and Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, a very important question, a very resonant question, and I'd like to take into account both in his deliberations and in his voting responsibility. This is a law that is discussed in the second reading. In the second reading, so, you know, there's a special procedure: the reporter's speech, and then the work is fixed. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. From the spot, turn on the microphone from the place. Paul Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u68	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on February 3, the Committee considered proposals from legal entities to draft the Law amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure openness and access to information on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration 1591), which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 17, 2015. A bill to prepare him for his second reading was tabled in terms defined by the 116th Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and 34 proposals were made by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Zaljček Svetlana, Levchenka Jurya, Timchuk Dmitr, Lensky, Ptašnik, Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, as well as the National Deputies, members of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee prepared a comparative table for the second reading, which contains all the proposals made and non-responsible, including 22 proposals, taken into account in part one proposal, 22nd, and took into account editorially two proposals, 3rd and 6th. A comparative table of the bill for second reading is prepared by the editorial department of the Chief Documentary Administration and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules on the outcome of the second reading of the draft law, adopt it on second reading and in general. We ask for your support, and we are ready to go on offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u69	Thank you. So the colleagues were ready to work on the amendments. There are not too many of them, but each one of them must be discussed. So 1 amendment, which was rejected, is the national deputy Zalitschuk. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Yeah, next, 8th. It's a valve. Does it insist on 8 amendments? Don't insist, all right? I hear shouts from the hall. The 7th amendment is the amendment of the People's Deputies of Pinzenik and Aresonkova. The Honourable Head of the Committee! Mr. Pinzenik! There is an insistence that the 7th amendment be corrected for confirmation. Please comment, if possible, on the 7th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u70	As far as I can tell, it's about confirming my amendment to the bill. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, my amendment to the bill is my own amendment to the committee which is the basis of this bill in the form of a second reading. If we support it, then we can vote on the bill. As a whole, in the second reading. If it's not supported, then the table for second reading needs a whole new process, and we're going to have to send it back for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, one minute, Lechchenko. I'm asking the MPs to come into the room, this amendment is the principle of this bill, and without it, we can bring the bill out. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u74	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Nevertheless, I would like to explain why I demand this amendment for confirmation to be placed and I urge the hall not to support it. The fact is that this amendment actually nullifies the bill. One of the main objectives of this bill is to force committees to publish specific documents in a timely manner. Yes, this amendment suggests that the bill should be removed by referring to the standard of another project that was adopted last December, but this rule only says one phrase that committees should publish documents about their activities. It's not written when, it's not written what. It will be appropriate if this amendment remains valid, the same situation will remain as it is now, when the committees want to – publish after a month, want – publish after six months, want – do not publish anything except protocols, and so on. So I think that this amendment needs to be cancelled, and in fact it doesn't change anything on the rest of the table until the second reading, as opposed to what was just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasise that Amendment No. 7 is supported by a committee of professionals and, in fact, if we don't support it, as I understand, we are at risk of breaking the bill as a whole. And so I ask everyone to concentrate, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I would like to make a proposal to confirm Amendment No. 7, which is supported by the committee and which committee calls on all national MPs to support. Who supports the committee's proposal, Amendment No.7, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[11:36:06]] For-164 The decision is not made. Please, one minute Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I'd like to give you one brief explanation. So it's about. Mr. Levchenko rightly said that the amendment was about time limits. Thus, the Rules of the Supreme Council do not specify the period during which certain documents, namely, transcripts and protocols, should be drawn up. Instead, Mr. Levchenko insists that the dates of the publication of these documents be defined, i.e. the deadlines are not available, and there is a time limit for the publication. This is certainly a flaw in the bill that we are currently considering. We have no right to amend the 51st Rules, 116th of the Rules forbids us to do so. I personally make a commitment when it comes to introducing a new bill that would make changes to 51st. But that's not the way to solve the questions, unfortunately, that's not how the lines are set. We're breaking the bill. And in this case the Rules are balanced by the term absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u77	Thank you. So 9th Amendment, Lensky. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 10th, Pinzenic. Is it insisting? Mr. Victor, don't you insist? Victor Pinzenik, 10th Amendment. 13th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone to Lechchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u78	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I didn't take a line on the last speaker. You know, when no specific document preparation periods are set, they're not in the law at all, but they're in the publication periods, they're in the same way. Well, that's obvious logic, so I don't understand why such completely transparent manipulations are said, yes. This is the first time. As for my amendment today, which I now propose, it was rejected just on the basis that Amendment 7. The point is, in my amendment, I was just suggesting that I shorten the preparation periods, actually, of the corresponding documents, on the one hand. On the other hand, I suggested that I publish in a list of documents to be published by committees, that a clear list be published every time there are no MPs, MPs who have not been on the relevant committees. So please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues who support the amendment No. 13 of the National MP Yuri Lewchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[11:39:10]] For 155 The decision is not made. 14th Amendment, People's Deputy Timchuk. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 15th, Bird. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, as Mr. Levchenko has rightly pointed out, it is not sufficient to provide for the committee’s obligation to publish those documents that come out of it, to indicate the time periods during which both the transcripts and the minutes of the committee’s meetings and the procedures of the committee’s day meetings should be published, otherwise this rule will not work and, in fact, the committee will not perform its duties for years. At the same time, I will not insist on my amendment, because we have spoken to the members of the regulatory committee, and it would be appropriate, in terms of the legislative technique, to insert this amendment into another article of the Rules Act, which unfortunately was not reflected in the bill, and we cannot do so at present. So we spoke with Paul Pinzenik and Svetlana Zlatschuk, and we agreed to submit a very fast new bill that deals with the problem. So I ask you not to put the amendment in place for confirmation, but to vote and support the bill with the fact that we will quickly finalize and submit a new bill and make the necessary changes to the articles of the Rules in which, from the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u81	Thank you. I'm not betting on confirmation, we're settling this situation with a separate bill. 20th, Svetlana's Reserve. Don't insist. Yeah? 28th, Pinzenik. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we have passed all the amendments that have been made to this bill, and I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to call MPs into the Hall and ask the heads of factions to mobilize deputies for the vote. The bill, which had a great resonance and discussion, which is urged both by experts and by the public, and therefore also by voting on it will be important and symbolic for the openness of Parliament's work. In the reform of Parliament that we are carrying out, the openness of Parliament is one of the key and twofold tasks. And we need to make a number of decisions in order to get to a new level and a new stage in our work. So I'm asking everyone to pay attention, and I'm asking them to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Ready, guys? Please prepare for the vote. And I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure openness and access to information on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its committees and Ukrainian National Deputies, No. 1591 on second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:43:27]] For 206 I can put it back again. Or rereading to the committee. My colleagues, give me some advice. I'm asking you to include the factions. Yeah, turn on the factions. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. I'll put them back in. I'll put it back once. I'm asking you to mobilize as many of our fellow deputies as possible. The question of openness to Parliament is not a matter of coalition or opposition, it's a question of the Ukrainian Parliament, of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, I'm proposing a return to the debate, a vote in the entire draft of Act 1591 on openness and access to information on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the consideration of the issue as a whole, please vote. Please vote. [[11:44:57]] For 206 No votes. Dear colleagues! I will now make a proposal under the Rules for re-reading. I'm asking you not to leave the hall, colleagues. I want to tell you when your bill will come out of the hall, I think you'll be hurt and uncomfortable about it. Because we have no causal link, everyone thinks not my bill and goes, and then when his bill is asked, and why is everyone different? And it has a connection, and it has connected moments. So the proposal under the Rules is to return to the committee for a second reading. Yes, is it supported by all, the right offer? And I'm voting for a motion to return to the committee for a second reading of draft law 1591. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:46:19]] For the 220. Dear colleagues! I see, Yemen, please, one minute. And I'm asking everyone to stay put. Please, one minute, Yemen. What's the other offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u82	Thank you. National Deputy Jemetz Leonid Alexandrovich, People's Front faction. Mr. Head, I think it's just the people's deputies, they haven't heard the bill we're talking about right now. I think they're talking about other bills, they've lost some attention to our agenda, and they don't hear that we're going to have a key vote now for the openness of Parliament's work. The MPs do not understand that the names of those who do not vote for this bill today will be permanently stained, such as those who do not want to show their work openly to the Ukrainian people and want to hide their work on committees or their work, or not their work as a national deputy. I urge the National Deputies once again to take this matter seriously and I very much ask that, for the support of the House together, put the Head back on the vote. Fellows, consider that this is crucial to you and to the Ukrainian people, to understand the work of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't react so emotionally, Mr. Ruslan. All right, let's take a deep breath. Now I'm not allowed to speak. Dear colleagues, we have a few willing speakers. I'll tell you one thing that's important. First. Don't split up. Mr. Victor, I'm going to put it again like I did. I put one more time on the way back. The rules don't forbid me to put another one on the way back. Let's talk about whether we have a mechanism to make a decision. We have 220 votes. I ask you, first of all, to keep your distance. Secondly, I will now give my word to Ruslan Knyazevich, then to Sergiy Leschenko. But I'm asking you in your speeches. You've been making suggestions on how we should deal with this situation. Okay? Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make the paphos a little bit less in our comments, and the rationality a little bit more. To say that this is an end decision can only be made by people who have not read what is inside this law. I'll tell you what this law is about. This is a law that was written until the proper direction of the Head of the Supreme Council was given that all meetings of the committee should be made available and that the transcripts should be published accordingly. So it's actually 90 percent done. There's a bunch of things left that aren't settled yet. I'll call them. The first is that reports should be published on the website as a result of missions. The second is that it is necessary to publish the funds that are allocated to members of the airfare and to stay in the hotel. And the third is that we have to publish the funds of the Supreme Council. Mr. Head, nothing prevents you from publishing these things as Head of the Supreme Council. What Is the Purpose of Laws? Guys, why are we humiliating ourselves so much? Why do we humiliate the newly chosen Head? We have no reason. We have no reason not to trust him. I think he's going to deal with these impeccables, as they say, with tasks and without any laws. And laws have to be passed, only they are needed for the people, not for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u85	I, for one moment, want to confirm that my mandate as Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Groysman Vladimir Borisovich, has simply decided on a number of issues that are in this bill. I want to support Ruslan Knazevitch in that regard. Please, Sergey Lechchenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u86	Colleagues, I wanted to pay attention to what this law refers to at all. This law is not about a closed business club, it's not about a pool club, it's not about a poker club, it's about the highest legislature of the state. Parliaments everywhere in the world are the main legislative body that has to act transparently. When they went to the elections, everyone promised transparency to Parliament when they went to Brussels, when they were sitting with President Cox and the current leadership of the European Commission, they all promised transparency, there were no votes. I ask Mr. Speaker, please we have a newspaper called Voice of Ukraine to publish the full results of voting for this law on the pages of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Likewise, I urge all journalists who are present on the balcony and who are watching the broadcast in their editorials, please carefully analyze the voting for this law and publish the names of those deputies who refuse the transparency of the highest legislative body. By name, by faction, by county, by whoever didn't specifically press the pros button.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u87	Thank you. Debenkov, please, one minute. Then – Illenko, then – Ivchenko, then – Sumar and then we finish, society. I'm sorry. [[th m in s a l i]] So it'll be endless. For it to not be infinite, I have called an exclusive list of who will have the word. Debenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! It is unlikely to be right to call this bill because, at the very least, it will not improve the life of Ukraine’s average citizen. But this bill is an important one in terms of ensuring transparency in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not as a higher legislative body, but as a single legislative body in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to point out who doesn't. The Opposition Block faction unanimously supports the bill, because according to the current version of the Ukrainian Act, "On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", only with the permission of the chairman can a video be recorded by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to point out that this whole thing, not just in the plenary room, is happening in committee meetings so that people can look at which of the deputies support this decision. Because, very often, there are MPs who vote in meetings one by one, and there is another in the plenary room. So I'd like to support the bill for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u89	Thank you. One minute, Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u90	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. There was a discussion that said that 90 percent of all these requirements had been met, everything was fine, the committees were working transparently. Well, you know, a good half of the committees, for example, have decided that they won't put up an audio session. And that's exactly what the law is for. In order to put all of these things in one frame of mind, there's no way that someone in their own right is sabotaging the openness and transparency of the work of the Supreme Council and the work of the committees, because it's very important. We are talking about the transparency of Parliament, and now in Parliament a bill that provides this transparency is failing. And then there's some ridiculous stuff going on about what it is, and it's not necessary at all, and it's not even clear why it's happening. This is a requirement of Ukrainian society. Parliament is a public and political body. All organs, including the committees, must be public, open to any Ukrainian citizen and dot. All those who don't vote want to preserve the Soviets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u91	Thank you. There hasn't been a performance since Fatherland. Please, Yvchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u92	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Finally, we have to legislatively establish the openness of Parliament. I support colleagues who talk about what we have every month to know how much a deputy spends on renting an emergency room, how much he spends on shipping. Most importantly, we have a lot of deputies going on all kinds of foreign trips, because they're even in a plenary meeting. What are they doing there? They have to report what they saw? What Did They Learn? Who were they exchanging contact with? Who will be in contact with whom? And who is blocking the bill today, let's see. Yesterday, Bill 4469, the faction of Peter Prashenko, voted 137 votes. Today they give 70 for this bill. So, colleagues, we don't want openness, we're going abroad, and we're not going to report to the voters what we're doing. I support my colleagues, we need to publish who and how this bill is voted in favour of, in the districts, and send it to people. We must finally put an end to this and legally strengthen the direct openness of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u93	From the People's Front, I see two hands raised: Yuri Timoshenko and Victoria Sumar Who will act? [[B in m in s a l in]] Victoria Sumar, please, Victoria Sumar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, well, right, of course, Ruslan Knazevitch, that when he said that many of these things have been settled by the Head, it is true, although not all matters have been settled there. But this isn't about the will of Vladimir Groysman or of Andrew Paris. It's about the will of the Ukrainian Parliament, whether it's accountable to the Ukrainian people or not, that's what this is about, in fact. And I think the speakers are changing, and this will needs to be fixed at the legislative level, because it's taxpayer money. And they need to know, tax payers, where they're being used by national MPs. We talk so much about trust, that Parliament today, think about number one in the U.S. government mistrust rating. In what way can we correct this? We can work effectively, we can work more and we can show, but the main thing is that we have to be transparent and accountable for what we do. I'm for being direct broadcasts on the Internet by committee cameras, working group meetings to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u95	Thank you. Do we have to finish, Mrs. Victoria? No, it's not. Yeah, she hasn't had Self-Help yet, one minute. The Radical Party is one minute. And we finish the discussion, we move on to the decision-making process. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u96	It's actually a bit of a shame, but as a parliament, we don't approve or report to society at our own expense. As a parliament, we spend hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayers, and this information is neither us nor us, and the more, citizens are not controlled, it is simply not available. There is a clear requirement in this law that the Supreme Council Rules, along with other legislation, require the approval of the funds and the publication of information that the Supreme Council spends on taxpayers’ money. It's very important to pass this law and start revealing to citizens how we spend their money. Not only as a representative of Self-Help, but also as head of the Parliamentary Anti-Corruption Committee, I am very much asking everyone to vote in favour of this law. In our committee, we have been fulfilling its standards for a year. It's nice and helpful.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I just want to consult before. Mr. Victor, it's just that two people have been speaking since the Peter Dusty Block. And I'm afraid we're just going to have an imbalance if you can understand me in that direction. Let's have another minute with the Radical Party. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction certainly supports transparency in the work of Parliament, but at the same time we demand transparency in the work of power: both the President, and the government, and the National Bank, and the National Commission on the regulation of the public services market, which tripled the tariffs for heat and hot water. There's no transparency. We block the parliamentary rostrum on the second day, rather than sit down and vote, because we demand the establishment of an inquiry commission in Parliament into the investigation of corruption in power, the highest-ranking owners. Because we're asking the government to cancel the decision by which they took the right of citizens to receive gas at the tax price and they don't have the ability to pay for that gas today. The Ukrainian Parliament will have confidence and respect for Ukrainian citizens only when decisions are made in the walls of this Parliament that will enable people to live decently, to have wages, pensions and jobs. Unfortunately, there is no such thing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, all factions have expressed their position. I want to remind you that we got 220 votes on the proposal to return to the second reading. Dear colleagues, there were only six votes missing, and I put one more time back on the vote. I very much ask everyone to mobilize who supports this proposal. When we return to work on the committee, we will be able to correct any misunderstandings there. But I wouldn't want to reject this bill at all. And I ask everyone to concentrate and prepare for the vote, to enter the hall, to prepare for the vote. I ask the faction secretariat to inform the Supreme Council that there will be a vote now. Dear colleagues! I'm gonna say it again. I've had a consultation, and if we don't vote back now, the bill will just be rejected. So, honourable colleagues, I ask everyone to take a responsible vote now, to take up jobs. And I'm proposing a return to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure openness and access to information on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its committees and Ukrainian National Deputies. Back to the debate. And I promise that then I'll put the second one again, not the whole one, if you support the return to consideration. 1591. Anyone who supports the return to consideration, please vote. Wait, let Ola the Mantis get to his place of work. I hope that when there are laws of medicine, everyone will be in their workplaces. So who supports the proposal to return, please vote. 1591. Please vote. [[12:01:43]] For 233 And, colleagues, as promised, I'm putting to the vote a bill to return to the committee for second reading work, for second reading work, for re-second reading. 1591 is a return to the Committee to prepare for the second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, let's vote not to lose the bill. Please vote. [[12:02:27]] For 241 Decision taken. Please include the factions. Thank you, dear colleagues, for the difficult but interesting discussion. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. We'll continue our work at 12.35. Please be disciplined in the Hall at the appointed time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, take their seats, get ready for work. Blockers please approach the rostrum to continue locking. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, we have the following two bills, which are being considered in the second reading. These are the bills that have been transposed since yesterday. I remind you that the procedure for their consideration is defined, and I just want to make sure that there is a reporter for the first draft of the Logwinsky Bill, Georgi Volodymyrovich. Georgi Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues, without a report, I cannot begin the discussion. Contact Georgi Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, we are initiating a review of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to Improve the Judicial Protection of Foreigners and Uncitizens and to address individual issues related to the opposition to illegal migration. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations, Georgi Volodymyrovich. Will you report from the scene? Please. I think a representative of Crimean Tatars, the Radical Party, will be able to speak from the rostrum. You'll be out of town, won't you? Please report from the scene, Georgi Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Your attention is given to the bill under number 3159. This is a bill designed to fulfill obligations to the IMF. But I would like to point out that the main thing here is not the IMF, but we are correcting the really big problems that exist in our country. That's why I'd like to say that this is a more targeted bill to protect the territory of our state. What is the point in this case? The point is that even when there are Ukrainian lawbreakers in our country who have broken the rules and are determined by the court's decision that they have to be forced out of it, and we don't have a mechanism to actually do this, really send people beyond it. And this allowed for the creation of the so-called State of Illegal Migration. And the IMF rightly pointed to this problem, and we voted for it in the first reading. Then, on the basis of the decision made in the Supreme Council, we formed a joint working group. The working group joined by the Ukrainian Migration Service, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Human Rights Council Commissioner, law enforcement organizations, the State Border Service, and together we have produced a single and understandable package of amendments that, on the one hand, protects citizens' rights, does not allow them to violate, on the other hand, it creates a balance so that we can use really effective mechanisms. As far as the bill is concerned, I would like to point out that there have been some amendments that I would like to comment on, the Chief Legal Office, regarding the comments on the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. We fully agree with them and ask the Chief Legal Authority to bring appropriate technical and legal remedies to the bill for this purpose. This is a matter of clarifying the regulations regarding the determination of the subject matter of the protocol and the failure to do so. Foreigners and non-citizens of the relevant obligations. As an alternative to a voice under the transcript, I can suggest that you make these changes. With a view to remedying the shortcomings of the comments made by the General Legal Directorate on the need to identify the subject of non-compliance reports by the sponsor, please: section I, paragraph 1, which amends the Code of Administrative Offences after the first subparagraph, to complete a new paragraph of the second such content. the second part of the first article.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u102	Please allow the report to be completed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u103	In the first part of article 255, paragraph. One paragraph of the "State Border Service of Ukraine", part two, fourth, fifth, article 85a, article 92a, 185a 3.10, 191a, 204a, 204-2, 205a, 206a. First. And after the numbers "92", add the words and digits "part three of article 185.3" to the new paragraph: "Territorial authorities and territorial units of the central executive authority that implement state policy in the field of migration, migration and migration. including resistance to illegal and illegal migration of citizens with the registration of natural persons." Part Three, article 185. Paragraph 7.1., insert in the following wording: "7.1 "Court of the Court" part one and second of Article 185. 3rd. That's why I think we've actually taken out the legal notice of these amendments. But once again, I stress that this document is a joint work. And I would like to thank Mr. Sidorovich, who was co-chair of the working group. And I think the hall should support these initiatives, because they're not just an IMF requirement, but they really need our citizens to be able to protect our borders and protect our territorial integrity. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor. But we must follow all the amendments that have been rejected. Members of parliament, especially the amendment authors, are requested to prepare for work. And I'm going to count the amendments that were rejected. So 12 amendments. People's deputy Heratchenko. Don't insist. 14th. People's Deputy Levchenko. Please turn on the microphone for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u105	Thank you. There's an amendment, it's written "partially counted." But I insist on taking full account, because it's not really counted there. The point is that first, if a person, already if a decision is made on a person's forced discharge, the only precaution that was possible is detention, not subscription, or warranty, or so forth. If a person is to be evicted outside Ukraine, he should be detained until the moment of hatching rather than simply allowing him to walk on the street. And that is, in fact, particularly in the context of today's growing problem of illegal immigration in Europe. This is the first time. And second of all, my amendment suggests that we rule out what is in this bill. There is a rule that says that if, at the time of the first detention of such a person who can be expelled, a person does not cooperate with regard to the setting up of such a person, in fact, as a legal person, as it is called, where it is from and so forth, it is a reason to ban its forced discharge. Well, it's absurd, because a person will, just-just-just, refuse to report himself, will refuse to cooperate with.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u106	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u107	He will refuse to cooperate with the relevant authorities when establishing a person, and this will be the basis for prohibiting forced discharge, which is absolutely against the logic of the process. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u108	Do you insist on voting on her as a whole? Is there a need to comment from the committee? There's a need. Please turn on Logwinsky's microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u109	I would like to thank Mr. Lewchenk for his good observation. In the meantime, we need to understand that it is not just about so - called criminals, that the perpetrators can be both a child and a pregnant woman and others. That's why the law advocates demanded that there should be no legal possibility of just holding a person in custody. There should be an alternative. For there can really be a reason why a person is entitled to or unlawfully established his illegal residence and has the right to defend himself, and his right should not be violated. That is why, from the experience of international human rights protection, we have taken into account other precautions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u110	Thank you. So we heard the position of both the author of the amendment and the committee. And I'm voting on Amendment 14. Anyone who supports Amendment 14 of the People's Deputies of Lechchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[12:49:46]] For 113 The decision is not made. 16th National Deputy Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 21st National MP, Olena Sotnik. Olena Sotnik does not insist. 22nd, People's Deputy Sotnik. Don't insist. 25th, Captain. Don't insist. 29th, Captain. Don't insist. 30th, Captain. Don't insist. 31st. Don't insist. 33rd. Don't insist. 34th. Don't insist. 35th, Captain. Don't insist. And 36th, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 38th, Dove. Is the Dove insisting? No, it doesn't. 39th, Captain. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 41st, Captain. Don't insist. 42nd, Captain. Don't insist. 43rd, Wesselova. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 44th, Captain. Don't insist. 45th, Lensky. Don't insist. 46th, Captain. Don't insist. 48th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone, Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u111	Thank you. I'd like, first of all, to respond briefly to the last amendment that was broken. The singer responded to only one position. I would say the second position, which was the most important, even more important, I would ask the coalition MPs to look at it, and I understand that in some way my amendments are now being voted on and taken into account in the future. Because you, if you're forbidding to remove a person who just refuses to cooperate with our respective organs, as you suggest, then this whole mechanism doesn't work, it's a little bit meaningless, so count it. This Amendment 48, which we are now considering, relates to the fact that I propose to withdraw the obligation to provide free legal aid to the persons concerned when considering their questions about forced discharge. I think we don't have enough legal aid for Ukrainian citizens who are tormented in our "most humane" courts every day. I don't think we should give funding for illegal emigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u112	Thank you. Is there a need to comment from the committee? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u113	First of all, Mr. Levchenko, I thank you very much again for your reply, and I would like to remind you, first of all, that if a person is not installed, it is not clear where to send him. So we have to act on the logic of time. We need to determine who this person is and where to send him. Otherwise, it's not an effective mechanism. Secondly, please tell me, if we're going to Europe, which protects citizens' rights, that's why it protects against the state's overkill, including the one that exists in our country. I don't have to. We meet international requirements and provide lawyers to protect these citizens so that they will never be used by the person who, for example, is. fights for human rights, and it is used in this way by our law enforcement authorities to send them abroad. That is why we must guarantee every citizen, including a person in Ukraine, adequate legal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u114	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Yes. Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the 48 People’s Deputies of Lehchenka, please vote. Please vote. [[12:54:02]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 53 decree of the People's Deputy Levchenka. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u115	Thank you. Well, first of all, about the presentations by other MPs about the movement to Europe. I don't know about you, but I know, for example, according to the school geography course, that Ukraine is still in Europe. So if you were to say that there's a movement to the European Union or something, it's possible. That's my first so little line. And as for the amendment again, the first one we talked about, I'm going to answer anyway. The point is, if the document goes to the appropriate country, that's enough. Not as you stated that if a person refuses to cooperate with the organs, it is a reason not to fertilize. Do you understand? It is enough for the country to get a document without the cooperation of the person concerned once. About that. This amendment, 53rd, is about that, unfortunately, this bill lays down a mechanism that if a person can't be expelled even though it's recognized that it has to be hatched, but for some reason it can't be drained, it's thought that it's in Ukraine legally at this point. So essentially illegal emigration is legalized. I suggest this one. That's the thing to get out of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u116	Please, Logan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u117	Well, once again, Mr. Levchenko, you certainly think we're in Europe, and certain of our citizens, we don't think we're in the best part of it, do we? I won't give you a word that sometimes impresses me. But I would like to emphasize to you once again that the point is that if a person is not set up, there are no arrangements to send him, that's why he's still in the territory of Ukraine and has some legal status. But once again, this real status doesn't set him any indulgence and purpose of this person, we set a limit on how much can be considered, and in that case, the person should be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u118	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? You insist, don't you? Therefore, who supports amendment 53 of the People’s Deputies of Lehchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[12:56:35]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have just a few changes left. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that there will be an immediate vote to go into the hall and take up jobs. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the hall. 54th Amendment, Irina Heratchenko. Don't insist. 57th, Hero. Don't insist. 58th, Captain. Don't insist. 59th, Logwinsky. Logwinsky does not insist. 62nd, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 63rd, I was walking. Don't insist. You don't insist, do you? Okay. Thank you. 64th, Hero. Don't insist. 66th, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, this way we have gone through all the amendments that were made by the people's deputies. And I'm asking all my fellow national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask you to report that there will be an immediate vote and jobs. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'll give you my offer, and you'll ask me if I think correctly. I'm afraid there may not be enough votes in the room to make a positive decision. So, with your permission, I'm going to conduct the Rules' rating vote to determine how high the potential is in the room. And if the rating vote shows that there are not enough votes in the room, I would recommend that the law be voted on in the section "after discussed". There's a denial of Victor Pinzenic, and there's a denial of Yuri Lewchenk. Mr. Logwinsky, please, one minute. One minute, Logan. Please come into the hall, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u119	First of all, I do think that we can support the question of postponement in case we don't have any votes in the room right now. Because this bill is the result of the work of a large group, the support of the international community. We have no right to interfere and strike our country with what we call European integration. That's why, first of all, I wanted to ask that if the vote were to take into account the changes that were proposed, raised from the voice just by me. But I ask all my colleagues to support this very important and necessary bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u120	Thank you, Your Honor. Thoughts were divided. I just want to say a few important words about it, and please listen carefully to my thoughts. Indeed, according to the Rules there is a continuous consideration of the bill, and it must be considered, either accepted or rejected. At the same time, we are at great risk that a number of important bills, many of them have already been rejected and will continue to be rejected, and at this session will no longer be able to bring them into the agenda. And so I invited the Ukrainian National Deputies to consider changes to the Rules, which envision changes in the form of our work, including the introduction of three plenary weeks, but the vote on Tuesday and Thursday. Until we make these changes, we will be in a similar situation every Wednesday and Friday. So, on the other hand, society, I'm asking you very much to make all the adjustments so that we can start working more quickly and make our work more effective. But while the reform of Parliament is going on, as we reform our agenda, I will sometimes listen to the deputies who will recommend that we do not lose the law, put them in the chapter on "early issues discussed". And that's why I'm voting now. Not for the vote. I am conducting a rating vote to demonstrate the presence of MPs in the hall and to show how capable Parliament is of making decisions. And I ask you to prepare for this vote. Please take part in the rating vote. Please, colleagues, I'm voting. A rating vote on the presence of deputies in the hall. Please take part in this vote. [[13:02:07]] For-188. 188 deputies who can work in the hall. So I'm transferring this bill to the chapter "on the issues discussed earlier." Mr. Victor! Mr. Yuri! I know, and I just said my opinion on that. There's none of that discussion, it's really the norm of the Rules, and now we're going to reject it. And we will never return to him again, Mr. Victor. We won't be able to go back. I'm asking you for a transitional period until we have a new norm, allowing things like this to keep us from losing the bill. I'm asking Pinzenik one minute to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u121	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Well, there's got to be a dictatorship in Parliament sometime. The rule, which is the law, does not allow questions to be asked, decisions to be taken on the issues under discussion. If. You know very well about Wednesday and Friday. There is a Conciliation Council. Why ask important questions if we know that they cannot be handled on Wednesday? But I insist that the law be enforced. No one gave the chairman the right to postpone consideration of the matter, as required by the Law on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, this question is too important, too important. And that's why I suggest we exchange our thoughts for a minute. Because that doesn't make sense, because it's hard to get the MPs in the room any day. That logic requires that we gather and vote that we are unable to make decisions and go to elections. Yeah? So, dear colleagues, I propose a minute from the factions that all the factions in that regard should tell us how we should act in similar situations. I ask by raising my hands so that each faction and group can say how to act. Please, Papiev first, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u123	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! You know, there is such a simple principle when we speak in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the chairman tells us about the reform of the Rules, before we start reforming the Rules, let us show an example of compliance. Insolent and very numerous violations of the Rules occur daily. For example, yesterday when the Law of Ukraine was voted 4469. You know, he didn't make it through the first reading, he didn't make it back. The chairman of the 107th article of the Rules was to say that the bill was rejected and could not be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration during the current session. That is to say, Mr. Chairman, one day he dared to violate the Rules, and the other day he could not be called upon to comply with it. I would very much like to take into account that the Law on Rules is the law! And no one is given the right to violate it and to divide the laws on an essential and nonessential basis. All laws are essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u124	Thank you. Since I've had an appeal, with your permission, I'll respond. When you speak boldly and brutally, it's obviously a more political assessment. Regarding yesterday's vote. I want to answer the call that came to me. And I want to emphasize. Yesterday, according to the regulations, I put in place a bill that was designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent for inclusion in the agenda and for decision-making. Then, according to the regulations, we discussed the bill. And everyone in the room was able to take part in the vote. Then, according to the regulations, I made a proposal to vote it as a basis. He didn't get the required number of votes. And today I've commissioned him to be listed on the Supreme Council website as a rejected bill. And when you use the word "grossly" all the time, I very much ask you to have respect for both yourself and me. Because yesterday there was no violation of any of the Rules. There was no disturbance yesterday. And the speculation on this subject is that I ask you to take and be objective, as I try to be objective to every MP in the room, to every MP in the room. Next question. Dear colleagues! Of course, I fully agree with the fact that we have to follow the Rules until we do. But we have the danger of stopping Parliament. And we need to look for a problem and a reason not in the head but in the presence of deputies in the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to be clear about where the problem begins today. And it begins with a lot of national deputies promising to work themselves, and then they're just not in the hall. And once again, in this room, most of the people's deputies are active, active people's deputies. Sadly, though, there is a category that simply does not attend meetings. The question of the organization of the work of deputies is factions. And so I ask you very much to raise these questions, not to the presiding officer, but to the factions, to work on discipline, to work on having enough votes in the room to make decisions. Thank you. Next from the Radical Party and then from the BP. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u125	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction is disciplined, is responsible in Parliament on the second day, blocking the parliamentary rostrum. We ask those of you who have fun, those who don't know how Ukrainian citizens live, we demand that you meet the demands of millions of Ukrainian people -- to lower the price of gas at least twice the price of what it is; to investigate the corruption of the highest authorities, why the whole world is surprised. Today, President Poroshenko did not go to an anti-corruption forum in London, citing home affairs to be more important. Of course, why go there? Although it would take both Poshenko and Nazbank's head and the minister of finance to go and share his experience of not paying taxes like offshore companies to register how to rob their own state and their own citizens. We're asking you to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u126	From Peter Dustenk's Block. I just wanted to remind you, I asked that we consult on how to deal with situations like this. Oleg Valeriyovich didn't hear, and I'm going to make this more explicit the second time. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u127	Andry Volodymyrovich, your honor, I think we'll have time, including in the light of what you've been talking about, to make some changes to the Rules. Although, as far as I'm concerned, we'd like to think about what we might have started with what the Rules have tried to bring to the Constitution first and then move on to procedural matters. It might be easier for us to live, including in Parliament. But I think we need to think conceptually about what should be adopted and how many Ukrainian parliaments. Because the Ukrainian Parliament, dear friends, is a record for the adoption of laws in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, and we accept them for thousands of years. When statistics, for example, in European countries are tens of thousands, and most of them in individual countries, there are hundreds of laws that are impenetrable in a year. And the left-hand side of Parliamentary work is work on the bill committee and coming to a common perspective if there are alternative positions on many drafts. Then it's easier to have them here. And then maybe we need fewer sessions and more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u128	Please finish for one more minute or 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u129	And we should, Andriy Volodymyrovich, put into session only those bills that are really important and that are consensus until they are passed. Then we will not need many sessions and much time for both discussion and acceptance. And if we don't understand what's going on with the bill, what's inside it, and what's its perspective, but still it's in order of the day, we're always going to have these problems. It's a key question, and everything else is derivative, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u130	Thank you. The only thing I want to say to you, Ruslan, is that we have many bills that all factions support, and there is no effective vote. I mean, if there's a general agreement. So I'm still in factions. Please, Logan, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, dear friends! I would like to respond to some calls. Mr. Knyazevich, if you please. A working group worked on the project for several weeks, we held five or six joint meetings, and we took all the amendments and all of them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u132	I'm sorry. I'm stopping the show. Mr. Ruslan, when you were performing, everyone was sitting there listening very nicely to your deep thoughts. Have the same respect for other deputies. Please continue the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u133	By the way, Mr. Ruslan, I would like to point out that it was this project that was being worked on by a joint working group from the judicial branch of power, from the executive branch of power, from the deputies, from the lawyers, and we were able to find consensus, and this bill is supported by all the factions, everyone voted. Only the problem is that MPs don't want to come into the hall and do something for themselves. Let us examine: What determines the problem that this bill solves? A lot of people. (I'm asking you to give me a chance to finish.) Many made money for taking bribes from these illegals, then keeping them in Ukraine, and legalizing them. We've been shown this problem, we've corrected it, we said, please, if he doesn't want to do Ukrainian legislation, we're sending him abroad. So we need to create a mechanism to do this? Is that why we're here? Maybe someone doesn't want to vote because they're in some kind of fate? Then I get it. But otherwise, no legal comments, no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u134	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u135	when we must protect our nation, our borders, when we must work with the international community and close our own holes. That's why I don't see any reason, except that either someone doesn't want to vote or they don't want to vote because they don't want to work and they don't want to build our state, that's the only goal that can exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u137	Sobolje, Fatherland. Undoubtedly, this is a very important bill that allows for the resolution of issues in accordance with European Union standards. But I would like, colleagues, to ask you that no less important bills, on which, by the way, we stopped yesterday, which are equally introduced on behalf of the government, and on behalf of the National Deputies, by the way, and our faction has also registered, and it's included in the agenda, it's a bill on the withdrawal of pension taxes. On what basis was this question not brought to the fore today? I'm sure after that vote, we'd look into the eyes of those deputies who didn't cancel pension taxes. Unfortunately, we have a selective approach to matters that are important and not important. That's why there's a Rules, and it says that the agenda continues, so please follow the Rules. And for this bill, the "Fatherland" faction voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u138	Thank you. There'll be a bill on pension taxes tomorrow, it's on Thursday, I think there's a general agreement that he'll be standing on Thursday. Yuri Lewchenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u139	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 District, Kiev City. I am now addressing both the presiding officer and all the deputies who are here. You know, when you talk about how to work and accept important bills or actually go to work, I think the answer is not that you have to change the Rules, even though there are some questions there, some nuances. I think there is a question of keeping the Rules, I'll explain what I mean to the chairman. If several times because of compliance with the Rules, especially you, I am here for objectivity, I must always be objective, and I must point out that you are the new chairman of the session, in my opinion, much closer to the Rules than Vladimir Groissman did. So if several times the chairman insists that the Rules will be followed and so perhaps even important bills will be failed, then MPs will have to go to work because their voters will tell them why you do not go to work and fail such bills important? On the other hand, if we always give such favors and later, later, nothing will ever work, nor with the new Rules, nor will we.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u140	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u141	Instead, if we keep giving this kind of relief and say that later, now we're going to make an exception, then we're going to make the exception again, then we're going to make the exception again, the exceptions will always be. Exceptions become a rule and this will continue to be endless, independent of what we will prescribe in the new Rules or in any other way under the new Rules. If the law makes exceptions, then this law doesn't apply -- it's actually not just the Supreme Council's problem, it's the whole country's problem. Instead of setting an example for the rest of the country, the Supreme Council sets a negative example for the rest of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u142	Thank you. I just want to point you out because there are references to me and I have to say that I think the Rules matter too. Because if on Friday, as I have repeatedly stressed, we have an hour of questions to the government, then half an hour of questions, then half an hour of bills, and then "different." At that half hour, it is never possible to concentrate. Obviously, the organization of Parliament's work is important, Mr. Yuri, and you obviously have to agree that we should enter into a more effective norm and that the proposed one is three plenary weeks, Tuesday and Thursday. I'm sure this will help us, but it will only help us in part, because what I fully agree with is that the whole country is watching and the whole country is going to work in the morning, where it gets paid and in this country is completely incomprehensible, incomprehensible, incomprehensible! – how the Ukrainian national deputy does not come to work like the whole country, how a soldier comes to the front of his battleship, how a miner comes to the mine, how a teacher comes to school. No one can understand that. And that's why there's such a huge problem of trust in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But, Mr. Yuri, you have to understand me, and we can't stop Parliament, just stop it, and that's why I'm trying to compromise. I want to remind you that I only put once on my return, and this is a normal practice, as provided for in the Rules. We put it in the Rules once, I put it once, if there's no huge number of drafts, it's already been rejected. A large number was rejected. And that's why the charges against him are conditional. Colleagues, this is a discussion, Mr. Yuri. I don't blame you. I'm just explaining. Are they still willing to speak on that occasion? Please, Solovay, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u143	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I have spoken on many occasions on the subject of compliance with the Rules and the observance of my duties by the people’s deputies. But it must be understood that until there is the responsibility of the national deputy for not applying for work, we will have a semiarid hall by then. Yesterday. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, yesterday you signed, I read, yesterday you signed absolutely literacy orders for non-registration and not for registration. I suggested that I take off the salary on a number of occasions for not voting on a national MP for a bill, lowering wages, lowering the MP's trust fund to exercise MP's powers, and so on. This is a normal phenomenon. You ask the question: Why do people walk in a simple way that MPs don't walk? Because national MPs have no responsibility for failing to exercise their powers, and I recommend that my orders are to introduce financial responsibility for not voting for either.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u144	Thank you. I really signed up for an order that worked before I paid the national deputy's dues on the day he was gone, and I didn't register. But I can only act under the law. You go to Ruslan Knazevitch, talk to him, and he'll explain to you, and I can only act under the law. Dear colleagues, and I would like to emphasize to you the important thing, is that I will introduce these disciplinary actions that are provided for by law. But I'm sure they'll never be definitive until there's a deep understanding among the MPs until there's a lot of social pressure on those national MPs who don't walk. So I urge everyone very much to take an active position so that we can all be allies in the group on this issue, so that it doesn't look like there's only a MP in Paris. And these standards, which are prescribed by law, I'm going to introduce and introduce everything that's up to me. Now, please, it's the last time I've seen Self-Help. The Coast, Self-Help, Yegor, and we will conclude the discussion. Please, Borislav Bereza. Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u145	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Speaker, look, there are more than 300 deputies registered in this room right now, but you say you will only fine those who are not in this room. So who are you going to fine, those who aren't there or you who are registered now? Look, there are 300 votes in the room, it's on registration. In fact, we don't actually see here and the 150s, you know, it's propaganda, it's first. Secondly, it's because a very large number of deputies don't walk around, that they know that there's going to be a card fight for them, that they're going to put cards in for them, and they're going to be registered, and they're already working today. And you say you're going to fine them. So it's still going to be this practice, this is buttoning, this is bad practice when you insert cards, you have to fight it. And if that doesn't happen, all the changes in the Rules won't lead to anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u146	Let us fight together, and the changes to the Rules will help. Sorry, Fatherland already had a word. There's not a word for "self-help" yet, it's Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u147	We have the next position on the speaker. I'm sure it will work if you announce every morning how every political force has voted the day before. If all the voters, if all those who watch "The Council" TV will not be in general, there, the MPs don't work, but who works specifically, and who doesn't work specifically, know. We are confident that this will immediately increase the responsibility of parliamentarians. You know, Self-Help went to the "take and do" election. We regularly consider in the middle of a faction, which is the percentage of the vote in each deputy. And today, for example, more than 80 percent of the votes were cast by all the MPs from Self-Help. This is the first indicator in Parliament, it works. Let's not say in general, "Parliament's bad." Let's call specific political forces that don't vote, and every month.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u148	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u149	and publish a monthly list of walkers in parliamentary editions, starting with Voice of Ukraine. We're doing this regularly at the Anti-Corruption Committee: we're reporting on the "Honestly" walkers, the "Openly" initiative. And, I mean, there wasn't another week of committee work if we didn't get together and work. Let us go to the personal responsibility of parliamentarians and to the political responsibility of the political forces where these parliamentarians enter but do not work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u150	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. I just want to remind you that all the data on every bill is on the Supreme Council website, it's open in fact. And I'll take you up on your offer. Vladimir Parasuk, one minute. And then we finish, society, we finish. Parachutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u151	Mr. Head, I have such a proposition about the Supreme Council website, if we're already discussing our work. First of all, I don't understand where the total number of legislative initiatives on the National MP's personal page went. I'd like, if I may, an order to return. Because both journalists and people in general find it difficult to count how active or not the MPs are. Another situation. There's a double registration on the Supreme Council site. Well, I don't understand this system. If we register, we do one: either in writing or in electronic. It just doesn't give us any clarity in our work. I think it's only necessary to leave a written registration, because the electronic registration, you know how it happens, you came in, you blew up the cards and there were 300 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u152	I'll consider this proposal. And with regard to the number of bills, Mr. Vladimir, I'm explaining to you that this is one of the requirements of cox cooperation in order to avoid a legislative state. It was an initiative that actually, I'm going to convince you that it was the right thing to do. I'm not gonna be on the Supreme Council talking right now, we're gonna meet separately, we're gonna talk about it. So Irina Heratchenko. Turn on the microphone. And I will announce my decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, please join this important debate on how to improve the work of Parliament. I'm joining the minds of those colleagues who think that committee work is actually going to be activated today. And so it is very important that this proposal by the committee heads regarding the fact that the Conciliation Board also has to lose its political position and start by discussing the agenda so that we can only submit to the session those bills that receive the appropriate number of votes that have gone through all the necessary regulatory procedures. She makes a lot of sense to me. And I also want to encourage my colleagues to go to work. And I fully support the offer of all colleagues who believe that our esteemed Head of the Supreme Council has on the Supreme Council's website every day to present the names of those MPs who are walkers. And as we see now, entire parliamentary groups that are not available in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-11-m0.u154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, under the Rules, I have put a question on the ratings vote to show potential in the hall. It demonstrated that there are not enough deputies in the hall to continue our work. That's why I'm addressing and I promise that this number of MPs present in this room will be publicized, it'll be published on the Supreme Council site -- those MPs that actually are. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've just voted. We ran a rating vote. The results of that vote will be reflected, and once again, they will be reflected on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, given that there are not enough votes in the room to make decisions, I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I call on all the deputies to be in the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye. We're meeting in the hall at 10 a.m.
