ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Ten o'clock. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please. Colleagues, in a minute, we're going to have to sign up. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that the job is about to begin. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration and please register. Please register. [[10:02:54]] 336 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Valeriyovich Drozdik. We welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] Welcome. My colleagues, I would like to report that an hour ago a meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Council of Ukraine-NATO began. This is an important event for Ukraine. I had the privilege of opening this event. And I am convinced that for Ukraine, in a time of Russian aggression, joining NATO is a strategic direction for our development. And this direction has no other alternative. I stressed that for us the decision of the Bucharest summit on Ukraine's accession to NATO remains valid and I told them that we are all, the whole Parliament is convinced that Ukraine will be a NATO member. Let it be a matter of time, but this question for Ukraine is fundamental not only to the humanitarian dimension but also to the strategic and geopolitical dimensions. Dear colleagues, on Tuesday under the Rules, we begin with 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements and reports. And I'm asking the factions and groups to prepare for the recording. And please record the performance. Please, colleagues. Victor Bondar from the Rebirth Party. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich and distinguished colleagues! Surely this week was filled with information events. A number of events have been done very well to distract the population from the main real economic things that are happening in the country today. The government has been very supportive and well-organizing a gay parade in Kiev, and everyone seemed to like it, made a lot of noise. But I don't know what the benefits of that parade are for 99 percent of the people in Ukraine who live real life and who are concerned about real normal relationships in families and real wealth in families. At the same time, we're completely cynical about what we're reading in the State Department, as the population debt for housing services has literally increased in a month. We can see that today, according to the Statekombt data, there has been a 3.1-fold increase in public debt -- 13.4 billion dollars -- in just one month. It would seem that there would be a power reaction: a gay parade or an emergency crisis and the ability of the population to come out of this crisis? No, the authorities are taking the next step: making decisions and raising heating and hot water tariffs -- once again two times from July 1st. The question is, do people, do more money, do more pensions, do more wages, do more economics, or what happens? "The Rebirth Party" warned 3 months ago, 2 months ago, a month ago that there was a huge problem, that subsidies for the population to cover tariffs would be enough literally for six months. The 35 billion budgeted had already ended and by the end of the year it was necessary to find an additional 24 billion dollars at existing tariffs. Did someone do something? No, it's not. We just decided to pick up the tariffs. This is going to increase population debt for housing services, that's not going to solve the issue. The only way to solve the issue is by increasing the economy, by starting production, by filling the budget, by unlocking the accounts of Energoatom and making powerful orders for Ukrainian production for Energoatom, by ordering transport, through infrastructure projects, by building factories, that would give pay, pensions, and then allow the population to pay the tariffs. What are you doing? Stop. The Rebirth Party has been proposing for six months to support our bill and introduce a moratorium on tariff increases by 2018. And all those who don't support this proposal of the Rebirth Party, we think it's just demogogia that doesn't want to stop this crazy population experiment in Ukraine. Therefore, we ask that our order be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u3	Thank you. People's Front, Victoria Petrovna Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you about our Committee's outgoing meeting on freedom of speech in the area of anti-terrorist operation. I know that many of you are there, and many are even fighting there, but we wanted to solve our profile issues. You know that the entire 30-kilometre ATO area is covered today by Russian television channels and there are no Ukrainian signals. What does that mean in practice? We walked in on people and asked if people in the ATO zone knew who was at war with whom, and who was shooting them? Do you know what we were told? We were told it must be Idar fighting with the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Do you know why they think that? Because that's what Russia 24 shows them, because there's no other Ukrainian signal. But there are Ukrainian patriots, there are village leaders who know how to get out of the situation? They are in the middle of a village where bazaars put loudspeakers like during World War II. You can imagine, this is Mendelson's voice, something was reported on the front, something similar is happening today when there's Ukrainian music. We're today. We met with radio station managers yesterday, with channel managers, they're going to give Ukrainian content, we're going to try to get the cable there, and we're going to make sure there's a Ukrainian signal. But I have a question, colleagues, with us, and what are we doing here for these people who are getting shot every day? Do you know that it was only tonight that 40 times our military were fired there from mortars and artillery? Colleagues, what did you all do tonight, tell me? Did you sleep well? And they were subjected to artillery shelling 40 times. What are they doing this morning? Today, they stand on the roadblocks and follow the orders of their leaders, risking their lives. What are you doing? You walk around the hall, you don't listen to anybody, you don't hear each other! That's not how wars win, there's a war going on, and you and I are dealing with warriors, who are more beautiful than each other. There are men who think about how they can keep the Audio and the polygon that was conquered there. And you're thinking about how to go to Paris for football on Thursday! So the People's Front faction that has always demonstrated discipline in this room today will vote for the laws that we need in cooperation with.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u5	Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u6	to support the Prime Minister, who today advocates Ukraine's interests in the United States in order to support Ukraine. But we're still demanding, and it's our strict request to fund the defense order. You know very well, in the defense budget, it's only possible to finance the money we've set up from the payback of Yanukovich. But it's because there are a lot of people in this room who want to return the money to Viktor Fedorovich, not to put it in the army, that's not what's happening, and that's not the law that's being passed. This law, to which there were many claims, was repealed. He'll be registered today. Then we have three days. And, please, in three days, the entire ranges stand up and the entire villages are being rebuilt, and we can make law in three days. And on Thursday, Wednesday, all proposals are made on the committee, and on Thursday, vote. It's hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Please, Radical Party Light. 15 seconds. I've already given you twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u8	You gave it to me once. This is the bullet that a soldier gave me there that was pulled out of his body, and it didn't miraculously break. Colleagues, if we don't fund a defense order, he won't have a Ukrainian bullet so he can save his life. Do it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. We support your position on the defense order. Please, leader of the Radical Party Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Since July 1st, the National Commission on the regulation of the utility market has raised the cost of water, heating, utilities for millions of Ukrainian citizens. What does the Ukrainian Parliament do to protect people? It is clear that the vast majority of Ukrainians will not be able to pay for these services. Let's look at today's Supreme Council agenda: there's no bill to solve the problem of municipal tariffs. Last week, the European Parliament voted and created an investigation commission to investigate an offshore scandal, investigating high-level corruption. What the Ukrainian authorities are doing is doing what the Ukrainian Parliament is doing to investigate the offshore and corruption of the President of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the President's business and senior officials of the state. Nothing. The president says, "No problem." The Attorney General, the President's godfather, says that an offshore scandal is a soap bubble. The whole world is being investigated, and there are no problems for our offshore highlanders. They place billions offshore, they don't pay taxes, and millions of Ukrainian citizens raise tariffs to cover budget holes to pay for corruption. Can we keep our mouths shut? No! No! That is why the Radical Party faction has decided to continue to block the parliamentary rostrum with two demands: the first is the creation of an investigation commission to investigate corruption and the Office of the President and senior officials of the State; the second is the cancellation of the decision of the NCREKP to increase three tariffs for. for public services for citizens, annulment of the government's decision. And to return to the Ukrainians the price of gas when they were able to consume 1200 cubes in the heating season and pay 3.60 per cube, not 7,000 dollars per thousand cubes. I also inform you that today we are calling on the court to cancel the decision to increase tariffs. I'm addressing our colleagues from the Fatherland faction and Self-Help in the democratic opposition, in unity, our strength. Let us unite our efforts, let us block the rostrum together, and let us preside over Parliament to make a decision in the interests of the Ukrainians. All right, enough of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u11	Thank you. Please welcome to the floor the People's Deubenkov People's Deputies from the Opposition Block. Opposition Block, People's Deputies. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Alexander Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u13	Please turn on Alexander Vilukulu's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainian people! The government continues to be a real genocide for both our country and our people. Yes, since May 1, gas tariffs have been raised by 90 percent, with an increase of more than 8 times over the last 2 years. On June 7, the authorities made another disgraceful decision: twice the price of heat and twice the price of water has been raised, and this has already been announced. And this happens at frozen wages, pensions, space prices, astronomical prices, medicine, food. People can't survive like this anymore. The opposition block for the last two and a half years is the only party that's systematically fighting this. I'm not going to count all our bills, I'm just going to stop by Bill 2342 on establishing a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for housing services, which was introduced in March 2015. Dear colleagues who want to go to trial now, we'll support you by 100 percent, but what we're saying is that we brought you to trial again on October 20, 2015, when you were in the coalition. And today, the Kyiv District Administrative Court has started this case, but it's completely blocked by power, the authorities are putting pressure on the courts, the factions in control don't bring our bills into the hall and completely block it. Everyone knows that in Ukraine enough gas of their own to meet the needs of the population, while the cost of our gas is one and a half thousand dollars, it is sold to people of 6,000. Where's the money going? Money goes to corruption. Come and talk to the people. People ask you in power and you, the pro-dominant MPs, "Is it already Europe in your imagination, or is it going to be even worse? Or for you, Europe, it's just astronomical utility tariffs and gay parades, not the rule of law, worthy of pay and worthy of pensions." People who have been deprived of their benefits do not pay their wages, but there are three ways to leave the country, to die in cold apartments from hunger, or to endure that power. Dear colleagues, say you're not afraid? In autumn, people will come out not only against tariffs but also against that authority. "The opposition block" has always been, is, and will be on the side of people. And only with the support of the people, the people of Ukraine, will we be able to stop this genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. But I ask you not to be afraid of the people, for the people have once come out and shown their attitude toward those who ruled the country, plundered it, and destroyed it. [[Applause]] Nor do you tell us about the fear of the people. I see I've only been out for five minutes. The rostrum's already blocked. Hopefully not for long. Now, the word is given to the representative of the Pied Piper Block of Fishbrake, Mr. Rybak. He'll come out of the place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, on May 31, this year, a meeting was held by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. At this meeting, a decision was made to hold a June 6 working group to the city of Lviv on the issue of the Gribowitz garbage dump. What has been revealed as a result of the work of our working group? As a result, the working group found the following. There's absolutely no permit papers for any work in the garbage disposal area. For the past 10 years, no environmental inspections have been carried out in the area in connection with the failure of environmental inspectors to do so, despite the fact that a number of courts have been won, but there has been sabotage in the enterprise. We must study this bitter experience of the city of Lviv with you and not allow in the future any more such things at any dump site on any solid household waste site in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the "Peter Prashenka Block" is offering its site to bring together all co-authors of all the bills of solid waste management, but still using today's negative, I want to remind you that the situation has been brought together and done for Ukraine's future environment, for Ukraine's future perspective and worthy of dealing with solid waste. Also, honourable colleagues, I would like to remind you that there is a bill 4723 registered in the Supreme Council, the draft Act amending Appendix No.3 to the Ukrainian Act on the Government Budget for Ukraine for the 16th Year, on the expenditure of the Ministry on temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons. The bill can address the issue of pay to employees of the relevant Ministry. Because I'm reminded that not so long ago, you and I here, honorary colleagues, have created an appropriate ministry to care for temporarily displaced persons and temporarily occupied territories. To date, these people have been working for more than three months and have not received a single penny of wages. Dear colleagues, let's implement Bill 4723 and solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u17	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u18	I give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u19	Colleagues! This week, we are invited to appoint 800 judges who have been appointed President Yushchenk and President Yanukovich for an indefinite term, forever. Among these judges are the judges who imprisoned the courtmen. Among these judges is Maksim Kitsuk, who is charged with a criminal offence, and we have agreed here in Parliament to bring him to criminal responsibility. Now we are asked to make judges untimely, such as Maxim. The Self-Help faction suggests that every judge should stand before Parliament separately so that we, in journalists, have time to study each candidate in the public. Interestingly, there are judges who do not need to be appointed by the flock for such a procedure. We want to be before Parliament, we want to speak and we want to answer your questions. It's very important for us to move away from Janukovich's practice of assigning judges to a great crowd without considering the arrangements that the oligarchs made and made, and to actually question, learn and make decisions on each judge. The second decision that Self-Help proposes to take with the same responsible approach is the Central Election Commission. You know, we've been asking the President for months to get him to finally file for the release of Hendowski and his team. And it was very good at last that this presentation had come to light. Self-help is ready to vote for him now. But we honestly don't know the absolute majority of the new candidates for the Central Election Commission that the President has proposed. We don't really know, we don't know where these people came from, their biographies don't speak very much. Since the members of the CTC will face similar pressures, with bribery, with the need to stop it, we ask the President's representative to arrange a meeting with the factions so that we can learn about each candidate and make the same decision for each candidate. And finally, Mr. Speaker, we talked about this a lot on the Conciliation Council yesterday, a illustration. We need to make an agreement with the Venice Commission, we need to extend the illustration to the judges of the Constitutional Court, to the candidates of the people's deputies, to the presidential candidates, let's start adopting this decision this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u20	Thank you. With your permission, I'll explain some of the lines. The bill is now included in the agenda of the day session by amendments to the Illustration Act. It depends on our political will so that on Wednesday we can go to the committee on Thursday. According to the members of the CBC. Colleagues, I ask all factions and also the President's representative in Parliament to organize meetings of all members of the CFC candidates with factions. And by the judges. We had a long conversation with the committee manager yesterday. And since there are too many questions from the judges, we agreed that the next plenary Tuesday is likely to be the day after the judges, where all these questions will be considered. It's so much earlier that they're focused on the questions that you've been talking about. Thank you very much. And the word is from "the will of the people" Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u21	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! I want to mention the events of the 20th century. It was today that the city of Happiness was liberated. And at least four people have. The 4 national deputies have a bearing on this, sitting in this room. Today, the city of Happiness was hailed, asked to reap the hand of those who took part in those fights. But I don't want to do that, and I want to go to those colleagues who said today that Idar is fighting with the Armed Forces of Ukraine. So I want to mention how one edition called "The Patriots of Ukraine," the same morning that our colleague was captured, they said that they had voluntarily gone into attack. I want to mention how "Espreso" sucks the same battalion "Idar." I want to mention how ours, and I'm getting closer to our national MPs, who are coming to the various international missions that are coming to Ukraine, they're going to go to them, not to mention that these international organizations are made up of Russian mercenaries who are encrypted under the emissaries of these missions. And one last thing I want to say. That while we were doing our duty to protect the country, some forces enjoyed it there. And now they're enjoying Parliament by blocking the rostrum and destabilizing the situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Indeed, yesterday was the anniversary of Mariupol’s release, and this was an important event that was marked. Today is the anniversary of the release of happiness, and we often mention these defeats that we had, but these are the days of our victories -- the victory of the Ukrainian offensive. When we went on a counterattack. And let's really, together welcome all those military, including those who are in the hall and who are 2 years ago in the Ukrainian offensive that freed Mariupol and freed happiness. Welcome, Ukrainian fighters! Welcome! Let's hear it! [[Applause]] Have all the factions and groups already made their appearance? Everyone. From "The Fatherland" the word is given to Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u23	I am now addressing the Ukrainians who are now listening to us. You know, most of the factions that just had a word were talking about a totally unreasonable, brutal, arbitrary increase in tariffs. At this time, there's just a market in the Supreme Council room, everyone's busy with their own affairs: someone's setting up a lobby, they're poisoning each other, nobody even has a conscience to listen to the statements of all the faction leaders who were talking about raising unwarranted tariffs. On June 7, such an increase took place: the tariff almost doubled for heat and doubled for hot water, made by a puppet from the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, which orders the state's superiors. On the other hand, this was preceded by a totally illegal decision by Mr. Groissmann, who doubled the price of gas for the population's income categories – the PP in the country. You realize that today our citizens, who have 16-24 times lower pensions and wages than in Europe and the United States, have been imposed on them today by tariffs, which are either the same as in these developed countries or even higher. For comparison. In countries that produce their own gas, for example, in Kazakhstan, 82 dollars of gas is spent for the population and investment programs are put in place, almost 200 percent of the profits are made there, and Ukrainian gas is sold to Ukrainians from the moment Yacenuk and Groisman made the decision, $285 per thousand cubic metres. Who will be responsible for this haughtiness? And that's why I'm addressing you right now, Mr. Paris, Head of the Supreme Council, you have four documents to take immediately from the Supreme Council. The first is a draft decree by the leaders of all opposition factions to set up a Temporary Investigation Commission to test the validity of the increase in housing and utilities tariffs. In addition, these are three bills: the first foresees that Ukrainian gas must be given to the Ukrainians with limited profitability; the second is a bill to lower the rent for the state-owned gas company and the third is to set tariffs transparently. All four draft documents are not submitted to your agenda. Yesterday you said they didn't pass the committee. And I want to tell you that this is on your side.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u24	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u25	On your part, Mr. Paris, this is an unfair and counter-regulatory action. Because you've put 14 bills in the agenda today where there are no committee conclusions on the Supreme Council website. And that means you're lobbying for the People's Front and the WFP, putting in the agenda without committee decisions, and what people need, you think you don't need to bet. So right now, I'm asking you personally to have four bills and one decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u26	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u27	were immediately placed in the agenda to be considered, accepted, and stopped the mistreatment of the people at an unwarranted increase in tariffs. And the committee's decision is blocked by the People's Front and the BP. The year is billed and not accepted. Stop this regulatory homage and such an attitude toward people!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that yesterday's head. The chairman of the regulatory committee, Pinzenic, explained this. In the interim commission of inquiry, which is recommended for us to accept, it was indeed rejected and submitted by the committee for further work. To make you aware, there are members of the interim commission of inquiry who are invited to choose Igor Nasalik, who is not even Ukraine's national deputy today. I've just asked you to be properly prepared for help. Today, Parliament cannot vote in favour of including a minister in a parliamentary commission, since he lost his parliamentary mandate by becoming a minister. So I have a great request to listen to the committee's recommendations, to prepare competent, correct bills, and I confirm that all the proposals that go will be included in the agenda of the day session. Moreover, according to the law, I have been given a clear explanation, our legal department, if the bill is not considered by the committee for 30 days, the subject of the legislative initiative has to write to the Head of the Supreme Council within 15 days, and I promise as Head of the Supreme Council that, according to all the references made by the legislators, I will put in the chapter of inclusion in the agenda of the day session all those decisions that were not supported by the committee. I didn't go to anyone in the room, I didn't go to anyone in the room, so there's no reason for a lineup. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Timoshenko's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u29	Dear friends! To be honest with you, I haven't seen such a humiliation in this room in at least the last few years. The settler was included a year ago when he was still a national deputy and this objection you just said does not prevent the committee from considering that Nasalik had become a minister in a year and that he was expelled from the temporary commission or changed to another. Today, we cannot compromise the decision to set up a temporary commission of inquiry on tariffs by saying that Nasalik had become a minister. We were preparing a year ago, Pinzenik, a member of the People's Front, and he's not looking at it. And now you're saying it's unprofessional?Oh, my God! You take care of yourself first and then make a note!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u30	A fish's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u31	Dear Ukrainian people, honourable deputies! For two years, Ukraine has waged a country war, a war that takes people's lives, that exhausts the economy that destroys dreams and makes it impossible to plan for any foreseeable future. We can do this hybrid-separate war as much as we call it ATO, but the descendants in the textbooks will write that it was a Russian-Ukrainian war for our real, not declared in 1991, independence. Gentlemen, freedom and independence are very expensive, I would say very expensive things. What seemed to us to be free in 1991 was, in fact in 2016, that we had thousands of human lives, tens of thousands of disabled people, and hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who need to be adapted to normal life today. What does it mean, gentlemen, to live a normal life? This is the highest level of corruption in Europe, these are crazy prices, and as a result, the poverty of the people is treason.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u32	Please turn on one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u33	It's the enrichment of some of the authorities in the war and the Separatists' children in Kiev's restaurants. This is what it means. How do you say you adapt 200,000 ATO fighters to this "normal" life, tell me? You know what psychologists tell our boys? They say, "Tell me, how do you feel?" And they say, "Disappointment." The heroes of war are disappointed because they fought for a little different peace than they were in. I would very much like this plenary week to be dedicated to at least a little bit of life, health, and other things for you and me to be able to work on red chairs here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u34	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, all factions and groups speaking? Everyone. We can move on to the day - to - day issues. The first is the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House. The bill is small, but very important for reforming, and there is a proposal from the committee and from the authors to consider it in a simplified way. Is such a proposal supported? So, colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues. Now I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Can we vote? So I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Law on Amendments to Article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Realization of Property in a Multi-Apartment House (No. 4680) under a shortened procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:41:55]] For 135 Colleagues, I'm going to put a motion for a vote again. If we have the will, we will consider the full procedure, there is no objection. But it would just be weird to convince me that there aren't enough laws. So please think about it and make your decision again. I'll put it to the vote again. Colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So once again, I'm going to put the 4680 proposal into a simplified procedure. Please vote, colleagues. 4680 – short procedure. [[10:43:00]] For-144 I see there's a strong conviction in the room that there's a full procedure. Let us begin consideration of the full procedure. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Babak Alona Valériyovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u35	I'm ready. Dear National MPs, "economics" is a word from ancient Greek meaning "ecos" is a house, a farm and a "nomos" is a law, a law of tenure, a law of house management. This Parliament can be proud that it has adopted the second most economic law in the history of Ukraine – the law of house management, management of its property by its owners. The first law was, of course, the Act on Privatization of the State Housing Fund. During this year of perception, over a year of adoption of the Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in Multi-Apartment Houses, Ukraine has seen more than 20 percent of co-owners' mergers, more than 2,000 associations created in this year, in the first quarter of the 16th year alone, more than 1,000 associations, i.e. the number increases with each day. The Ukrainians confirm their desire to be masters in their country because economic development begins with the household, the host, and his home. At the same time, we need to be overly optimistic about each building’s transformation, for 100 years Ukrainians have been destroying their sense of farming. And that's why today, as members of the committee of profile, we call on Parliament not to delay the implementation of the law. From July 1, competitions were held in buildings where people had not yet chosen their managers or formed a union. But at the time of this competition, local self - government authorities will continue to serve existing JECKs. That is the essence of the law that is being proposed today. So not to tolerate any reform in any way, but for the duration of the contests we expect the Kabin to give us a typical agreement in the 20s of June, the local government will announce these competitions on July 1. And for this period, so as not to create chaos in the buildings, so that the elevators will be serviced, so that the trash will be exported, so that they can continue to serve Jackie for this period. The second important money in this bill. The End Positions gives owners the right to terminate the contract at any time with the manager assigned to the competition if they create their own manager or form a joint owner. It will only take two months for the governor to be selected for the competition to inform him of such a decision. So we're giving all the opportunities for reform to move to strengthen the owner and owner's institution in Ukraine. And that is why we believe that today, in order not to curb reform, to create chaos, to adopt this bill as a foundation and as a whole. We think that this is absolutely not a political bill, but an extremely important bill for every Ukrainian. So we ask your support today, to vote for it as a basis and as a whole, because there will be no more time to vote. He's prepared, he's worked by a committee. That's why we're waiting for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u36	Thank you. Now we have three minutes on the question-answer to the reporter. And please sign up for a question-answer, please. Bereza Borislav. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u37	It's a very important issue of deferral really in the process of this bill. But I have one question: is there a bill in this bill that I want to have the answer right now for all Ukrainians to hear this answer, so it's very important that there are any words in this bill about the capital repairs that the whole system in Ukraine needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u38	This is not in this law because it is in the 1992 law, which is valid and it is called the privatization of the State Housing Fund, article 10, paragraph 7. Prior to privatization, the owner participates in the co-financing of the first after the privatisation of the capital repair. This is the norm in force today. So there was no need to duplicate it in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u39	Swelling Grigory Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u40	Please give the word to Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u41	I would like to address Elena Babak with words of gratitude for the consistent position, because this bill is critical for reforming, modernizing the residential sector in a multi-story block. But I have a question for Mrs. Babak. Several times the the thesis "to continue on this term" was spoken. And what is the specific term, and what guarantees, that in these extended terms, the problem that today forces us to go back to looking at this bill will be solved?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! In line with Law 417, which we are now in the final stages of. We propose to make changes, it is written that in the 6-month term the Cabinet of Ministers was to develop a typical management contract, and the MINREGION, by its order, was to establish a competitive order. Unfortunately, only now is the order of the contest, and in the 20's, there's a typical management contract to be signed on the Cabinet. So we expect the competition to take place on July 1st. But the question of how long this competition is going to take depends on each city, on each individual contest, because each individual building that does not form a union on July 1st or is not chosen by the owners themselves, the decision of the owners themselves. So we just expect that the competitions will be held in normal terms, and for this period they have to continue with existing service companies and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u43	And last question, Solowy Yuri Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u44	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some questions with the previous reporter on the part that the proposed changes do not regulate the local self-government authorities, within which time to conduct appropriate competitions. This is a very important question, because if we leave it unchanged now, I'll tell you in practice that the authorities of local self-government will extend these competitions for years because they're not interested in changing the form of multi-house management. They are interested in keeping the so - called utilities, which provide services, in making enough money. That's the first question. And the second question. I would like to point out, my fellow Members and the honourable speaker of Parliament, that a year ago we passed this law. Nevertheless, let us take a closer look at the very laws that we are adopting, for a year ago we are adopting, and a year later we are correcting laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u45	I thank you very much for this, for this position to the distinguished national MP who has just spoken, because absolutely right, we should do our utmost. Well, we shouldn't delay this reform. And that's when the bill was written, and that's why it stood on a hard date, July 1. And today we're really consistent, we're not carrying this date in any way, we're just saying that the competitions for objective reasons will only be announced right now, and that's why there's going to be a time to choose the winners. How do you make sure that the authorities of local self-government don't delay, and you really say that sabotage is now going on in some cities, and I don't want to call it from the rostrum which are the cities, but it's really happening. There are even corruption schemes coming in, from the final budget for the municipal jacks, this is today. But these are negative isolated cases. And so if Parliament wants to say that the competitions shouldn't be delayed more than six months, we can write it like that. But I think there's going to be pressure from the community itself on local self-government to keep them from being delayed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u46	Thank you. Question time is complete. For the national MPs who raise their hand. We're going after a full discussion, we're going to have the factions, and the speeches from the deputies, everyone will have the opportunity to speak. So it's just patience. The co-report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing and Housing of Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask everyone to focus right now, because we are considering an extremely important law that will not allow us from July 1st to turn our cities into just, really, garbage dumps. We have heard the meaningful report by Alona Valeriovna Babak. Now I want to add a position to the committee that's considered a lot of comments, and I've taken most of those comments into account. And in order to further develop this law and its ability to adopt it as a whole, and that's very important, I'm stressing this once again, because as of July 1, our Jacks have lost the ability to serve apartment buildings, and this is the law that has been called upon to make this process continuous. It is suggested that under the transcript I will now read the following changes to the first paragraph of article 5. Part five of article 13 of the law is to be made available in the following edition. Fifth: "In the event that, within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, co-owners of a multi-housing house in which there is no merger of co-owners have not decided on the form of the management of a multi-housing house, the management of such a house shall be carried out by a manager appointed on competitive grounds by the executive body of the local council in whose territory the multi-housing house is located. In the event that a decision has been taken by the local council or its implementing body in accordance with legislation to delegate to another authority the functions of exercising control over housing and utilities, ensuring their maintenance and effective use of the necessary level and the quality of services of managers shall be assigned by such an authority on competitive grounds. In such a case, the cost of the service of managing a multi-room house is determined by the results of a competition that is conducted in accordance with the arrangements established by the central executive authority, which ensures the formation of state housing policy and policies in the area of housing and utilities, and the contract for the provision of services to the multi-room manager for a period of 1 year on behalf of the co-owners is signed by the authorized executive body of the relevant local council, whose decision is to appoint the manager. And if, one month before the end of the specified period, none of the parties notify the other party in writing of the rejection of the contract, the contract shall be considered extended for another one-year term." Dear colleagues! This must have been read under the transcript to be taken into account in the adoption of the law. And I'd like to look to colleagues who, I'm sure, will support: both the Opposition Block, and the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, the Radical Party, to unite the efforts of the entire Parliament and, in due course, this very important law for every Ukrainian to adopt as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u48	Thank you. Sign up for a question to a coconspirator. Please record. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u50	Andrew Illenko All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to ask you a question, because I've encountered this in my constituency over and over again, when I'm talking to citizens, it's about housing cooperatives and housing cooperatives. Because in the previous edition of this law, which was passed, there was virtually no such union at all, and it created some misunderstandings and gaps. I know that this project has to be settled, and it introduces the concept of a residential cooperative and a residential cooperative. And I just wanted to make it clear once again to all the Ukrainians who are listening to us, that this form of union has not forgotten that they are there, and according to the moment of the creation of the OSBB, there will be no problems, these cooperatives will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u51	Thank you for asking, Mr. Andrey. First, I want to explain the logic of the committee. We've democratized all procedures as much as possible. In fact, all the organizations that operate multi-room buildings today are left in the same status as they are. We continue with July 1st and for the Jacks the possibility of serving where there is no OSBB, where there is no appointed manager. Also, like you, I'm a major member of the city of Kiev, and I've had dozens of references to cooperatives, and we've taken that into account. And that's why residential cooperatives continue their work, and they have the right to continue to serve houses, accordingly getting paid, as defined by legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, Savchenko Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u53	I had a question like Andrew's, so no, it's off.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u54	Borislav Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, first of all, would like to have such a question, not to coauthors, but to the Ministry of ŽEKH. I just want to know how the information support for the bill is going today? Why isn't today created in a place as informative as it is appropriate for people to really understand what's going on, how they can live on? Because today many majorists are witnessing the fierce resistance of active Jacks who today do not want any new formations. So I'd just like to encourage today to allow that kind of information policy to be done at the state level. Here's the only request.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u56	This question to the co-conspirator, I understand, it's more like a performance. So I'm going to pass on the next word to Gregory Nemira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u57	Please give it to Ichchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u58	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I want to say that today the committee is to be fully responsible for not being included in Bill 1565 of the Motherland Amendment, where we have proposed to transfer to the property of the OSBB buildings only after the capital repairs of these buildings have been carried out. That's the first one. And I have two questions: how could you miss a rule in a bill that a person could be evicted from his own home if there was a debt for maintenance of a house or an instigatory territory? And the second question is, how does a person have to be protected from unwarranted increases or tariffs for maintenance and maintenance of the instigatory territory? Today, we're giving these managers an opportunity to make unreasonably much money on OSBB, to raise these tariffs, and they're not going to have any responsibility. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u59	Please, 30 seconds, I'll let you finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u60	Thank you. And the people in this context will be defenseless. So I want to say, colleagues, we've proposed this amendment, and let's be honest, if we're giving a bill and we're making changes to the Transitional Situations, then there's a bill in "Paternity" too, it has to be an alternative, it has to be an alternative. 4780, it has to be an alternative, it has to be treated the same way as yours. And it has to be fully reported to parliamentarians in order for a decision to be taken. Please answer two questions: How can people live with that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u61	Dmitry Josephovich, please, that's the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u62	I think most of these questions are rhetorical. Again with regard to eviction, we did not ask for specific examples of where, when, who was evicted for not paying for residential services? None of these issues are relevant to the regulation of this bill. As for the protection and establishment of housing and utility tariffs for the maintenance of buildings, all of this is actually being determined by local self-government authorities today. I am sure that people will see to it that this authority takes care of them. So, by the way, it's happening today in Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question to the reporter, the co-rapporteur is complete. Now let's move on to the factions. Please record statements from factions. Please. "self-help," Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that this bill changes only part of the Transitional Regulations of the basic law that we passed with you a year ago. What is he talking about? The fact that people who own their own homes can at any time get rid of any administrator who will be chosen on competitive grounds by local self-government authorities from July 1st. So people can -- please read directly into the word -- that if a decision is made by co-owners to create a union of co-owners or to select their own owner, they will be able to break any moment the contract with the manager they are assigned to after the competition. It only takes two months to inform such a manager. Dearer, more democratic norms can't even be imagined. As for the increase in tariffs, respectable ones, in the associations of coowners that are now being created, people decide to stay on the scale of the contributions they have been paying today. On Kiev, the average is 3 bracelets of 30 copies per square meter. People make this decision: To continue to pay 3,30 extras to maintain their housing. And this is the decision of the owners themselves, how much to pay them. Your Honor, you don't have to speculate about the tariffs for this law. Make your own decisions about management and determine how much you want, and you can pay for the maintenance of your home. This is your property. Our property. Anyone who owns an apartment in a multi-family housing fund. So please, Your Honor, don't hesitate to form a strong, powerful host in this country, because this economy starts with a host. There'll be an economy, there'll be an economy for us, there'll be someone else to manage, there'll be prices to shape, there'll be destruction. So I urge everyone not to delay reforms. Request: To support the bill as a whole and on the basis of it, because it's just a part of the Transitional Regulations, so nothing stops for the period of these competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u66	Smoking Maksim Pavlovich, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Maxim Chicken, 25th constituency, Dnipro, Dnipropetrovsk I'm going to say very briefly and very meaningfully that a year ago you and I adopted a really progressive revolutionary law that is going to take away Ukrainian citizens from communal slavery, in which our people lived for many years. In residential utilities, it was not possible to reach the truth, but only the injustice and abuse of our citizens. People in favor. Who paid for the quarter, and in return they didn't get any service. A year ago, we took people out of this addiction and adopted, in fact, a revolutionary, progressive, forward-looking law on property rights in multi-housing buildings. Yes, I must say that it has been a year since we voted for it, and people have believed in the truthfulness and justice of this law. Congregations are now being held throughout the country to form a unit of joint owners of apartment buildings. There's fear. And most of all, the fear is that people are afraid that the old communal problems are: the holes in the wings, the rotten pipes, the sunken cellars -- they're lying down with a headache on their healthy head. And that's their fear. But we have to tell people the truth, and frankly, that no one is depriving the local executives, the local self-government authorities, of implementing programs to support and capitalize on these outdated problems. Friends! Two of the most important positive features of this very important bill that will allow the introduction of this Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in Multiple Houses. First of all, it's continuity in the provision of housing services, and it's very important, because a lot of people haven't been able to determine themselves on their own with the form of governance of their house, and they haven't been able to create an OSB. That's the first one. The second and no less important is that this bill gives people the opportunity to stop and break the contract for the maintenance of their home at any time after the appropriate warning has been given in two months, and then to determine for themselves the form of governance of this house. That's why this law can be a tool to reverse tariff cuts, a tool to control quality over residential services. We all vote unanimously, the country awaits this very necessary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u68	Exhale Yuri Volodymyrovich of the People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u69	Please give the floor to the co-author of this important bill, Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u70	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, as co-author of this legislative initiative, I would like to support the adoption of this bill. In fact, a year ago, the current Supreme Council adopted a very important and, you could say, the only reform in the housing and utility system that we're finally taking the Ukrainians away from the Soviet JECK system. And now we need to technically regulate this bill by ensuring the continuity of the proper maintenance of apartment buildings. That's why the People's Front faction supports the adoption of this bill and will vote for it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u71	Thank you. And the last performance is the Balic Evgen Vitaliyovich, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u72	Eugenius Balitsky, 80 district, Melitopol, Melitopol district. Please give the floor to Mr. Dnepropetrovsk's defence counsel, Alexander Villkull.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u73	The distinguished people of Ukraine, respected colleagues, the faction of the opposition bloc will support the bill in order to avoid communal chaos during the transition period. So, at the same time, we would like to point out in particular that this bill does not solve all the problems. In particular, it does not address issues related to the responsibility of the administrators. This reform has taken place in many countries, countries and Eastern Europe, in the Baltic countries. And today we can see both the positive experience of this reform and the negative experience. In particular, it was a major problem when these household companies were created, some of which were rogues, some of whom were affairists, and then they just disappeared with people's money without any services. So we, our faction, have introduced a bill that we also request to consider Parliament in the near future, which removes these risks and removes this gap in legislation. This is related, first, to the licensing of managers of companies. Although the country was on the path of deregulation and it was necessary to proceed along the deregulation path, the licensing of managers must be done. Because there can't be a yard company called horn and hoof, registered yesterday, responsible for electricity, heat, water in the house where people live. I mean, the first is the licensing system. Second, mandatory open register of these companies that are licensed on the Cabinet of Ministers. Second, so. We propose, on the basis of the experience of European countries, to make compulsory insurance against those managers. Because people can raise money that's running the company and everything, and then the collapse started. In countries such as France, Germany has introduced compulsory insurance for corporate managers. If the company didn't stop, failed, ran away, never mind, the insurance covers people's entire contributions. And the people at today's space public tariffs in today's situation are at least not suffering in today's life. We therefore insist that in the coming days, until 1 July, this system of transition to managers has entered into force, we consider a bill on corporate responsibility. People shouldn't get hurt. This is Bill 4745. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u74	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we have the last chapter of the reservation. Aah! There's still a faction of Fatherland. Please, Julia Timoshenko. And then come out of the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u75	Now again, I would like to address the Ukrainian citizens who are listening to us. In fact, according to the abbreviation of OSBB, things are very dangerous for people. Our faction did not vote in favour of this law, and we voted even, I think, against it. Because this bill foresees that people will now be fully equipped with all the components of the quartz required for the building’s capital repair, the current renovation of the building, including multiple floors, apartment, driveways, communications, boilers, roofs, and even 500 meters [500 m] around the house, these are engineering networks that also plan to pay for the quarterly payment. In other words, you're in shock right now, and the OSB Act, it's going to be the same shock on the quarter pay as when a quarter payment can go up by two, three, four, five, and sometimes ten times, because there are big houses that didn't go through 60-70 years of capital repair. And now, if someone were to pay you something, they'd pay you something, but in fact, they'd put it all on the budgets of Ukrainian families. I can tell you that this bill is just as scary as the market tariffs and gas prices that are now setting you up. This is a crime against every Ukrainian. Since there will be no volunteering, half of the law has been written to you that you are voluntarily uniting and agreeing voluntarily that you will keep your multistory house at your own expense. And the other half of the law that if you fail to make a voluntary decision in a year, you will be forced to be harassed by managers just as you are now being bullied by tariffs. And that's why it's a very dangerous thing. And I'm going back to the Chief of the Supreme Council, and we have an alternative bill of 4078, so why didn't they put it in the agenda? There is a year’s delay in the implementation of this law. Because this law provides that if you are paid multiple times and you are unable to pay for it, your apartments will be taken away. Dear friends, another huge pressure is being prepared on your family budgets. And so this law must be suspended for a year, and in no case can it be adopted. I'm asking you to give me another 30 seconds. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u77	The thing is, the managers you're being forced to do are just as much corruption from local authorities as any other corruption. And they're going to be bullying you just like they're being bullied on tariffs right now. And that's why I'm calling on all Ukrainian citizens to hold the House immediately and to give it up officially. Jackets are bad, they're terrible, but the management companies are even worse, it's the loss of apartments for many people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u78	Now, honourable colleagues, the last chapter of our discussion, this is a speech by the national MPs. Let us be as concise as possible so that we can move quickly to making a decision. I'm asking you to keep a record of the nationals speaking. Please. Jaroslav Yuriovich Jedakov, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u79	Please pass the word to your colleague Stasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u80	212th District, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I think we have all the arguments in favor of this bill. And I also urge you to concentrate and support this law, because it will allow quality and quality to enter into the system of reforming the HKG. All the reasons for supporting this law have already been expressed. I suggest we shorten the speech and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Bogdan Matkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, it's very strange to hear this position of our colleagues from the Party of Fatherland. But I understand, and I repeat, that everything new is going very hard in our country. And since we don't have the opportunity today to give people a new quality of housing, a new quality of opportunity for people's lives, today we're just forcing them to go into slavery again. Yes, there is indeed a very difficult situation in cities today. And I want to give an example in one city called Zitomir, where number 4 has already fought a year against people who wanted to create OSB. And I welcome the leaders of the OSBB, such as Mr. Januszewich, who managed to obtain the right to own it in a year's time. To have ownership of a house of more than 300 people. So, here, I want to say, yes, service companies, service companies are supposed to provide very high-quality services today, because their lives depend on what these services will be, how they will be provided, on time or on time, and who will be guaranteed by the people who pay them. And I wanted to go to the Ministry again. Today, your work, you're called the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, please do an explanatory job among the population, tell them about the advantages of these bills, because today we're going to force people to go back and not have any possibilities. If we speak today about capital construction or capital repairs, there is no way in the local budgets of such money to do so. And that's only possible when it comes to lending a credit policy that the whole world is supporting today. I remind you that a billion 400 million euros were given to us for two years on energy efficiency issues. Dear colleagues! I think that this bill should be supported in general because we have no right to delay any longer. Give people the opportunity to live in new conditions and that is a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u84	Roman's Anna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u85	I give the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Those in this room who don't know what OSB stands for, I'm going to try to decipher: uniting the owners of the apartment house is a merger of the owners. And when someone in this room tries to humiliate the institution of property in this state, he degrades more than 3 million people who have already created and united together into such a union for the proper management of their property, their dwellings. And that's why I'm asking this room to understand that Ukraine is holding on to the host, and we can't give the right to continue, instead of the owner, to manage its property to some utility company or anyone. It's the sole authority of the owner to decide how much to pay for the service, how much to pay for the service, how much to take, if they need credit or not to take it at all, it's the sole authority of the owner. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't say that we should go back to the Soviet Union for 70, for 100 years, we don't have that right, because we have to have a decent life in this state. For those who talk about capital repairs. Your Honor, the 1992 law is in effect! I urge all Ukrainians, all deserving owners, to address their local communities with the request to develop local targeted programs to co-finance multi-housing housing. Do this locally through a targeted program and co-finance capital repairs. There's a need to do that, but it has to be transparent, it's clear to each of the wakes, and not to any individual who uses some kind of pocket jack, it has to be everyone's right to have access to budget co-financing in every inhabited area. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not react to the manipulations that are now taking place because Ukraine is holding on to the host. We do not have the right to humiliate those who are already masters and who are fit to live in this land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u87	Alexander Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u88	Please, the word of the Lion of Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u89	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. A successful country is primarily an educated household, and households do not just end up outside the apartment, but spread across the territory outside the apartment, these are both driveways, and stair cages, and elevators, as well as catchment area. In fact, the OSBB Institute, a merger of joint owners of apartment buildings, provides an opportunity to effectively manage the entire territory and property that is outside the apartment. In fact, the OSB Institute enables people to understand that they own not only their own apartment but also their responsibility for being outside of their apartment and, in addition to being responsible, they have the appropriate authority, financial resources, the ability to actually manage the objects. So we need to take big steps to bring in successful examples across the country, which are in many places, actually successful examples of the creation of OSBB and the functioning of OSBB. And this bill is now extremely important, because from July 1st we can create such a hole in the functioning of the homes of those we can't allow. So I call on everyone and I support Alona Babak, and I urge everyone to vote on the basis, and in general this bill, so that we don't create some kind of legislative vacuum since 1 July. We vote in favour and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Vojtic Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u92	Now my colleagues are coming up and talking about capital repairs, and they're going back to the 1992 Law. Dear colleagues! I'm paying attention to this Act, it's called "The Privatization of the State Housing Fund," and it says that the first after privatization is co-financed by the previous owner. Many ask: Who is the previous owner? All the houses in the Soviet Union belonged to the State, but with Ukraine’s independence in 1991, the buildings were handed over to the councils of the people’s deputies, that is, to the local communities in our mind. So today, the previous owner, in fact, who was and is today a territorial community before privatization. And when we talk to you about how much money is needed, how is this organized? So we're saying that today the local community, because of the decision of the local council, can develop a local target programme to co-finance capital work. And if there is a specific house in a residential area that has had no funding since 1992, then, your honor, we all have the right to demand from our local authorities today. Our local councils include the financing of such works under the conditions of co-financing from local budgets. This could be a program that's going to be 10 years old, depending on the availability of the budget. Now decentralization is coming, local communities have got more money to finance the capital nature of the work. They might not just be repairing the elevator, but maybe it'll warm up the building, but it's still a work of a capital character that's going to be geared towards improving the fence structure of a building. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's go with you and look for the right mechanisms today to co-finance, improve our lives, and use all the tools that exist today. As for the stewards mentioned here today. Ladies and gentlemen, until the end of this session, we have to vote on the Housing and Utilities Act, which will state the responsibility of managers through certification of managers, in particular their qualifications; the obligation to insure damages caused by property as a result of the activities or inaction of managers. So, of course, we're going to be preparing all the legislative bases, in order to increase the responsibility of anyone involved in managing our only asset that is in the Ukrainians today, this is our home.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that a decision must be made in order for the owners to be in multi-family homes. We all see and know where they are. I have to tell you that the city of Novograd-Wolinski has been created by a lot of OSBB, but mostly there are people who don't have high assets, and there are a lot of problems, and the OSBB is walking with an outstretched hand to solve the most pressing, pressing problems. Obviously, it would have been right if before the building was transferred, or the creation of the OSB, or the transfer of the status of these houses to the new managers: it was determined how much money people had invested in paying for the corresponding utilities to the JACK, and where the money had gone. Finally, it would be as right as possible to solve the most important problems, namely, repairing roofs and repairing communications. And then people would start doing it on their own. Otherwise, I think we're going to create a lot of problems. So the proposal is to adopt this bill as a way of doing things and to see that we can make amendments and additions to the second reading so that the possibilities for the law to work are created here. Otherwise we're going to adopt a non-working law, there's going to be proper slogans and declarations, and more than that, they're going to look like a force on people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u95	Thank you. And, dear fellows, this is the last performance. And I'm asking all the national MPs to come into the hall, and in five minutes, there's gonna be a vote. I'm asking the factions to mobilize deputies to make a decision. So Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u96	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u98	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, Ukrainian people! Our nation deviated from the colporteuric method of governing Soviet power in 1991. And so to move on to the importance of the populist government that the state or the owners have to do their work, that's the wrong thing to do. Thus, the proper organization of multi - apartment buildings will be able to find real owners. And this requirement applies to those people who don't want to organise it, so it will be the organizer who will be responsible for the energy saving of these buildings that are loaned; the organization of service monitoring, especially on heat supply, on electricity supply, on gas supply; the organization of the calculation of the provision of these services; and the organisation of tariffs, including the quarterly payment and maintenance of areas. And I want to point out that the threat to the state is not now. The threat to the state and to the same people was when they signed gas-price agreements three times higher than they were now or then raised. Then there was the threat to both the state and the people. Thus, respectable owners of apartments should organize and repair multistory buildings. We need to warm them up. And they must do all they can to make sure that these houses are in proper condition. So I'm asking MPs not to engage in, you know, this Colombian-Racian populism, but to adopt this law, and to allow people who are going to be organized to do business properly in the houses where they live, and in the apartments that they own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u99	Thank you. I would like to ask if there is a need for a closing statement by the reporter Babak Alona Valerian? If I ask you, could it be one final word from both of you, he's two reporters? Of the two, the reporter, the coconspirator, one closing word. Please turn on 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u100	The only request, your honor, is that we don't have time. On July 1st, the law of Act 417 on the specialities of the exercise of property rights in multi-housing buildings becomes effective. Competitions in homes where humans have not created a union or have not chosen their own stewards should be held. And at this time, for the duration of these competitions, it's going to take someone to serve the houses. We have to give active companies the right to continue doing this. Therefore, honourable fellow workers, today’s request to uphold this law as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall, take your jobs and prepare for the decision. Please, the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please invite the deputies to the Hall, the heads of the factions, I will also forgive you for inviting the deputies into the Hall and preparing for the vote. So, colleagues, we've been following the full procedure for discussing the draft Law on the Specialities of Realization of Property in a Multi-Apartment House. We were able to exchange thoughts and make the necessary decisions, and now we can go to the vote. And I'm going to make the first proposal to the committee that came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House (room 4680), according to the Committee's proposal on the basis and overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals, which were raised by the committee's head, the first deputy head of the committee under the transcript. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[11:35:18]] For 259. The law is passed. Congratulations to the authors, and welcome to the committee for a good, quality job. And we're going to the next item in the agenda. This is draft Law 3555, draft Financial Restructuring Act. A lot of changes. Please prepare the amendments for discussion. And I invite the deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking to the report Demczak Ruslan Evgeniovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u102	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is presented by the Ukrainian Financial Restructuring Act 3555 of 30.11.2015, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It refers to the restructuring of debts by only legal persons, the main purpose of the bill is to prevent the bankruptcy of working enterprises, not to repeat the mistakes of the 1990s, to give them a chance to survive. For the second reading, the bill has been extensively developed. A working group of deputies, representatives of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the National Bank, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have worked hard on the bill. I would like to draw your attention to the situation in which the last draft of the bill, supported by the committee, is being drafted. The first is the full bilateral voluntary nature of the restructuring process, i.e. the absence of elements of the constraint in the involvement of debtors in the procedure. The second is an increase in the threshold for initiating the restructuring process by the borrower, provided that consent to participate in the restructuring should be signed by the existing several financial institutions, to which it belongs, at least, 50 per cent of the total amount of claims. Allowing other creditors to join the procedure after it begins. Next. After the role. enhancing the role of arbitration in resolving conflicts between the parties and the possibility for the arbitrator to approve the restructuring plan if more than 2/3 creditors voted in favour of it. The introduction of buffers for creditors who took part in. who did not vote or voted against the agreed restructuring plan, namely: the conditions of repayment of the debt to them should not be worse if the creditors who voted; the conditions for creditors that are linked to the debtor cannot be better if any other creditor is satisfied. In doing so, the restructuring plan cannot provide for the obligation of a creditor who has not taken part in the vote or has opposed to agreeing on a restructuring plan, without his consent to grant financing to the debtor, to forgive part of the debt in the event that such debt is fully secured by a mortgage, to completely suspend the accrual of the interest, to channel the assets held in the mortgage or mortgage of such creditor to meet the requirements of other creditors, except in cases where the amount of the funds received exceeds the requirements of a creditor who has not taken part in the vote or voted against the acceptance of the restructuring plan. The bill's proposals are also being circulated for the restructuring of corporate debt to the contracting authorities. The bill received 422 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, of which 370 were counted, 52 were rejected. The National Bank supports the bill. And I want to stress that this bill will help reduce the problem portfolio of banks and increase the viability of companies that have significant debts. Counting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u103	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u104	Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft of the Ukrainian Financial Restructuring Act, No. 3555 of 30.11.2015, to be adopted on second reading and as a whole. Please support this bill. And ready to go to the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Let's go to the right. According to a committee representative, 370 rights have been counted, but 52 have not been counted and I will start counting them. And I ask the right-holders to be careful. 1st, Romanyuk. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 13th, Lensky. Don't insist. 14th, Petaovka. Don't insist. 15th, Dove. Don't insist. 37th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 50th, Dove. Don't insist. 65th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 66th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 70th, Dovbanko. Don't insist. 78th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 79th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 81st, Pietovka. Don't insist. 82nd, Petaovka. Don't insist. 85th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 96th, Pietovka. Don't insist. 119th, Pietovka. Don't insist. 127th, Lensky. Don't insist. 137th, Demczak. Don't insist. 138th, Pietovka. Don't insist. 141st, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 143rd, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 149th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 152nd, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 153rd, Petovka. Don't insist. 154th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 161st, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 162nd, Polyakov. Don't insist. 174th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 175th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 180th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u106	In order to avoid accumulation of financial restructuring, it is worth setting a minimum amount of financial commitment that will give the secretariat the right to apply for financial restructuring. Since financial restructuring is characterized by volunteerism, I believe that it is possible to set a lower threshold for initiation than for bankruptcy cases. This is a technical regulation that will allow for the proper administration of this process. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u107	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Then I put to the vote the amendment of 180 people’s deputies, Levchenk. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:42:37]] For 104 The decision is not made. 187th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 191st, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 196, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 211th, Levechenko. Don't insist. 211th. He insists. Turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u108	The adoption of the provisions set out in article 20 of this bill threatens to make bankruptcy extremely prolonged, as it will allow the debtor to undergo a re-save, i.e. (in paws) "voluntary financial restructuring" at the start of bankruptcy. In addition, the possibility of restructuring can be used by noncontributory debtors to delay recognition by bankruptcy. Therefore, in order to avoid delaying the resolution of the debtor’s eligibility issues, it is appropriate to limit the importance of voluntary financial restructuring if the court has accepted an application for bankruptcy. In addition, the improvement in Ukraine's position in direct regulation of payability in the Doing Business rating, which is much and much talked about here, requires a reduction in the bankruptcy process. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u109	Ruslan Evgeniovich, is there a need to comment on this amendment? Is that right? Please turn on the Demczak Ruslan microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u110	This does not delay bankruptcy at all. If there has already been a decree to violate the bankruptcy of a judge, that law is not. Then it doesn't work. The act of this law may be either a bankruptcy procedure, or when the judge has not yet been accepted as a violation of bankruptcy. So these are absolutely different processes. And that's why, I think, well, we don't need to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u111	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote amendment 211 of the People's Deputies of Lewchenko. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:44:54]] For-100 The decision is not taken. 215th, Dove. Don't insist. 223, Demczak. Don't insist. 226th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 238, Lavrick. Don't insist, it's wise. 253, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 254, Polyakov. Don't insist. 316, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 320th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 324th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 326th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Number? We haven't reached 343, but we're getting closer and closer. 343, Demczak. Don't insist. 344th, Polyakov. 43rd. Please turn on the microphone. A boy. Dowbenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u112	Mr. Head, I suggest you make 343 amendments for confirmation. Please put to the vote 343 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u113	I'll just ask Ruslan Evgenovich to comment. Please, Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u114	If we don't support this amendment, if it's taken off, and there's every chance of it, and we see how we vote in favour of the amendments, because of the increasing role of an independent expert to prevent the corruption of the restructuring process, I want to sign a technical harmonization stenogram. Paragraph 18 of Part One of article 1 after the words “with the creditor” shall be completed by the words “conforms with the requirements set by the Monitoring Board”. The other one. Part two of article 14 should be supplemented by a new paragraph 8 which reads: "Development and approval of requirements for independent experts".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u115	Please tell me after this amendment, what is your position on the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u116	It's my amendment, I support it, of course. The point is that now, as independent experts decide, if there's a negative conclusion, and we understand that then the price of this expertise is growing, they can stop, they can definitely stop the restructuring. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u117	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u118	Considering that this is my amendment, I would take that down. But now that we've put in for confirmation, if we don't even support it, with such technical legal rights, we're going to raise the demands on these experts and we're going to destroy the corruption components.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u119	Thank you. So the committee can't see the threat unless this position is supported. Yeah? I'm betting on confirmation of the amendment of 343 national MP Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote 343. [[11:48:40]] For-100 The decision is not made. Correction not supported. 344. Don't insist. 383, Dovbenko. Don't insist. No, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we are actually finishing our consideration of the issue. In five minutes, there will be a vote, and I ask you to inform the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the heads of the factions to maximize the mobilization of deputies in the Chamber. Let's move on. 408 amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. He insists, please turn on the microphone, 408.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u120	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to go to the rapporteurs more closely to monitor the amendments, because in fact, my past amendment didn't apply to the previous trial, but it was about stopping the delay by filing an application to the court in the middle of this trial when you're prescribing. Well, it's as simple as that, actually. I would now like to go to the entire room about the impossibility of adopting this bill, not in terms of this particular amendment, but in terms of the philosophy of this project at all. The point is that both creditors and debtors may be subject to arbitration by an arbitration committee formed by an observer council, or executive authorities. This limits the freedom of the parties in both domestic and civil relations, which is guaranteed by valid legislation. It should be added that both debtors and creditors can speak in the interests of a monitoring board and of such an arbitral committee, so there is doubt as to the impartiality of such bodies. So I call on the hall, in fact, not to support this bill as a philosophical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u121	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So, Yuri Lewchenko doesn't insist on voting, I remind the MPs, I ask you to come into the hall, take up jobs, we keep going to the amendments. So, respectable colleagues, there are no more amendments that have been rejected. We were able to go through all the amendments, but I would like to ask the deputy head of the committee, Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich, to make a very clear statement for the transcripts of these proposals that he had made before we had already voted on those proposals, considering that one of the amendments was not supported. Please, for three minutes, Ruslan Evgenovich, say very substantively for the transcript. Turn on Demczak Ruslan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u122	In view of the increasing role of an independent expert to prevent corruption, I would like to sign a technical-legal reconciliation transcript for the restructuring process. Paragraph 18 of part one of article 1. After the words "with the creditor," add the words "conforms with the requirements set by the observation board." Part two of article 14 should be supplemented by a new paragraph, paragraph 8, which reads as follows: "development and approval of requirements for independent experts." In addition, there was a call to the reporters. I would like to say in support of this bill that there is no delay in bankruptcy here. Because restructuring itself is limited in time. It's a 90-day board of creditors. If they are unable to draw up a restructuring plan and adopt it unanimously in 90 days, they are able to continue for only 90 days. If they agreed in 180 days, the process of restructuring is halted – and the enterprise is on the path that is now being distributed, that is, the approval of bankruptcy. And then the company can either go to rehab, or it can go bankrupt. The point of this bill is to avoid bankruptcy. That's the logic: so we don't have to start a bankruptcy procedure. And if there is already the judge's approval, as I said, then unfortunately this law will not apply to these enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. So the reporter, Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich, sounded the amendments under the transcript. We can move on to making a decision. And I'm asking all national deputies to take their seats. A very thorough work was carried out both by the committee and by the national deputies. And, dear colleagues, since 1155, with your permission, I will conduct a rating vote so that we can verify the mobilization of the hall by decision. And I'm asking all the national MPs to take their jobs and prepare for the vote, my colleague. Thus, the draft Financial Restructuring Act (3555) is currently under consideration. But first, I'm conducting a rating vote, and I'm asking all the national MPs to take part in this vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please take part in the vote. The rating vote. Please take part in the vote. [[11:55:09]] For-195 Dear colleagues, there's a low level of mobilization in the hall. Why don't we exchange our thoughts? "self-help," you don't support this bill, do you? You don't support this bill? Do you support the second or not? Do you support the second or not? Please. Colleagues, let's talk about how we should be. Colleagues! So which of the suggestions will be supported by the hall? It's a second reading. Will self-help support the second reading? Supports Self-Help. Supports Self-Help for re-reading. Colleagues, what recommendations are in factions? Please turn Ruslan Evgeniovich Demczak on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u124	I'd just like to contact the self-help deputies. They're co-authors, and I can't understand why they didn't vote. If they have any motives, let them make some kind of clear argument. If we hear them, yes, if we don't, that's a political decision. And I think we need to put politics on the other side. Many businesses are waiting in Ukraine for this restructuring, we have been forgiven by international institutions 20 percent of our debt, give our enterprises a chance to survive. So once again, I ask you to support my respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u125	Please, Self-Help, who's going to perform? Yegor Sobolev, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, we never vote as an exchange, as an agreement, more like revenge. This is a totally conscious position of faction. We support many ideas of this law. I'm just quoting his main problem. Most articles of the draft use the term "other issues", "other reasons", "vote from any issue", "other property and financial sanctions", and so on. This is from the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The same is true of our Committee’s constant opposition to corruption. When the word "other" is written, it means anything, and this law is filled with such formulations. Since it's about money, about financial restructuring, it's going to cause a lot of abuse. We propose that this law be redrafted, so that there are no such imprecise formulations, and we are happy to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u127	One minute is easy and then Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction insists that Parliament, in the first place, consider laws to create an investigation commission to investigate the corruption of high-ranking officials of the state, so that we can make decisions that will radically reduce the cost of tariffs and utility for citizens, which rises from July 1st to space levels and people are unable to pay for it. After that, we will unlock the parliamentary rostrum, work and vote for all necessary bills. With regard to this bill on the restructuring of the debts of legal persons, the bill is certainly important. But let's remember. Recently, the President called the head of Nazbank Gottareva the best banker of all time and peoples. Last year, nearly 70 banks were destroyed in Ukraine, and over 82 billion dollars of their own funds and property were lost by legal persons. It's actually the destruction of its own economy, it's actually the laundering of funds from the economy. So we strongly deny that we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u129	Thank you. So it's 1 minute now, Kugel. And let's move on to making decisions. Please, colleagues, we're about to make a decision. Please come into the hall. And, Alexandra Kugel, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u130	Today the "Fatherland" faction has discussed this bill very carefully at a faction meeting. And we supported it in the second reading, but we were ready, and we were given the commission to prepare for it. And if this is an opportunity, I understand that there is a similar feeling in other fellow MPs, because in this bill there is a greater interest in restructuring banks. Regrettably, the financial restructuring of businesses remains quite complex and difficult for the borrower. The worst part is that it doesn't extend to the natural persons of entrepreneurs before the project. It's a violation of the law, constitutional. And so once again, when most of the rooms feel the same warnings that we have, we suggest that we send this bill for a second reading again, taking into account the comments that I have called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u131	Colleagues, so let's put it this way: now I'm going to put the committee's decision on the table, if it doesn't get the majority, then we're going to re-read it. And it supports Self-Help, right? Oleg, I ask you again: "self-help" supports re-second reading? I'm asking my colleagues to mobilize. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please, I'll make a proposal to the committee first. If she doesn't get the right number of votes, let's go back to second reading. It can weigh any voice, any voice can have weight. And that's why I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So I'm putting to the vote a project, a draft law on financial restructuring (number 3555) in second reading and in general. Who supports this proposal, please. We'll wait. Colleagues are in place. Colleagues! The whole room is waiting for you to get to your jobs. The whole room is waiting. Did you take up jobs? So the draft Law on Financial Restructuring (No. 3555) in the second reading and in general. Important bill, colleagues. Vote. Please vote. Please. [[12:02:54]] For 229 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the team's decision. Dear colleagues, before we announce a recess, one minute, we still have an announcement. First. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Murayev Eugene Volodymyrovic from the opposition bloc. I would also like to inform you that there is now an exhibition on the third floor, which is in turn and organized for tomorrow's parliamentary hearings. And I invite everyone: both the heads of factions and the deputies to an exhibition that takes place on the third floor to pay attention to our scientists. According to the Rules, I announce a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 30 minutes to 12.35. Thank you. To continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for work. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I invite all members of the national parliament to the hall. There was a request from two factions for a break from the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party faction. But they're willing to take a break and replace it with a tribune. And I give the floor to speak from Victoria Vojcitsky's rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, thank you very much for your opportunity to address you today. This morning, my family began to feel anxious. This is the second case I can call pressure, pressure on me as a deputy, pressure on my family. In the morning, when my husband drove into the courtyard of his office in Vorowsky, his car was evicted by a car with Lithuanian plates. At the same time, a man with a mask on his face and with his head closed ran out of the car and left the car on the street. This is the second time that I have tried to put pressure on my family, my family, this year alone. For your information, I came to this place in a few minutes, as it happened. My 15-year-old daughter was in the car with me. It was my daughter who helped us at 4 in the morning to put out the fire that resulted from the fact that a three-litre bank was thrown out with an incendiary mixture right under the windows of our bedroom, where we slept with a four-month-old child. My child cried, and these tears I remember for life. But I also remember that during all this time, I was summoned once or once to the Ukrainian Security Service to testify. I haven't heard from the investigator in all this time, absolutely, not a word. Similarly, there is no word, no investigation, from the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It feels like nothing's happened. The previous Attorney General Shockin then claimed that he was taking personal control of that disgraceful case that happened under my house's windows at 4:00 a.m. And it seems that his personal control did not lead to anything. I have a simple question: where can they find justice in our country, and at least any security, ordinary people when the cases that the Attorney General takes over lie for months and are not investigated. I have great expectations and an appeal to today's Attorney General, to Mr. Lucenka, to take this situation under personal control and to ensure that those who are trying to hold me and our entire faction accountable are investigated and brought to justice by our entire party individually.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u134	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u135	The only thing I want to add is that I don't believe in coincidence. Today, my initiative will be to look at a fuel-energy committee about, you know, the "Rotterdam + Freight" formula, the setting of coal prices that will give Mr. Ahmetov and his holding of DTEK to provide an additional 10 billion dollars this year alone. This is when we raise prices for utilities and population tariffs. And so, once again, I would like to address you, dear fellows! Each of you may be the same source of trouble for our oligarchs, but I urge you to think that we must ensure justice in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u136	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We now have two bills under consideration: one is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (2280a), which has only 2-3 amendments and the next, for re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. "For the re-examination of the proposals of the President of Ukraine" cannot be considered by a reduced procedure, he needs a full procedure of consideration. Wouldn't you have any objections, dear colleagues, if we started our work after lunch with the Ukrainian Law on State Defense Order (2090a), because it provides a key task – to provide our army with weapons, tanks, and then to the Higher Education Bill. If there is no objection, dear colleagues, because there will be a long discussion of the President's proposals and we will be able to mobilise ourselves in this matter so that we can make a decision. If there is no objection, then I am announcing a review of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders, with proposals from the President of Ukraine (number 2090a), and I invite the representative of the Ukrainian President in the Supreme Council, Gerasimov Artura Volodymyrovich, to the report. Please, Mr. Arthur. I would like to point out that by full procedure, we have no other procedure, only that we can go, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Golovo, Honorary Fellows, on 26 January 2016 Parliament passed the whole Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order" on the formation and execution of a state defence order (registration number 2090a). The prescribed law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine in view of the following. The law that comes with the signature uses such terms as "outside of the defense order", "in exceptional cases", "in case of urgent need." However, their essence is not in line with the principle of legal certainty and can be subjectively treated during practical implementation. Then the Head of State proposes changes that remove the stated legal uncertainty in the content of the law that came upon the signature. The law also provides that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approves the main indicators of the state defence order within a month of the adoption of the National Budget Act of Ukraine for the corresponding year. However, according to article 94, part five, of the Constitution, the law takes effect 10 days from the date of its official publication, unless otherwise stipulated by the law itself, but not before the date of its publication. In view of what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes that the words "admission of the law" be replaced by the words "increasing the law." As it is known, for all cases today, where a public contract provides for the purchase of defence goods at an amount exceeding 5 million euros for imports, there is a requirement of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders for the mandatory conclusion of compensatory offsets. Paragraph 6 of Section I of the Act, which came to be signed, stipulates that under a special period of emergency and during the time of the anti-terrorist operation, compensatory offset contracts are not made, which deprives them of the possibility of producing in Ukraine a defence product purchased at the time of import. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes that the second paragraph of section 6 and the law be drafted as follows: "In a special period, the introduction of a state of emergency and during the course of an anti-terrorist operation, compensatory offset contracts may not be entered into as a result of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." The fifth paragraph of Section I, paragraph 5, of the law that has been signed provides for the possibility for government contractors to make public contracts on their own with a foreign-owned entity if the contracting authority has the authority to establish external economic activities for the purpose of purchasing products, jobs, and defence services. However, according to the Ukrainian Act on State Control of International Transfers of Military Assignment and Double Use Goods, the relevant agreements are made by operators who carry out international transfers of goods, not by government contractors, as in the law that came into force. In view of the foregoing, paragraph 6 of section I of paragraph 5 does not correspond to the provisions of the current legislation of Ukraine and is therefore proposed to exclude them. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the above law with his motivated and formulated proposals. Dear colleagues! Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to this law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now the question to the reporter. Anyone who has a question, please record. And please sign up for the question, please. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Taras the Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u140	Self - Help. The Self-Help faction will support the President's initiative, because they're really geared towards even in the special period that we have today, there's been no attempt, unfortunately, that's quite common in recent times, and in this room, to hide any purchases that are being made in the Ministry of Defence, or any purchases, services, or goods. So in fact, the President's initiative that all purchasers should go through solely through the defense order that the committee sees, that Parliament sees, that we approve after that funding in the budget, and only in that order can we really know that these funds will go and will be used effectively. Because given that there are quite a lot of contracts that I think walkers are enough under the Ministry of Defence, and unfortunately we can't see these contracts anymore. That is why we today call on all of this legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u141	Thank you. I understand it wasn't a question, it was a performance, right? So let's do the next one. Alexander Danchenko. No, it's not. Yes, Leuchenko Yuri. That's a question, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u142	Thank you. Lewchenko, 223 district, city of Kiev, Freedom. I'd just like to pay attention to the reporter as the president's representative, well, and at the same time ask him, maybe he'll give an answer, well, and pay attention to the entire faction of the President of BPT. The thing is, given the strange coincidence of the circumstances, well, the 85 proposals of the President that he's returned to this law now, one of them is totally copying my amendments, which I proposed to take into account during the consideration of the bill for the second reading, but which somehow, you know, well, at best, they got 95-97 votes. Well, it's just, you know, maybe it's a rhetorical question, and maybe the President's representative will say something, that maybe we should work harder on the amendments, so that it's not that the President's faction first fails the amendments, and then the President himself makes the amendments and returns to the Supreme Council in the form of his proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u143	Please, Mr. Arthur. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Yuri! Dear colleagues! You know, I think when it comes to the defense of the state, we have one task: to support together our boys on the front with the best weapons, the best equipment, and the enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u145	Thank you. Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u146	I have a question. Is the defense order focused on all the trends in order for the Ukrainian Armed Forces to receive any appropriate preferences rather than on the IMF. Because underneath the veiled defense order are the backpacks of Habakkuk, the fire trucks blocking the tribune of the faction, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u147	Please turn on Gerasimov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u148	Thank you for asking. I can immediately say that the state defense order clearly takes into account the interests of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, above all. However, we cannot say that we should give in to matters that concern our National Guard or the Border Guards. We also need to support these kinds of armies. And besides, I'd like to say that one of the President's proposals is to return all the contracts within the defense order, because you know, in that law that was voted by the Supreme Council, I'm praying that we can make these contracts outside the defense order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u149	Thank you. The time for questions is exhausted. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u150	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to go back to my colleague Victoria Sumar's speech this morning. We're looking at a very important Act on State Defense Order. We've made a lot of improvements, and the committee is proposing to support the president's editorial work. But, dear friends, look at this room, there aren't even 200 votes here to support this bill. Dear friends, we've informed you a hundred times, it's a good bill on state defense, but you and I haven't allocated money to state defense. And you know, there's so much going on in this room that Putin will assign us a governor, deliberately failing all the initiatives to increase the security of our state. I'm addressing everyone again. Friends! Let's forget about the self-piar, let's forget about our ratings, let's forget about the country's swinging. I assure everyone that if we lose this war, you won't be interested. I call again. The first is to support this bill. And the second is let's move from words to real things. Let's vote Thursday on the Law on Confiscation and fill in the real meaning of these legislative acts. For the fifth time, since April 15, the actual execution of the state defense order has been blocked, we have not allocated any funds. Now, agents of Putin are walking around the hall saying it's impossible to give money to the army because they're going to steal it. So let's say, let's dissolve the army, let's declare the slogan of peace, let's declare war, let's dissolve the army, let's go to the northern neighbour, so he can send us a king of any kind, because I don't think we have a king in our heads anymore. Dear friends, I call upon everyone to vote on this law, and on Thursday to fill this law with real finance and real meaning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question-and-answer to the co-rapporteur, please record. Paul Kishkar, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u152	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine In general, in support of the ideology of the bill, we cannot agree more precisely with Mr. Sergey Volodymyrovich on the absence of the state defence order itself. Let me remind you, it's a short retrospect. It was the state defense order that was accepted in January, in January! And so far there's no bracelet. If we continue to speak and translate from one to the next. Let Mr. President introduce a bill that is funded from the general budget fund of the State budget by the measures envisaged in the relevant law in the State Defence Procurement Act. We await this bill from the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u153	Thank you. Is there a need for an answer? Please turn on the microphone. Sergei Volodymyrovich Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u154	What the honourable MP Kishkar said is: Let's not take Yanukovich's money, but let's take the money from the teachers, the doctors, let's cut the subsidies. I agree that the defense of our country is a priority, but still, perhaps we can make it at the expense of the money stolen from the people of Ukraine. By the way, it's 40 billion, and on the defense order, the entire security sector's budget is only 10 billion. 30 billion of us will be able to raise the well-being of our people. And once again, of course, no one will let the populists and demagogans stop the armament of our army. But I would not want to do that at the expense of ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u155	Soloy Yuri Igorovich, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u156	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. The honourable colleagues, the President's proposals on this bill, are slightly expanding the list of services and jobs that we need to include in the area of state defence, as part of the funds that are currently envisaged are unfortunately spent by the Ministry of Defence outside the state defence order. And so with these proposals, we should agree, they are of the right kind. In addition, I support the head of Mr. Pashinsky's committee that today the issue of financing a state defence order in our state should be of a priority. And that bill that's on Thursday, I think today we all need to mobilize on a case-by-case basis to support it. I don't think any of the arguments that will be in this bill are fully refined, unacceptable, because today's state defense order.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u157	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u158	Because today the execution of a state defense order in our country is under threat of collapse. In addition, I want to point out that the production of weapons is one of the most important sectors in the structure of the Ukrainian economy, which can be competitive and which state should focus all its efforts. That is why I call for support for the President's proposals and for everyone to vote in favour of the Special Seizures Act on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u159	Thank you. Last question, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u160	The narrator said that the army needed money. Yes, the army needs funds. But neither the police nor Mr. Avakov, nor his son, nor his deputies, who stole a lot of money, nor Mr. Averian, the fire trucks that had not yet surrendered, and how many millions of dollars had been stolen there, tens of millions of dollars, and no tenders. That's what I need to talk to you about. You have to steal less, and there'll be money for the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u161	Please, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u162	I'd like to address the honourable Mr. Deputy. If he has any facts about the theft of an official, it should be properly referred to the Attorney General's Office, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. I want to talk to the audience. This is the kind of conversation that distracts us from the essence of the matter. It's not about giving money to an official, it's about financing Ukraine's GDP, it's about financing our army. And to break this funding, we're being dumped by these fairies. I want to make one more point, of course, we'll do everything that's possible and impossible and finance a state defense order under the new law. And to the gentlemen who care so much about Yanukovich's money, I want to say, relax, neither he nor his dealers will get that money, and no one will get a lot of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u163	The questions and answers are exhausted. Let's move on to the factions. And I'm asking you to record statements by factions and groups of parliament. Please. Andrew Lozový, the Radical Party, conveys the word Igor Mosiyczuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u164	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party "If we don't have the strength, we won't get anything, no matter what's best for us. When we have the power, then we will overcome the worst scourge and gain everything we need," said UN Chief Colonel Eugene Konovalec, 125 years from the date of Ukraine's birth today. From June 11th to June 12th, wildfires and the attack by the Aggressor GDR have a very difficult result for Ukraine: four dead Right Sector fighters near the Batovka Mine and two Idar Battalion fighters in Lugansk. In an effort to defiantly adhere to the so - called Minsk Accords, representatives of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine lie to a Ukrainian society that does not exist. I am addressing all the parliamentarians, all the Ukrainians, today at 3 p.m. in the Mayan of Independence, to say good-bye to the fallen fighters of the Right Sector. Come and honor the heroes. Our authorities are cynically lying to Ukrainian society about the real losses on the eastern front, hiding the real number of battle losses. At the same time, cynical barriers to politics continue to run trade and other businesses with occupied territories, particularly the aggressor country as a whole. Which is only worth buying from Bogdan for the school bus program of Russian PAZ. What's worth is that instead of Craze, Ukrainian troops are starting to buy Belarusian Mazes for 75 percent of the Russian caste. Parliament must not be aloof, but rather take control, investigate cases of cooperation between our cynical barriers from politics with the aggressor and their gravel. Parliament must immediately consider a bill on occupied territories with all the resulting consequences. Parliament needs to hear Klimkin's foreign minister about the "ministerial contractors" and the commitments that our authorities have taken on in the course of these so-called negotiations. Parliament should immediately initiate the convening of international negotiations in the Budapest format and, in the case of the refusal of the guarantor countries to ensure territorial integrity, to initiate the restoration of Ukraine's nuclear status.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u165	Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u166	Let's do it briefly, essentially. Of course, the law is required with those Presidential proposals that have been supported. It's about financing a state defense order. That's more, Sergey Volodymyrovich, as well as the planning of the state budget, can't plan without law as planned revenue for the gaming business. Similarly, it is not possible to plan expenses without the income portion that are planned from the confiscation. Take the law and then plan anything. It is not clear who is ahead, whether it is a cognac or a cart. So please, let's think about it in public terms, and if there's no way right now to ensure the execution of state defence procurement measures, let's do it from the general budget, because that's the first priority. And I agree with you here that the defense of the state is a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u167	Victoria Vojtick's Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u169	Taras Shepherd of Self - Help. As we said before, we will definitely support the President's initiatives in this part and in the form of his amendments, and vote now with his proposals as a whole. But I want to remind you in general of the story of how we discussed this bill. He appeared to us in Parliament last June and a year ago we torment him during our first reading, our second reading. We accept it at last in February of this year. And we have to give what's right to the President, who has responded quickly enough, and we have literally in Parliament, within 10 days, had his warnings and observations. And we looked again for four months of time to put up a strategic defense law and a strategic document to shape our own defence orders, and we found time to put in only June. And that's why it's probably a proposal for all of us deputies to make such bills, which are complex and comprehensive for the Ministry of Defence, for our Armed Forces, and in general for the Ukrainian defence forces to put them above them and put them first. And with regard to the financing of the Armed Forces, it's not just that. I also want to support my colleague, Paul Kishkar, that financing the Armed Forces, today should be perhaps even more of a priority than funding teachers or doctors, because today the lives of teachers and doctors depend on the Armed Forces. And I don't think anyone thought of putting budget dependency on a special confiscation, but they thought of putting the Armed Forces on it. And I don't rule out that tomorrow this law can be accused of the outcome of the vote, that it may be the President's veto, that there may be deputies to the Constitutional Court who want to protect Yanukovich's funds, and that means that we will wait for that special confiscation to take place in November, December, or maybe next year, and this year we will not fund the Armed Forces at all? So actually today, this should be our requirement for the Cabinet of Ministers to find a source of funding for today. And in the last two plenary weeks of our session, we have to accept the budget changes, and then we have to confiscate the hole that might appear today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u170	From the People's Front, Blackwall Tetian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u171	A defense order is a priority issue for every MP in this session room, regardless of where the factions are, this deputy, regardless of which committee. We've had a war for two years, and I'll tell you that it's a great shame for all of us that nothing's new in the army in these two years. If something new has come up, it's because of ordinary citizens, thanks to and deputies in this upper room who bought their own heat visions, bought drones, and I thank everyone who did it. But it's a drop in the sea, we're a warring state, we're fighting a very strong opponent, we need to modernize our weapons, we really need them. And I'm going to tell you right now that Russia is a few steps ahead of us, even though we have our only legacy. I'll tell you that any modernized weapon we're unfortunately going to get in combat as trophies. When do we finally start moving? In fact, I'm going to tell you in the state that there's a lot of potential, but you have to take a number of steps, and these series of steps depend on each of us. First. It's a defense order law. Yes, we support him, our faction supports him. The other one. Yes, it has to be filled with real costs. It's extremely important to take the next step here, this is the Law on the Securing of Janukovich's Funds, which is the best thing that can happen. If Janukovic, who actually organized this aggression of Russia, who actually organized this conflict in eastern Ukraine, is that this is exactly the kind of money he stole from the budget, we're going to be making new weapons. And once again, I'm going to notice a very important nuance, a very important nuance. Believe me, those people who stole from the state budget and those who now don't allow these funds to go back to the state budget, what makes them different? They're no different. We have to be the only ones, we have to be the only ones, because it's about our state, we have to fill the state budget, fill our defenses with the money we're going to make new weapons. And I'm talking to all the deputies here, we have to adopt this law, we have to fill it with money, we have to control the cost of this. It's a very big deal, and it's a big deal for all of us. I'm saying that we have to go through each of these steps, I'm going to the Radical Party faction, I'm asking you, temporarily, if you want to unlock the rostrum, vote for the defense order. I know you're in favor of a special confiscation, and I thank you very much. I'm calling on Self-Help again, and I'm asking you to monitor the use of Janukovich's funds, which will go into the state budget, and to support and channel these funds into defense. This is all our business, let's work with the only fist, we're also the front of the fight against the aggression of the Russian Empire. Please. Ukraine is above all else!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u172	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, the word is Hope Savchenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u173	Colleagues, we're here to discuss, and you're confusing two bills. You're talking about the President's amendments that are being made. (what difference does it make) That the defense order cannot go directly, for example, from the battalion commanders, right? in an international context, and they must go through higher state structures, bodies and so on, the Ministry of Defence. It's basically the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do. Because if everyone were to buy, it would be what the President was talking about, we would have won without volunteers, but it would have been longer. We have volunteers working on this front right now, but we need the money that the state spends on this, they have to go, really, through. It's in the normal system, they have to go through the higher control. What's happening now about what's in the army? I drove by and saw that corruption was flourishing. And now the second project you're completing here is a law on special confiscation. Yeah, you're gonna take that money. Where is the fact that they will not be stolen tomorrow? No, you're gonna put them in the state treasury, in the budget, who hasn't learned how to steal from the budget yet? And I have another suspicion that the Special Confiscation Act needs to be taken away from Yanukovic's money, I'm just afraid they're already stolen and the law will just be a fiction. It's my personal, it's my personal. Well, it feels like people I see and don't believe where it's wrong. These laws are necessary, and they need to be voted on. I think that these presidential amendments -- this law that we're talking about right now -- we need to adopt this law with the Presidential amendments. But I'll tell you, it's not a strong law, it's a law. And with regard to special confiscation, this law needs to be read again. Because we can just now cover up what's already done to us and say that we spent it on an army, and no soldier gets a bullet like he never got before. I saw it on the front with my eyes last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u174	Thank you. Did all the factions, the deputized groups, who wanted to speak? Everyone made a statement. Let's move on to the last chapter, "Exhibitions from the Ukrainian National Deputies." I'm asking my fellow members of the People's Deputies to record a statement from the National Deputies. Please. Alexy Sauchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Gerasim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u176	Is Alexi Savchenko speaking or not? Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, during all the performances, we have heard that representatives of all factions support this bill. So once again, when it comes to the security of the state, the support of our boys, the support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard, the Border Guards -- all those protecting our state today -- we must be united and united. Therefore, it is a great request to support this bill, to support the President's proposals and to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, Peter Mikhailovich Vanat, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u179	The faction will unanimously support this law, because it's not just supporting the security of our army, it's new jobs, it's industrial development, it's the development of the country. So I urge everyone to support this bill and vote unanimously for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u180	Please, Yuri Bereza, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! It never ceases to be surprising to the Supreme Council Hall because someone must have forgotten that we have been at war in the east for three years. Someone must have forgotten what's going on in the east. Perhaps someone forgot about the annexation of Crimea and how the last defence ministers put the Ukrainian army in jeopardy. That's why I'm talking about it. That we should definitely support this law. But that's not the main thing. Nevertheless, the Law on Special Seizure and Filling of Military (primarily, military!) The budget is excessive today. And all the discussions that are now trying to impose on us, about control, use, or other issues that are being tried. Other questions that try to get us off track are unacceptable. In fact, you don't have to manipulate what's happening on the front. What is more, we need to understand at one point that today all those present in this room are also accountable to the future state. And it's overwhelming that today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, all the laws that apply, first of all, to the Ukrainian army, that simple Ukrainian soldier who is now sitting in a trench with a gun. Not just, not just break the back of that unscrupulousness, that aggressor country worship. I call upon all, all the apathetic MPs, I call upon the patriots to finally have the law of special confiscation passed in this room, it is necessary for our state today, it is necessary for our defense industry. And in fact, one thing we need to understand is that no international missions will stop the war in the east. In fact, war in the East can stop only a powerful Ukrainian army, a Ukrainian army capable of responding with Ukrainian weapons, no one will bring or think there is a panacea with weapons against Russian aggression. For Russian aggression, the most frightening thing is when we're the only ones in this room, when the only Ukrainian people, for an aggressor, we're too much to talk about and we're looking at different sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u182	Thank you. One Ostap Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u183	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u184	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine I remind you once again that we are not discussing a law on special confiscation. Friends, no objections to 2090a anyone has, this law is necessary, it should be maintained. With regard to this concern about the special confiscation, I would stress that it was a great manipulation of those people who put these expenses in the budget. Well, I'm sorry about the bad association, but you don't plan on spending the family budget on that salary that you don't even have if you're unemployed. So let's get to the bottom of it, introduce a bill to change the state budget, fund state defence procurement. And here I agree with everyone that it's not just the technique that goes to the front. It's the support of our military-industrial enterprises, it's specific jobs, it's the wages and well-being of those citizens who work in these enterprises. You can't plan this kind of expense, you have to plan real revenue for the distribution. So please, let's back up this bill in the hall. No questions about the seizure, I don't think anyone's getting involved. The bill is worth considering, but it is worth closing the gap that will arise in the budget, from the bill that has been passed, not from the one that is planned for consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u185	Thank you, Your Honor. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to say that in five minutes a decision will take place in our room. So I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report, as well as the heads of factions, to maximize the mobilization of MPs. In five minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. And now I give the floor to Hopko Hanni Mikolayovni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u186	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The bill needs to be supported. But on the other hand, we have to pay attention to what we call for parliamentarians to do, parliamentary control over the budget of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff. It is that there is no such practice in Parliament, but there are already plenty of parliamentarians who have to have access and watch the budget planning of the Ministry of Defence, which is involving new technologies. If we look at the defence industry in Ukraine, it is state-owned and closed. And it's the defence industry that could be the engine for restoring the whole economy, because it's part of an industrial complex, and it's in a neglected state. That's why we need to call for a public-private partnership. Last week at a meeting in Washington, D.C., when we discussed how to bring about a military-industrial complex and a defence industry at an exhibition in Washington, D.C., there are a lot of questions about corruption in particular, and the fact that Ucroborprom is not able to reform is not ready to open up for a variety of private-state partnerships. And if we want to create jobs and use our military industrial complex, and I want to remind you that some companies are already in a semi-bankruptcy state, we don't have jobs, we don't have innovation and technology. We see a certain monopoly, a common Soviet tradition. And so I would like to say that Parliament in the parliamentary-presidential republic has a more powerful role to play in order not to embarrass ourselves before the NATO summit, without having an ambassador of representation in Brussels, to simplify export procedures, to open up opportunities for international companies. If we look even in aviation, aircraft construction, there are private partnerships that bring the state, because there's a high added value, there's millions of profits. We are an agrarian state, on the one hand, and we thank God for 7 percent of the world's stocks of black lands, but our future for innovation. And the military-industrial complex and the defence industry is this engine and the locomotive. And so I would like to say that innovations, thanks to those parliamentarians who are taking part, particularly in the NATO Inter-Parliamentary Assembly as Alexius Scripnik, are many others who are working hard to get Ukraine to become a member on the path to Euro-Atlantic integration. Because now that we see Montenegro getting NATO membership, and Ukraine and Georgia can't do that, let's not forget that corruption is exactly the brake on the way to our Eurotransatlantic integration. I therefore urge parliamentarians to exercise and keep in mind their parliamentary control over the budgeting of the Ministry of Defence, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u187	Thank you. And the final closing statement is Barna Oleg Stepanovich, and then we go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Barna Oleg, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u188	Dear friends! The president is responsible for the security of the country. And our job is not to prevent him and the people from defending the state, but to promote all the laws, legislative initiatives, that ensure our security. Enough speculation on the facts. And when we talk about the threat here inside the country, it's just a threat to corruption, bribes for parliamentary inquiries. And when we talk about the state's danger or there's no money, we need to think about how they signed a gas deal in 2009, overpaying Russia every year the next $10 billion for which Russia then rearmed its army, and we put ours on the knees. So now we don't have to speculate on the same Minsk arrangements that were actually the only way to get the world community to stop the attack of the Russian beast, and give our army a buffer for rearming and for shaping. The rest. During the meeting of the President of the World Congress of Ukrainians, Eugene Choli in Lvivska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u189	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u190	This person is not only a great patriot but also an international lawyer, giving a clear indication that there was no alternative to stupidity and unreasonableness, ignoring the Minsk Accords at the time. And I very much ask you not to negotiate with the separatists, but first ask the soldiers, the wounded, the families of the dead, whether they want these negotiations or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. From the group? There's already been a section from the groups. And I asked if they were desirable? There were no desirable ones. And now there was a section from the MPs. All those who had been recorded spoke from the deputies. And we can move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of great importance. At a time when we see Russian occupations on the eastern front, it's very important for us to provide our fighters with advanced weapons, tanks, and a necessary decision for Parliament. So I ask you to take a responsible approach to this vote. In order not to put the vote at risk, dear colleagues, I will place it first on the rating vote if there is no objection. There's no objection, is there, in the hall? If there's no objection, now I'm putting a rating vote to see how high the potential of the hall is. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I ask to take part in the vote and ask for a vote. Please vote. [[13:29:16]] For 245 It's nice that there's responsibility in the hall, it's very important. And I put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (number 2090a) for a committee in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:30:03]] For 258. The law is passed. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the President. And I think we've made a responsible decision and a very important decision. Thirty seconds replica, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you very much for the unity of the Hall and for the support of the President's proposals that really help to strengthen the sovereignty of this state. Thank you very much to the representatives of all the factions, the non-fractional ones, who supported these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart. We now have a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education (2280a). There's just 18 right-handers. So his consideration will be very short, very short. So I ask you very much, everyone, to stay in place so that we can make an important decision under this law. I'm asking all my colleagues to be seated. And we're going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (number 2280a). And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u194	Dear Head, dear colleagues! We have to adopt this bill and finally unlock the work of the National Agency with the quality of education. Dear colleagues, we're voting for everything. Colleagues are coming out of the hall now. I understand no one's interested in higher education here. And I'm going to Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka and his faction to vote in favour of this bill. The bill has already been completed for the second reading, and almost all issues, including article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine, have been resolved. And the Committee on Science and Education, as a result of the drafting of the bill in the second reading, has prepared a comparative table containing 16 rights and proposals from 6 entities under the law of the legislative initiative. The committee included 6 proposals: 1 proposal - partially and 9 - rejected. We also take into account the latest proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputy Semimenah. In particular, please, under the transcript, it's very important. The seventh paragraph of the first paragraph of section 3 and the bill is taken into account in part as follows: "The end of the line for which it is chosen (delegated)". It also takes full account of paragraph 3 of section 3 of the bill and amend paragraph 14 of the bill to read: "Calling the subject who has chosen him (delegated him)". In relation to this paragraph 14, consider paragraph 15. Dear colleagues! At its meeting on May 18, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law and to adopt it in a second reading and as a whole. Dear colleagues, if we support this bill, we're opening a gate to distinguish the functions of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine in the area of accreditation, licensing, protection of candidates' and doctoral dissertations. Dear colleagues, what is now happening is actually not a direct mandatory rule of the Higher Education Act under the law. In fact, since September 1, 2015, diplomas of candidates, doctors of science are illegally issued, and they are given higher degree in illegal licensing and accreditation. As a result of this decision, thousands of people and tens of thousands of students today find themselves in a state of legal nihilism, that is, they may be declared invalid by the courts. So once again, I appeal to all of you to support this bill and to vote for it as a law. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u195	Thank you. It was also the position of the Ministry of Education that we would consider this bill today. I'm asking the amendment authors to prepare, and I'm starting to count the amendments that have been rejected. 1st National Deputy Levchenko. Is it insisting? Yes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u196	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. The granting of the Cabinet of Ministers the right to appoint and suspend members of the National Agency for the quality of higher education proposed in this bill is unacceptable. Because this is contrary to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act’s approach to creating a National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. The body referred to above is independent of executive authority and must ensure quality control of education. This is achieved by the selection of the members by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, each national science academy, a meeting of representatives of the higher educational institutions of Ukraine, a public, municipal and private form of property, a joint representative body of all Ukrainian associations, employers’ organizations, a meeting of representatives of the student self - government bodies, and higher educational institutions from the number of persons receiving higher education. However, it is suggested that the Cabinet of Ministers be empowered to appoint and release those individuals after they have been elected by the above - mentioned authorities. And this will only lead to corrupt risks and reduce opportunities for those who are not involved in it. where everyone was able to see when they elected members to the National Anti-Corruption Agency, which we've already been through. So I propose this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u197	Please comment, Mr. Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u198	Thank you. That's a good point, but what I'm trying to say is that the state should have an impact. Indeed, all 25 members of the National Agency of Quality Education are chosen according to current legislation. And they were chosen. But you know that the blocked work of the National Agency is because the previous Minister of Education Sergei Mironovich Flower said there are three people who are stained. So this bill that we tabled with those amendments just takes into account the balance between the influence of the state and the fact that this independent body is directly elected through the system described in the law. So this is a reasonable compromise between the influence of the State and the independent body described here in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u199	Do you insist on voting? Whoever supports Amendment 1, People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote, please. [[13:37:26]] For-144 144 for. The decision is not made. 2nd Dove, does it insist? No, it doesn't. 3rd Lensky, does he insist? No, it doesn't. Five o'clock, Dove. Don't insist. Six, Lensky. Don't insist. 10th, Lensky. Don't insist. 11th, Dove. Don't insist. 12th, Lensky. Don't insist. 12th, Dove. Don't insist. Dear colleagues! We've been through all the revisions. Is there an insistence on confirmation of the 15th and 16th, Mr. Spiowakovsky? The Self-Help faction insists on confirming the 15th and 16th. Please comment, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! I don't mind being a normal, democratic procedure, let's do it if you think it's necessary, let's put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on confirmation of number 15 and number 16. First, it's an update. Mr. Spiowakovsky, how do we vote? To confirm or not to confirm the advice of the committee for deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u202	Dear colleagues! This is, in our view, a technical question, the position of the committee was here. Now, one minute. Partially counted. This is the order of election of members of the National Agency for the quality of education that is not the subject of this law. This is taken into account by appropriate decisions that will set out the order in which these members are elected. Hence, accounting is by law, in our view, not an object. But if Self-Help as a political force insists on this, I don't mind being voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 15. Anyone who supports the proposal after approval of Amendment 15, please vote. Please vote. [[13:39:59]] For-142 142 for. The amendment is not confirmed. And now I'm also putting amendment 16 to the vote for confirmation. Whoever supports the amendment of the 16 People's Deputies of Lensky, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:40:24]] For 134 134 for. The decision is not made. So we're done talking. Dear colleagues, I'll put a decision to the vote in a minute. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that a decision will now be taken. And I ask the heads of factions to call the deputies into the hall. Please. Are you ready to make your decisions? So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the National Higher Education Agency (No. 2280a) proposed by a second reading committee and in general. Who supports the proposal. Please vote. Vote, colleagues. [[13:41:48]] For 225 Dear colleagues, there were 226, I saw. It just knocked out some kind of card. Let's get together, guys. I ask you to vote for the return to 2280a. Please mobilize. I'm asking you to come into the hall and mobilize. Ready, colleagues? I'm asking you to go back to study 2280a. Please vote carefully. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:42:47]] For 230 Decision taken. And I'm voting again on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (No. 2280a) in second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues. [[13:43:17]] For 225 What's going on, colleagues? Can you explain what's going on? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's some kind of disaster. Are there any political warnings, society? We didn't make it? The card didn't work? I see a quote from Bereza. Society, I'll put it back up again, but this will be the last time. I ask you to be careful and watch your cards. I repeat, I will no longer bet on the return. I'm putting the vote back to 2280a, and I'm asking you to vote on who supports this proposal. Please return to 2280a. Please vote for the return. [[13:44:23]] For 224 There is no political will. Is it possible that we will be united in the offer of a second reading? Dear colleagues, I'm just one minute, one minute. I'll report in five minutes when the vote is in five minutes, then I'll report in three minutes. This is the full responsibility of political factions. I'm betting once again on a return, I'm betting on a return to study 2280a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 2280a, please vote. [[13:45:25]] For 227 We're back. Right now, the man is coming out of the hall. This is the Higher Education Act. The law's back on Higher Education, that's good. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the National Agency and ensuring the quality of higher education (2280a) as proposed by a second reading committee and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:46:24]] For 230 The law is passed. Congratulations to the authors, and welcome to the committee for its quality work. Dear colleagues, we now have a question of getting into the agenda of the day session. There's a lot of questions, at least some of them we can consider right now. And that's why I'm asking everyone to continue their work. And I'm moving on to a list of the bills that we have before the agenda for the day session. The first is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service, No. 4689. Anyone who supports the proposal to include it in the agenda of the session, please vote. "On military duty and military service." Please vote Colleagues, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[13:47:34]] For 197 The decision is not made. Next draft of the Act amending Chapter I of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine on the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine on the introduction of Ukrainian legislation. (No. 4739). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the 4739 agenda, please vote. Please, 4739, please vote. [[13:48:17]] For-187 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I may then turn to you. We talked to all the factions that we were here today when our European friends of parliament and Cox's mission to Ukraine, and in the morning we saw that we were finally going to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our partners expect us to make that decision. We've had discussions with all the political factions. By the way, I'm asking you, the Radical Party is a party to this decision. Oleg Valeriovich is gone. Dear colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session, colleague. There are five bills, there are alternatives among them, there are authors in the hall. Come on, I'm asking you very much, let's go into the hall and make a responsible decision, to get into the agenda of the day session. I stressed that what was to be said about the reforms in Brussels was to be given a way and a step. That's why I'm talking. Jaroslav Moskalenko! Mr. Jaroslav, I ask you only to support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Colleagues! "Peter Dusty Block"! People's Front! Self-help! A radical party! I'd like your support, colleagues. Include in the agenda of the day session. I'm asking you to come into the hall and mobilize. Please inform the secretariat of the Supreme Council that a vote will take place. Ready, colleagues? Please support the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4696, 4696-1, 4696-2, 4696-3, 4696-4. We will demonstrate the European direction of our reform. We'll support and put the day session in order. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Yes, all with alternatives. Please vote. [[13:50:41]] For 185 Dear colleagues! We can count on a sufficient mobilization in the room, put it again? Dear colleagues! I've been approached by a few factions who just don't have any votes in the room to make a decision to review those bills, and there's about 40 of them, about 40 bills to be considered after the break. Let us consult with you, colleagues. I have an offer for you. Look, after the break, we may not have enough votes at first either. Perhaps after a break, we could move on to the next question of where is the second reading. And when the hall is mobilized, then we would return to the agenda of the day session. If there's no objection in the hall, then at 4 o'clock we'll start the bill that we have in our second reading, which is also very important and supported by virtually all factions, and then we'll start the section "inclusion in the agenda of the day session." I want to remind you, there are laws of all factions and there are all of them interested in being included in the agenda of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m0.u204	Okay. There is a request to vote on those who stood. And I promise you, I will put those who have already voted to the vote, so we will put them to the vote again. I'm asking you to just get ready, mobilize your factions so that after lunch we can do the same productive work as before lunch. So, dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. According to the Rules, I'm going to call it a two-hour break. At 16 o'clock we meet again in this room and continue our work. Please, at 4:00, we're definitely meeting here in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
