ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that we are about to begin our work. Please. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Good morning. Dear colleagues, please register. Please register. [[10:04:52]] 300 national deputies registered. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to our government. Mr. Volodymir. [[Applause]] Also today is the birthday of the National Deputies: Vitalia Dmitrovitch Barwinenko, Andrija Sergiyovitch Lozov, Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski, Viktor Josephovich Razwadowski. Welcome to our friends' birthday. They are successful in the legislative field of our work. Also, colleagues, I think today we'll be able to welcome our journalists, because June 6th in Ukraine is a journalist's day. And I told our colleagues in the morning that during the hybrid war that Russia is waging against us, journalists in front of us are giving up Ukraine to win no less than Ukrainian military. And on behalf of all the parliamentarians, all the deputies and all the Ukrainians, I would like to thank you for the self-loyal work that journalists are doing, and also those who are on the front and who are highlighting the activities of our soldiers, and who are highlighting our struggle for independence against the Russian occupation in eastern Ukraine. And thank you for how you actively explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to inform you that three and a half thousand journalists are accredited in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, and 150 of them are foreign journalists from 20 countries around the world. This is one of the highest indicators among all parliaments in the world and perhaps few in the world are as active as in Ukraine. And this is obviously a success for both journalists and for us MPs who understand that our work is constantly under your very watchful lens. And so I would like to ask all the MPs to applaud our friends of journalists, our parliamentary journalists. Welcome to the professional journalist's day. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Today, according to article 229 of the Supreme Council Rules from 10 to 11 a.m., an hour of questions to the government is held. But we have consulted with the Prime Minister and there is a request from the government that we start with questions and answers because the Prime Minister of Ukraine should attend an important international meeting. And if you don't have any objections, we'll start with questions, and then there'll be speeches from government representatives like we agreed, and we'll make a presentation on the Conciliation Council of Proposals, today will be by Lila Mikhailnovna Greenevich, also by Maxim Nephrodov, but in the second part of the "hours of questions to the government." Colleagues, no objection? All in favor. Then there will be a question mark. I ask everyone who would like to ask questions, take their seats, and prepare for the recording. I remind you, one minute for every oral question and two minutes for the answer. Vladimir Borisovich, can we start the discussion? Dear colleagues, please record the questions of the Ukrainian National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please record. Cupry Vitaly Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Parasuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u3	Vladimir Borisovich, I want you to hear me now. I don't think you need to explain what happened in Lviv, the tragedy and its consequences. Now, at the moment, the Gribovic garbage dump is really, really closed, but all the garbage is shipped in reserve dumps, people from these dump sites are also indignant, because you can't solve the problem at the expense of smaller dumps. I wonder, first of all, how do you, as Prime Minister, see a solution to this problem? And secondly, I'd like you to give orders to the dead guys who were covered by this avalanche of garbage, and to their families, they were given state compensation, and the boys were rewarded with orders, because they were really heroes, they were fighting fire and they died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u4	The noble fellows of the people's deputies, the noble Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! In fact, what happened in Lviv is a terrible tragedy. I think there's no secret to anyone that dumpsters in Ukraine are in a totally terrible state. And so it can't be, because it's a matter of great importance, it's an environmental situation, and it's dealing with solid household waste. In my own experience, I had exactly the same range that's in Lviv, in such a terrible state, but in a few years, we were able to get the system there without State support, to degass it, to recuperate it. I think it's a very agricultural issue, and it's a long time ago, but we have a very terrible situation today. I believe that doing the recuperation of this polygon is absolutely normal and real, and that's why it's a question of the local authorities of Lviv. If there is a need for government assistance, I am ready and personally, and colleagues are willing to provide this assistance to help resolve this issue quickly, but it is the authority of the local authorities. I'd like you to understand and know that. Government or government doesn't run this polygon, it doesn't recuperate, it doesn't affect its functioning in any way. So I'm going to have the Ministry of Ecology study everyone. The situation of all ranges in Ukraine. This is a matter to be settled. And I think that in the context of financial decentralization today, it's possible to do this with the resources of local budgets, local councils -- there's no problem. If anyone doesn't know, I can tell them on my fingers how to do it, and what needs to be done to take away the filter, to degass these polygons, to install special gas equipment, to produce electricity, and to supply it to the adjacent areas. So it's a very agricultural question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u5	Please, one minute. Let the Prime Minister finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u6	Thank you. This question is purely a matter of nature, and it is obvious here. If the family needs help and the city council has not provided it, we too are willing to help and support it. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Eutusek Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Borislav Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u9	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, I have three questions for you. First question. Two weeks ago, I asked you what's going on with the fuel prices? You promised to take care of that. And yesterday, I saw that the prices for some of the ASAs went up again to half an oven. I'm afraid if I ask you a question, they're reacting in the wrong way. Secondly, please tell me, are we continuing the moratorium on land sales since January 1, 2017? And thirdly, please tell me, two days ago, the situation in Odessa was very sad when they wanted to destroy more than 11,000 bicycles. Instead of handing them over to children’s homes, they wanted them destroyed. Please tell me, what's happening to them now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. Right after you spoke to me, I told you that we turned to the Antimonopoly Committee as a government. We're worried about what's going on. With gas prices, with oil products. In fact, the Antimonopoly Committee carried out the work and completed it, and now there will be legal proceedings. But what is the problem? You're right, the problem is that the Antimonopoly Committee's response will have a result in four to six months. And here, we need the support of Parliament to make changes to special legislation that will enable us to react very quickly and to regulate this situation. But we're going to get this thing done and we're going to prove that some of the conspiracies were, and this is the issue of the Antimonopoly Committee, and I think we're going to see it soon. As for the moratorium on land sales. As you know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided in 2016 to continue the moratorium on land by the end of 2016. This will continue to be the issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which decision it will make in 2017. But we have a bill here registered for land circulation. No decision on the moratorium can be made until we understand all the nuances of dealing with the earth. Otherwise it will all be, sorry, but, well, terrible situation. Therefore, the first is to define the Land Circumstances Act, to be determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine what to do next. But the issue of the earth is extremely sensitive, we need to consult agrarians, owners, understand what they want, and continue to make decisions in a consolidated and shared manner. As for bicycles, I was commissioned to deal with this issue now. It's a foolish thing to do, to dispose of 11,000 bicycles, well, you don't need a lot of brains. But I still have suspicions that there are schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u12	I have a suspicion that there are schemes that have been implemented on more than one occasion. So it's like confiscation, and then through markets, the realization and documentary confirmation that they're being disposed of. So now we're getting much deeper. On the one hand, we need to save our children's bicycles, and on the other hand, we need to deal with these schemes and give it to those who tried to use these schemes to smuggle different goods into Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Korczyk Vitaly Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u14	Please pass the word to my brother Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u15	Dear Head, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, I address you personally. Today, Ukraine is struggling with the Russian Federation not only with weapons but also with information. And here we have a bunch of questions. We have a situation where TV channels are creating demanding plots, for example, for heads of state-owned enterprises that have robbed billions and from that money are ordering programs that whitewash them. We have journalists who almost daily provide distorted, false information, do not refute and fill the information space with mistrust to power, to the activities of parliament, to the activities of MPs. In this information space. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you! It's very important. This information space is almost impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u16	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u17	In the information space, it's almost impossible to fight the Russian Federation. Moreover, our volunteer projects, such as the Peacekeeper and Informnapalm site, have made us understand more about the enemy than our Ministry of Information Policy. And in doing so, we have a deputy minister of information policy who, I have reason to believe, has united the journalist community, engaged foreign media, turned the G7 ambassadors and tarnished the work of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u18	Mr. Andriy Anatoliyovich, I understand that we have very serious challenges, including the information war that an aggressor is waging against us, using various tools, including internal ones, including the media, perhaps under control. But whatever we think of you, there is a fundamental value -- freedom of speech. And I think that we have to keep it, which is fundamentally important for any democratic society, and we have to respond by actually social instruments to these things. Of course, if this is going to undermine our sovereignty, if this is going to undermine territorial integrity, we need to react very clearly. But as far as freedom of speech is concerned, our task with you is to create conditions under which freedom of speech will not be oppressed. On the other hand, I think that probably both in the media and in the journalistic environment, we need to pay more attention to those media that probably don't consider freedom of speech to be valuable and perhaps perform some sort of order material. On the other hand, I would like to give the floor to Minister Yuri Stecz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Mr. Andrey, I'd like to ask after the completion of your work today at the Supreme Council that we meet with you and discuss the first two points, and I think it will be a quick response. As for the latter, the working group will start working on Monday. If the facts of a violation of the law are revealed, this deputy minister will be released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u20	Thank you. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u21	Please give the word to my colleague, Dudenkov Alexander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to address this question directly to you because, unfortunately, I have not received an answer from the Minister of Social Policy on many occasions in my communications to the Social Insurance Fund. There is a discriminatory situation in Ukraine where enterprises with formal registration in the Non-Controlled Territory in Donetsk, Luhansk lists salaries to their employees, single social contributions that are targeted, using formal grounds. There are currently no prohibitions in the law, and these funds refuse to pay to those enterprises that operate throughout Ukraine, these social payments for their employees. At the same time, they ignore the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, which recognized the illegal non-implementation of any social payments to the population. These funds are targeted and are intended exclusively for citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u23	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u24	I have a request for you. Take personal control of this issue and when the administrative barrier is removed and the money is transferred to the insurers to compensate the insurance payments to the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. I think that everyone present in the Ukrainian National Deputies Hall and members of the government is as painful as the social payments to people. On the one hand, though, we realize that it is physically impossible to pay in an uncontrollable territory. This is a huge problem and a challenge for all of us. So once we regain control, everything that has not been paid will be paid to every citizen of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u27	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u28	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I have a question for Energy Minister Igor Stepanovich. Igor Stepanovich, now it's a very difficult situation for coal mining to go to different DPs. They're calling me, they're writing. This has a significant impact now on their further work, on salary payments, on local budgets. It is a very important request that we deal with this and make every effort to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u29	Perhaps the amount of attention given to coal miners has not been paid to any ministry. Even today, when we met at the Supreme Council, we had, from the very morning, trade unions with Selidowugel and the chief trade union, Mr. Turmanov, and we had been talking about this for hours. Also, from the very morning I was communicating, as the Levites asked the question, and I was already talking to Mr. Andrey. Now we're opening them up with the appropriate routes for loading into Kaluska TEC, which is about 35 to 40,000 tons that they can ship. And in principle, we can go to some extent to close wages. But what I want to say today is, without the support of the coal industry, there will be problems with the season. And I thank you, Mr. Michael, for registering this law. I fully support you in this, and I think the government will find the funds to actually make that difference in output. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, Sergey Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u31	As I join the greetings of journalists, I pass the word to a former colleague at Svetlana Zalitschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u32	Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! I have the first question for the Foreign Minister. Paul Anatolyevich, there has recently been a lot of speculation about the risk of delaying visa liberalisation for Ukraine. Especially in the light of reports that negotiations on Georgia for a week have been postponed by the European Commission. Would you please inform the MPs what the MSA has done? Do you see risks, or can MPs help to keep these negotiations from slowing down? And the second question to the Prime Minister. Volodymyr Borisovich, in the days leading up to Journalist Day, there is an international scandal about the Peacekeeper base, which teaches journalistic contacts of Ukrainian internationals on this site. Yesterday the G7 also asked the Ministry of Habakkuk to resolve this conflict. What actions are being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to take these things off?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u33	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u34	I wanted to. Still, I'll finish. Question: What are the actions used by the Cabinet of Ministers to take this international one down? Is that a risk to the country's international image? Perhaps the question is the same with the minister of Habakkuk and the minister of information. Please inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u35	Thank you so much for asking that question. Three key moments. First of all, I don't see any direct risks. At present, the European Union wants to adopt a special mechanism for responding to migration risks that may arise in connection with the introduction of a visa-free regime. Such a mechanism is approved by the European Council. And in order to move forward, such a mechanism is now being considered and should be approved by the European Parliament. We are working with the European Parliament to make the report on Ukraine as soon as possible and as positive as possible. And this is what we really need the help of our Parliament. And the second moment is for this mechanism to be approved as soon as possible. One second. We're constantly working not only with foreign ministries, but really less with them, but with ministries of internal affairs. Last night in Berlin, I met with the Minister of Interior of Germany, last week with the Minister of Interior of France. And we have a vision of how we should move on. But once again, we need Parliament's help in contact with the parliaments of EU member states on the clear vision that we have fulfilled all our obligations. And the second is that we don't need any political packing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u36	As far as the journalist's data is concerned. The government is concerned about this issue, it's very unforgivable, we have a discussion about how we can solve this issue. Once we have our decisions, we will be sure to let the deputies know. Yesterday an appropriate statement was made public by the Ministry of Information Policy. We're dealing with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u38	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. Dear Stephen Timothy, I have repeatedly addressed you on the subject of the work of the Lower National Engineering Company. The thing is, essentially, it's a unique enterprise that repairs all kinds of engines, tech-engines. Sadly, though, for almost two years it has not received orders from the Ministry of Defense. The final order, which was one million and a hundred thousand, has not yet been calculated by the Ministry of Defense. At the same time, the Ministry is trying to expand its power literally in the field after repairing engines and any kind of technology right next to this plant. So once again, I call on you to pay attention to the work of this company and still to load it with work, because once again, once again, a unique enterprise for our country is unique and relevant in terms of military aggression. And it's also a place of work for tens of ninjas that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. I'd like to say that I fully support you, the factory is very important, we're ready to place a defense order there, but for that we need money, at least, 3.6 billion that we haven't got in the budget this year and we can't fully implement it. Only after the proper decision has been taken by the Supreme Council will we have the opportunity to complete the procurement and manufacture of the weapons and technology that we have ordered for this year and to place the orders at this plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u40	Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u41	The issue of privatization of state-owned insolvent enterprises, which is a burden on the budget, is relevant. In addition, a number of sectors, which were formerly the main contributors to the state and local budgets, and now, because of the improper management of the professional departments and ministries, have become insolvent, question the professional competence of the leaders of these areas, at best; and in the worst case, the issue of criminal responsibility for the artificial conduct of these enterprises into bankruptcy for the purpose of "admission". So the question. Do you, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Profiles, think it's time to reject the idea of previous government officials to sell alcohol and, instead, to end that cynical era with the appointment of the director of Easterspirt? Two. Take note of the proper professional management of the company’s activities and of each enterprise. Three. Returning the status of a legal person to alcohol factories to ensure their proper production and thus eliminating corruption schemes and corrupt administrative influences and the importance of centralized governance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. With regard to the Director's Competition, after the government's statement that we will not accept the unlawful decisions regarding the termination of the competitions and so on, the judiciary and the fair judges are starting to make completely honest decisions, and this decision was cancelled, so the competition will be. This is the first position that is very good. As far as the subject of alcohol factories is concerned. For whom in this room the secret is that spirit factories are a huge source of corruption. Raise your hand, who doesn't know? Does everyone know? Everybody knows. There are several countries in the world that regulate this sector at all. I'm not going to cover corruption and I'm not going to do it, and I think most of the Ukrainian Supreme Council deputies in this room aren't going to do it either. So a public competition for governance, or a public sale, or other forms that will destroy corruption in this area, we will do and we will welcome, I know your position, the high-ranking national MP, on the principle position of fighting corruption. We're going to find a solution that will allow us once and for all to get rid of this corrupt dining room, the left alcohol and everything. I've given the task to the law enforcement authorities to stop this vacchanal, and today they're taking it seriously enough. Dozens and hundreds of tons of alcohol are confiscated throughout the country, which is totally illegal, regulated and our task is to bring order here once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u43	Nechayev Alexander Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Nechayev Alexander, "The Opposition Block." Dear Vladimir Borisovich, on Wednesday most of the television channels showed a report about the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which presented the new Director General of Ukrzalznice, whose salary will officially be 463,000 dollars, in addition to the salary bonus. So the director of the Railroads will receive a million dollars of salary per month. Please answer my question to pensioners, doctors and teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u45	Now the Minister of Infrastructure will answer, and then I'll tell you about the Railroad. Please, Vladimir Omelyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u46	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to inform you that yesterday the new head of the Crucifixions had a meeting with the National Deputies of the Transport Committee, where all the questions were discussed. As far as you're concerned about his salary, it's not true about these amounts at this stage. Secondly, I would like to point out that all the leaders of the Crucibles, unfortunately, have been released with massive accusations of corruption and bribery. I hope that the new manager, when he gets a decent salary, will put a dot in this line of abuse and will be able to bring the Crucifixion to an entirely European level of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u47	Now, I'd like to tell you. The Crucifixion for decades has been the dining room for those who sat on the Crucifixion. I want to assure you that my understanding of the billions that came out of there is not hundreds of thousands, but billions! - for decades. Only the ambitious plan of the new manager tells us that we will save in the first year of management – attention! - Seven billion dollars. This is my answer to pensioners, doctors and teachers! No one is allowed to steal from state enterprises. The Ukrainian Railway is to provide quality transportation, comfortable and convenient for Ukrainian citizens, and to make money for modernization: mobile warehouse, rails, security. The Soviet railway must remain in the past. Our railway must become a modern European enterprise. This is possible, and I want to encourage you to watch the development of the Ukrainian railway. And you'll see that after paying a few hundred thousand dollars, we're in addition to the billions that have been walking in our pockets today. Not today, but in the last few years, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u48	Walking, passing the word to Yatzenk, please, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, for many weeks now, I've been trying to solve the issue of providing children with cochlear implants, that is, implants they're supposed to get under 5 years of age, or else a person will be deaf. And I already addressed Rosenk, last week of the session, I was addressing you two weeks ago, and there was a council, but unfortunately there are no such practical steps. I have a specific question, we're going to take changes to the budget in June, can we put this money on the children of these -- that's about 70 million dollars? And these are 230 children in Ukraine today. To resolve this question, for it is human fate and people have not become disabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u50	Dear National Deputy Yatzenko, at the request of the Prime Minister, a meeting took place, you remember, we were talking to you, there was a working meeting at the Ministry of Health, with your participation, with the participation of the leadership of the National Academy of Medical Sciences and the Ministry of Health. The calculations were made and we asked to take these costs into account in the 2016 budget review, because this is a really important problem that requires an urgent solution. I keep this matter under my personal control.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u51	Pinzenic is passing it on to Jurinec. Yeah? Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u52	Oksana Jurinec, 117th constituency, city of Lviv. Vladimir Borisovich, the first question is from the mountains. The mushroom season, the berries, no vaccine, no snake bites, and this is a major danger that several Carpathian regions are paying attention to. And the second question about the dumpster. The garbage dump in Lviv is the second since New York City in the world, founded in 1956. Today, after the death of three people, it has ceased to be a problem only in the city of Lviv. Today, this garbage dump actually caught the attention of those boys who saved Ukraine from this fire and probably half the world. Why is this so important? This is important to create in government a government commission headed by the Minister of Environment, Ostap Semierak, to keep this matter under control. Because it's an environmental issue today, and not to mention that it's just an element that fire can destroy a lot of other people today, because it's in the air, it's forbidden to open windows.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u54	Dear National Deputy Jurinec, for vaccines and serums. I want to inform you that in the last two weeks, we have registered three vaccines, including snake bites, butulin anatoxin. Now, going to the government's hour, I signed an order for a confessional vaccine to be registered. I'm also informing you that during the last week, a number of vaccines were delivered to the regions. Sulphur from snakebite and butulin anatoxin. And today, we've sent a letter to the departments and health authorities asking us to do so, based on what we've registered these drugs, to find opportunities and to buy in the necessary amount of vaccines and raw materials to buy these important issues that you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u55	And, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u56	Thank you. There was another question about the solid household waste range near Lviv. I gave a commission -- it was a government decision, a government commission -- to start dealing with this issue with the minister of ecology. The government's proposals will be made by the minister, and the government will make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. One last question. Rosenblatt. The spores pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u58	Rosenblatt. Arsen Borisovich, Mr. Minister Arsen Borisovich, I am addressing you. Obitište village, Olevski district, Žitomirsk district. Six o'clock in the morning, shooting, firearms, people in the hospital hurt, four cars turned over and everything. Burstin wars continue to exist. I want to ask you, is there a possibility today to protect people, to protect all those who live in these territories who are fighting for their land today, who don't want to see bandits and all those who are "breathing" illegal amber today? Andrew Volodymyrovich, I'd like to see you. For a year and a half, we can't solve the legal issue. the solution to the issue of amber production. I'm asking you very much: let's put an end to this. If, indeed, there is work to be done, there is a bill to be decided today, let's do it. It's human life, it's human blood. And I want us all to understand who this blood is for, and for whom it's a huge cost that's going on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Was that a question to me? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u60	There is only one answer to that question. Yes, the possibility and the need to protect the Ukrainian people from the use of the willful is, of course. And my belief that we can't do anything about amber mafia without a legislative initiative here in Parliament. And that's true, too. And that's what you have to do, ter-mi-o-o. We have suggestions, the Prime Minister held a meeting on this issue. I think a comprehensive proposal will be in Parliament next week. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u61	Thank you. I want you to know that one of my first orders was to create a task force on this issue of amber. The working group was working on a bill, taking into account the experience of our European neighbours, who were having a similar discussion. The last step is to agree with the government of the bill. I am convinced that in the very near future, perhaps even next week, a harmonized bill will be put into the hall, and we will be able to solve this shameful problem for Ukraine together. Thank you. I give you my word, that was the last question, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u62	Thank you. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Distinguished People's Deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for your questions. I want to inform you that every question you ask is on the table, and we're working on what's coming out of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. I would like, in part, to thank you, my noble fellow national MPs, for a very fruitful plenary week and for making a decision and for the Ukrainian Drug Act that will give you an opportunity. I think it's our common victory when we demolish the market, when people get quality drugs at real prices that are going to be lower than today. We will continue to work on demonolysis and deregulation of this market. We'll do everything we can to support the national drug producer, and there won't be any problems. But the main thing is that we destroyed this terrible monopoly with you when people were just limited in the treatment of quality drugs. Next position. I would like to thank you for supporting the government's initiatives on laws that interact with the International Monetary Fund. Yesterday, too, a number of such laws were passed, and we will ask you and the next plenary to support the government, which is extremely important for our macroeconomic stability. And one more thing. I'd like to say thank you for yesterday's decision to start a major reform of the judiciary, the judiciary and the constitutional changes, and the new Judicial Act. This is the beginning of very important changes that will allow, including the restoration of the national economy. Anyone who wants to invest money in Ukraine wants guarantees in the workplace, and such guarantees can be given by the Ukrainian judicial system. So once again, I want to thank you, to testify to my respect, and to say that the government is ready for fruitful cooperation with the Ukrainian Supreme Council deputies, with factions, with groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm afraid I have to leave the hall now. The First Vice Prime Minister is staying and will be with you, complete the "hour of questions to the government". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Thank you for your input. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that there are now young ambassadors of peace in the room from various parts of Ukraine, they are on the balcony with us, five of these children are from the ATO zone, from Volnovaha, from the Volnovakh region. [[Applause]] Ukrainian schoolchildren have become participants in the International Social Project Children for Peace Worldwide. Recently they were in the Vatican, visited the Vatican, and prayed with Pope Francis for peace in Ukraine, around the world. Welcome. You've won. We welcome you from all over Parliament. Dear colleagues, I have a word with you. I'm asking the government to stay, only the Prime Minister has left, we continue "the hour of questions." And now the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich, is invited to speak. Lilia Mikhailna, you have 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u64	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. Hello, I welcome here schoolchildren, children in the Ukrainian Parliament. And it's really nice that they're here because this week we've been celebrating Child Protection Day, which the whole world has been celebrating for 60 years on June 1. This is a very important date, for it reminds us of the rights of those who unfortunately cannot protect themselves. Clearly, this should be a systematic and hard work to protect children from time to time. Not in vain, psychologists say that every neglected child problem will eventually become an adult and thus a social problem. I would like to point out that child protection is a particularly relevant topic for Ukraine, since the aggression of the neighbouring state has caused tens of thousands of children to face the threat of violating their rights, particularly those of education. The Ministry, together with local government authorities, has taken all possible measures to ensure that children are properly trained, who from the temporarily occupied territories of the country and the uncontrolled areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, children who live in those areas and who want to continue or obtain general education, to continue their studies in higher vocational and technical institutions, have been able to do so. And I want to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we have already carried out a number of measures to implement those laws that have been passed in these walls to make the system of vocational and technical higher education available to children from Crimea and children from the uncontrollable territory of Donbas. In particular, at the request of Ukrainian national deputy Mustafa Djemilev, we set up an additional session for graduates who cannot pass external independent evaluation tests during the main additional session due to the fact that their exams there in Crimea are up until June 30, so we carried them over and created another additional session from July 4. And with the opportunity, we want to warn them to register, those who want to attend this session by June 20 in the regional evaluation centers remotely. In addition to this category of Crimean children, there are children who will not be able to participate in external independent evaluation, and it is for them that ten universities of Ukraine will create educational centres of Crimea-Ukraine. This. The list of these centres will be published on the Ministry's website and there these children will be able, first and foremost, to gain access to higher education, to confirm their documents, to pass exams, to state summary tests from Ukrainian language and history, to profile entrance exams and to have a chance to join Ukraine's higher education institutions. So these children in the area occupied by the Crimea have such additional opportunities. But it was also important for us to care for those children living in the uncontrollable territory of Donbas. And for these children in the walls of all the evacuated universities and universities in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk, we're opening educational centers called Donbas-Ukraine. And in these educational centers, these children will also be able to access them so that we can provide them with appropriate documents related to the acquisition of general secondary education and so that they can pass entrance exams to this very range of universities. So children who have made an external independent evaluation can go to any university in the country; those who are in the pre-trial exams are only in a list where there are these Donbas-Ukraine educational centers. So once again, I want to confirm that the Ministry of Education and Science stands in firm positions that we will have to reintegrate these territories into Ukraine. To that end, we need children and young people to receive education in Ukraine and to grow up to be patriots of the country. Dear colleagues, I would also like to inform you about the events that have now taken place in connection with the completion of the school year. It was last week that graduation evenings were held throughout the country. And we gave all the kids the test results in time. Now there's going to be a state-wide summary appraisal for 9th grade graduates, and so there's going to be over 327,000 graduates. And everything goes smoothly, without breaking up, and they get their papers. External independent evaluation continues. At present, there has been an external independent appreciation of Ukrainian language and literature, mathematics, and Ukrainian history. Practically everything happens without special excesses. The only unpleasant trend that I claim to be the minister of education is that fewer children choose mathematics as an object. And we need to take very seriously the question of improving the quality of mathematical and natural education in Ukraine. Children who are not graduates today on vacation and for their parents, this presents additional challenges to their children’s whereabouts, since most parents work in June. And as we met with the wishes of our parents, we asked the local authorities to open up the school camps. I mean, these camps are not designed to heal children, because it's obvious that you can't cure children on asphalt. But these camps are called upon to make sure that these children are supervised during the day so that they can feed, indeed, this diet can be done either at the expense of local authorities or at the expense of parents. But they are under pedagogical supervision, and they can take part in tours. In addition, such summer camps we open more than 10,000 in Ukraine, half of them, 5,000 and a half will open up language camps, where children will also further improve their foreign language, which is very important to us and we are grateful that many volunteers have come to us as part of the Go Global initiative to teach our children English. I would also like to inform the national deputies about these. That communication with the local authorities about the preparations for the new school year. As we know, we are now continuing to create a network of support schools just to improve access for high school seniors to quality education. And in this work, we're going to create by September 1st, we're going to have the function of the new 184 support schools, and we're going to have 600 branches. By now, 10,000 students will be taken to the resistance schools in Ukraine, and 11 thousand more students will be brought up from September 1st to those schools, which will be resilient. And to that end, we are now purchasing more than 180 school buses for which tenders have already been announced or are planning to be announced, by local authorities and administrations. But I want to remind them that they've got 600 million dollars from the previous government, and now they have to report their own funds and make these purchases. They also need to take care of repairing 3,000 miles of drive to these schools, because if a new bus goes on a very low-quality road, it's clear that we're going to lose such a new bus from our school car park very quickly. At the same time, we're buying textbooks for the 4-7th grade, and we're working on timely purchases of textbooks for the 8th grade. Dear colleagues! I want to raise another problem in the country today, given the relevance of the issue of protecting children's rights, which is the problem of inclusive education for children with special needs. Ukraine ratified the UN Convention on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities. And according to this convention, every child with disabilities has the right to have access to education as close as possible to a place of residence. Today, only a small fraction of our children are covered in inclusive education. Sadly, society in general is not yet ready to recognize the full rights and opportunities of people with disabilities. And very often we face the opposition and unwillingness of teachers and even parents, to having such children to create conditions for them to study in public schools. I want to turn from this rostrum to the local self-government bodies, the national MPs in this room, the National Majority Deputies, and ask that, in conjunction with the Ministry of Education and Science, you help us to make these resilient schools, which will be established in Ukraine, also become inclusive schools so that children in rural areas who today actually have a violation of their rights to access inclusive education, have schools where they can integrate and learn properly. I want to give you a little bit of statistics. So far, we have 33,000 students with developmental disabilities in 290 special public education schools and boarding schools. And only 382 special educational institutions with inclusive and internal education are working today, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the legislative base. I want to remind you that you and I have made a decision here and about the assistant teacher who may be in the inclusive classes today. But there is a problem that the local authorities do not always finance these additional rates, thus violating the rights of children. You and I made a breakthrough change when we set the 2.5 coefficient for those costs that come after a child into an inclusive environment in such inclusive classes. It is important for us that each of the national MPs together and the Ministry of Education, for their part, monitor that local authorities carry out their work to uphold the rights of these children and create opportunities for inclusive education in places, using the potential of today's legislation. And to conclude another topical event this week, about which I want to inform all the Ukrainian national deputies. On Wednesday, parliamentary hearings were held to discuss the interaction of the modern labour market and vocational education in Ukraine. However, the main theme of these hearings was the financing of vocational and technical education, which was due to the adoption of the 2016 budget. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a draft Education Law ready for rereading. And we also have a proposal under the Vocational Education Act, which we agree with the Ministry of Finance, which actually repeats the proposals of the Education Act, which is already ready in Parliament. It is very important for us that the whole next budget process be shaped in accordance with the new Education Act, which states that vocational and technical education cannot be financed solely by local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u65	Please finish for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u66	a says there should be a grant for general secondary education, a regional order, there should be a state programme to support the professions of national importance, as well as the involvement of business for professional preparation for procurement, for large taxpayers. So once again, I ask and appeal to Parliament, please consider this law, because it is an extremely important, fundamental law on which other initiatives of the government will be based. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u67	Thank you, Minister. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine Maxim Nephrodov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u68	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, last year, thanks to our joint work, the Public Procurement Act was passed, according to which Ukraine joined the elite club of developed countries, where all purchases are translated into modern electronic format, which allows for much more efficient conduct, increased competition, fight corruption and jobs, and purchased transparent and accountable for any Ukrainian citizen. I'd like to inform you about what we've done since then, what we've accomplished and what we're planning for the future. I would like to remind you that the law is being enacted in stages. Since April 1, it has come into force for central government authorities and large state enterprises. Since August 1, it has become mandatory for local authorities and utilities, according to August in Ukraine, there will be no purchases that are used in paper. What is done by the Ministry? First of all, we've relaunched a system that is fully in line with the law. We call it "Transparent 2.0" with an updated function. What's included here? First of all, electronic document exchange, that means there's no paper left in paper form that's not in a system that you can't find there, for example, you can't see there if you're interested in how the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Economics or the Kiev City Administration is doing their purchases, and so on. Much easier work for all participants because there is automatic disclosure of information, automatic generation of protocols and messages, automatic reporting, and so on. This means that the work that had been done manually by the solicitors of the solicitation committees was the probability of error or error in the paws, as it were. Now that's not possible, because the system does it for them. And, of course, their work, their conscientious buyers, is also relieved. Electronic charges have been introduced. This means that if any participant believes that his rights are violated, he can directly press the "send" button in the system. The buy-in is blocked, the complaint is sent to the Antimonopoly Committee. Because now we don't have to rely on postage pigeons, we've managed to cut the complaint deadline almost three times. This means that the likelihood of a tender trolling declines and increases the likelihood that honest suppliers whose rights are violated will have a chance to protect them. We've finally made normal competition between the access interfaces that state purchasing systems have already accredited 8 trading venues for any taste: from very small to very large. Another 7 are in the process of accreditation, which I hope they will complete within one or two months. This means that if any public purchaser or any private supplier has a complaint about the quality of the work, there is a complaint about the call center, there is a complaint that the site is not available or is slow to work, or any other complaint, it can easily go to another supplier, to another site and work with someone he is comfortable with and understands. So interesting figures about the first results of the law. Once again, this is not about pilots, not about voluntary standards, but about the mandatory use of electronic purchases from April 1 through May 30, that is, in two months. Three thousand and 500 customers have announced almost 29,000 large - sum procedures. You can see them now on the screen. That means, first of all, that there's no collapse, we've been able to make it completely normal, in a completely functional way, to convert the system from paper to electronic form. Any discussion that Ukraine isn't ready to do this, that there's no Internet somewhere, that there's no old co-workers that can't learn, is, frankly, a complete deception of people who want to live an old life. We see that electronic purchases are made in a mandatory manner as large buyers, and I can again positively mark the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Dnipropetrov district administration, and very small purchases. For example, more than 15 percent of all electronic purchases in Sumskia in a very small town called Deaf, where the mayor took up his job actively and there were no problems with this transition in local officials. And what's most interesting at last. I think it's going to be particularly interesting for the Marjorie MPs about where they have reserves in their districts, that's the average percentage of the economy, 14 percent of the budget. And so this percentage of the economy is increasing. I'm talking to all my regional colleagues. Please see, this is an easy opportunity for you to build more roads, spend more money on medicine, raise social standards in your neighborhood by actively working with local administrations. Please press on them. Please explain to them, please convince them that they are now in the framework of decentralization, within the framework of yesterday's Law on Extra Cost Allocation for Donbas. These amounts are set aside, not to go to the sand and scatter, but to work for the people of Ukraine. Here we are in your hands, here we are fully your partners, here we are ready to respond to all the comments, to any constructive criticism, we are working with all the heads of district government, we are ready to come to school, we have already conducted more than 200 trainings in the region (there is no region where we are at least three times). Appropriately, please contact us if we need any help from our side and everything in your hands to allow us to save in your region. I want to show you very practical figures, what that means to ordinary people. Not theoretic figures of the economy, but what this is reflected in the example of simple homogeneous goods such as sugar. I can show you that shopping outside ProZorro is on average 11 to 65 percent more expensive than ProZorro. In the Chercas region, for example, sugar economies account for 42 percent. Dear colleagues, that's 42 percent, which, if you'll excuse me, someone at least spends, as much as possible, they're sitting in someone's pockets. Our assignment with you and our responsibility to the people of Ukraine is to correct this situation. And if someone asks, what are the reforms that we're doing at the central level that they're giving to the common people, you can show this figure, because it's sugar that they're buying for kindergartens, for schools, for food for the army, and, well, for food for government officials, too. I also want to say a little bit about the fact that our reform really got world recognition, we got a few weeks ago in London's World Procurement Awards 2016 in the field of public procurement, that's, like, Oscar in our sphere, that's the highest prize that exists in principle. We won the British Ministry of Justice, the Department of Education of South Wales, Australia, Singapore’s Health Agency, and other very important claimants. What does this show? Well, first of all, it's attracting attention to the country, it's a real job to raise our investment image, because Ukraine is becoming famous in the world not only for its problems, poverty and corruption, but it becomes known and progressive gains, including the fight against corruption. On the same occasion, there were 900 representatives of the world’s largest corporations who saw that the Ukrainian government, together with Parliament, was taking real steps to facilitate market access for purchases, with regard to the introduction of the latest systems. Secondly, the first in the world market is a recognized Ukrainian IT product in the sphere of government. We always complain that our IT pads in a regulated environment, they often have to work exclusively outsources, they move to Poland, to other countries, they have to immigrate. This is an indicator of what we can, we have an intellectual potential to build the most modern products, build them in Ukraine, embody them in Ukraine, and they work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. So once again, I want to thank you, because it's a great success on your part, you've taken a step towards joining electronic purchases, repeating yourself, that's the area where Ukraine doesn't feed the latter, where we don't have the distance of the world's years between us and the developed countries, and where in many ways we are ahead of the developed countries. And finally, very briefly about plans for the future. You don't have to think that just going to e-purchase means automatic success, unfortunately, we understand that fighting corruption is a struggle that we have to fight every day, unfortunately, we realize that just like we're working on solving problems, so corrupt people are trying to find some kind of a pattern. This year we will work on improving the quality of procurement, simplifying business participation and creating a comprehensive risk management system to combat corruption. I urge everyone to join in monitoring state funds, and you, and regional activists, your assistants, local authorities, can all play a decisive role here. Once again, I would like to point out that, for example, the funds for the restoration of Donbas, which you made last night, cannot be allowed to go to the sand. We're ready to work as hard as we can with the Donetsk Civil Service Administration. We're working with them to start a pilot there on the centralization of purchases and the corresponding centralization of these roads, for the repair of schools, for the restoration of damaged infrastructure. We need your help here. I'm calling you again, please monitor the use of these funds, agitating activists from the regions to do this. Thank you so much for supporting these bills. I think this is an example of fruitful cooperation between the government and the parliament, which gives absolutely significant results both for the investment climate of Ukraine and for the Ukrainian industry, which receives access to government orders and so on for all Ukrainians who can receive better goods and services at lower prices from the state. Thank you very much. Ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Minister! Thank you. This is an unforeseeable question-answer mode, so you can take your place. We're moving on to reading the MP's questions. Thank you to the members of the government for their work. We have parliamentary questions. We have two requests to the President of Ukraine that need a vote, but unfortunately we don't have the same votes in the room again in order to even include them and give them support, which requires 150 votes. So I don't see the point in putting them to the vote right now. With regard to requests to other authorities, we have the following: Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of water-supply costs in Wonderland. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of an unsuspecting road crossing area along the Zitomir-Vinnica route and the roads of Novoguywinsk-Guywa Gitomir district, Žitomir district. Jegora Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the operation of the automatic road safety system. Jury Solovya to the head of the environmental and natural resources management of the Johno-Frankow district administration for some information on the release of pollutants into the air. Jurya Solovya to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, on the provision of information on selected state investment projects by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine in 2015-2016. Victor Ostapchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine for repairing Kharkiv Roads. Ostapa Ednak to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, a Ternopil city head, about the situation with the protection of the Ternopil city council. Irina Souslowy to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Possible Offences of the Administration of the State Treasury of Ukraine in the Makarov region of Kiev. Yuri Babia to the Ivano-Frankow City Head on the organization of the movement of large-scale and large-scale road transport during the summer period on the roads of general use of the city of Ivano-Frankivska. Andrija Teteruka, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Commissioner for the interim administration of the Public Shareholder Company "Commercial Bank "Kristátík" for facilitating the recalculation of budgetary, targeted funds for the implementation of housing programmes for military personnel with the aim of implementing the budget programme. Sergia Dunayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the verification of the acts of hooliganism that took place on 21 April 2016 during the fifth session of the Novopskow Regional Council of the Lugansk Region and the inaction of local law enforcement authorities with regard to the claim for a violation. Groups of national deputies (Dechtirczuka, Bilozoz, Janicko) to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the creation of a new Ukrainian police force in the city of the region of the Dubno Plain region. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional financial resources to the local budgets of the Suma Region for the provision of full educational and medical subsidies and the maintenance of vocational and technical education facilities. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of organisational and practical measures to preserve the higher education institutions of the I-II level of accreditation as higher educational institutions in the higher vocational education system. Vadim Nesterenka to the Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the acceleration of the appointment of judges of the Magdalin district court of the Dnipropetrov region. Anton Yatzenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the full, objective and comprehensive investigation of the cruel treatment of animals and the distribution of videos promoting the cult of violence and cruelty and the purpose of being the director of the Alexandrian Technicum of the National Agrarian University of Bodjak Alexander Ivanovich, the purpose of the stay of Danilenko Anatolia Stepanovich as Rector of the Bilocerk National Agrarian University. Tetjana Crnoval to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take action with regard to the Rector of the National Medical University of the name of Bogolotka Katerina Amosov because of the violation of the six points of the contract and the transfer of the university from the first to the last place awarded in the field monitoring of the activities of WNZ. Gennady of Krivoshei to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the failure to comply with the legal requirements of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Tetjana Ostrikov to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the improper response of the head of the DFS to MP’s appeal No. 146/38, in violation of the statutory deadline and receipt of a copy of the documents for the verification of the State Fiscal Service of the facts set out in the MP’s statement. Anatolia Evlakhova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the "Museum-Memorial Complex of the Residents of the Peoples of Ukraine Destroyed by the Fascist Occupy". Igor Shurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the catastrophicly inadequate level of financial and material security for the health sector of Kharkiv. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of officials of the Skolian Military Forestry of the Ivano-Frankov Military LPC, aimed at cutting down wood in the Carpathians, which destroys the flora and fauna of the western forests of Ukraine. Valentina Didić to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viacheslav Kirilenka, for the promotion of measures aimed at providing a complex of the beekeeping plant, the Guriye's, built in the late 19th century, with the aim of providing a collection of historical and cultural heritage monuments. Valentina Didić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate repair of the car road of the district of Dnipropetrov region. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv Region District State Administration, the head of the Bus District State Administration of Lviv Region, the head of the Lviv Region Road Service, the head of the Radekhiv District Administration of the Lviv Region, the head of the Kamyanka-Buzka District State Administration of Lviv Region, to provide detailed information on the work planned in 2017 on the repair of public and local highways for each area at the expense of both the State and local (district) budgets. Sergey Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the dissemination of unreliable information about Ukrainian MPs by former head of the Department of Drug Abuse Control of the National Police of Ukraine, Elijah Kiwa. Anton Kisse to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of railway connections in Berezine, Ukraine - Basarabiaska (Moldova). Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the M-15 Odessa-Reni International Motorway to the direction of the city of Bolgrad - CPT "Vinogradka" and the territorial road T-1608 towards Sarata-Arciz and T-1627 towards Arciz-Tarutine. Stepan Ivakhiv to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prevent the exercise of the right to voluntary reunification of the communities of Dubovsk, Oblapsk and Grodišten village councils of the Kovel district of Volinsk. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of schools, kindergartens and other social structures. Vasil Pétovka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the distribution of budgetary resources for the construction of a building for the removal of residents of the capital. Solotvino from the predicted area of land deformation in the Tajov region of Zakartat. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets in the field of auditing the activities of the Zitomir District Office of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment and its administration. Vladimir Aresonkov, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the mass appeals of neighbouring rural communities and the performance of the Luchankov Rural Council of the Orutsky district of Žitomir district on improving the transport and operation conditions and the safety of traffic on local highways. Igor Goose to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the need to build a factory of roll-top packaging materials in the village of Charitable (Yollow) Volin region. Igor Guza to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Pavel Rosenk, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the need to improve legislation in part of improving the social welfare of retired teachers who retired until 2010. Jury Timoshenko to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Information on Detained Armed Forces of the Russian Federation. Jury Tymoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of information, as well as the speeding up of pretrial investigations in criminal proceedings regarding the use of excessive physical force and special forces by law enforcement officials to protest participants in January 2014 in Kiev. Sergey Kaplina to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality and transparency of open trades for 100 hydrolysis operations, and for the protection of the interests of the State of Ukraine, particularly the public and the environment, as well as the activities of individual officials in connection with such trades. Eugene Daede, Minister of Defense of Ukraine, for delaying the award of the 20th Special Engineers of the 93rd Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need to verify the facts of the misconduct of officials of the Mikolai customs office of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine. Vladimir Melnicken to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the immediate use of measures regarding the objective investigation of serious crime. Sergei Taruta to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the Regional Department of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the Donetsk Region, on the ineffective use of state assets of the entire property complex "Azova Ship Repair Plant". Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of the execution of decisions on the citizen of Svetlana Labzi. Valentina Nicheporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of salaries to officials of education and health care in the region of Cerkas region. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the suspension of the introduction of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kiev City Head for taking steps to reconstruct the thermal points with the translation of pipelines into the headquarters of the Darnitsky district of Kyiv. Dmitra Dobrodomov, head of the Lviv District State Administration, Lviv City Head, for the establishment of all the causes and circumstances that led to the disaster that took place on May 30, 2016 at the Lviv Field of solid fuel waste in the village of Gribovich Lviv. Dmitra Dobrodomov, head of the Lviv District State Administration, city head of Lviv district, for the creation, operation and operation of the Rehabilitation and Assistance Centre for Children in the City of Lviv district. Sergey Labazuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for parliamentary hearings aimed at providing social protection to the population in terms of rising prices and tariffs. Irina Efraemov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funding to cover unemployment on salary. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lifting of pension restrictions for some categories of working pensioners. Anatoly Denisenka to the Minister for Temporary and Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the Settlement of the Issue of Assistance to Internally Moved Persons for Repayment of Pensions. Mikoli Skorka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal use of the land area of the Odessa territorial community (orientated area of 1.5 hectares) TPF "Success" TOV. Alexia Savchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal transfer of land to the common property of the territorial communities. Vladimir Gusak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the passport depths of the access channel to the Austal port. Sergia Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Chief of Staff of Ukrburo Interpol for information on requests from the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine sent to Interpol for the purpose of international search by Viktor Yanukovič, Mikli Azarov and Andrija Portnova, and others. Andrija Derkacha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the termination of labour relations and the release of Oleg Prokhorenko from the post of head of the PAT "Sharping" government for the anti-government position. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction in gas prices. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for implementing the 2016 Government Priority Action Plan in the implementation of a system of compensation for the cost of medicines for citizens. Maxima Savrasov to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, for the conduct of a review of the efficiency of the use of state property and the financial and economic activity of the state-owned enterprise "Science Research Agrocombination of Desert Water". John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for the provision of assistance for the treatment of oncological residents of the town of Kitzman in the Cherniwiecki region. John Rybak, Vice President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, for the provision of permits for Ukraine to preserve the population of dentists in Bukovinsky Carpathians. Ruslan Lukianczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possibility of restoring the practice of issuing real estate documents on a strict reporting form with the signature of the responsible person and the "wet" seal. Vassil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the provision of treatment for patients with rare (orphania) diseases in the Plain region. Olga Bogoliac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at the implementation of the State's targeted programme to support participants in hostilities and their children in the pursuit of vocational and technical education. Romana Macola to the head of the Hmelnick district council to address the issue of additional financing of the construction of the I-II public education school was in the village of Korchik Shepetov district of Hmelnick district. Romana Macola to the head of the Hmelnick district council on the issue of further financing of the Polonian Central District Hospital of N. Govorun in the Hmelnicki district. Maxima Savrasov to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of information on the kidnapping of funds by the Director of the Ukrainian National Medical and Social Centre for War Veterans. Vladimir Ariev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the enforcement by the authorities of the State Fiscal Service of decisions to reinstate the work of the Customs office of Tečyev and the Customs Sector of Hust. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of granting the status of a member of the fighting activities of Derek Alexander Mikolaiovich, who served as the head of the Darnick district office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev during the Dignity Revolution and took an active part in the persecution of Maydan activists. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to conduct a comprehensive inspection of the state-owned enterprise "DEC MOZ Ukraine", establishing the circumstances and the legality of the appointment of the head of the specified enterprise. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the illegal inaction of prosecutors and police of the Hersonian region in the investigation of criminal conduct brought into the Single State Register. On March 22, 2013, according to article 122 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, according to a citizen of Brodova Irina Anatoliyevna, she was charged with requiring money and bodily harm by a citizen named Herko Mikhail Dementiovich, namely, the Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region of Romas S.I., Head of the Hersonian Local Prosecutor's Office, Kovalenko A.O. and his first deputy, Guljakov K.V., Prosecutors of the Hersonian Local Prosecutor's Office Bobrus O.V., Kralenko W.V., Orlovsky L.H., Nebajlo I.H., Grigorian S.V., Koratsky L.V., Deputy Chief of the Follower's Office of the National Police in the Hersonian Region of Andrejev S.V., Head of the Hersonian Police Department of the National Police Department of the National Police in the Hersonian region of Gladko V.I., Follower of the Hersson Department of the Hersson Police Department of the National Police in the Hersonian district of Fedotchenko V., Drobina K.V., Black S., Kmet A.S. Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the circumstances that may indicate a criminal offence committed by citizen Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovich. The Royal Natalia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the problems of the calculation of internally displaced persons and the receipt of social benefits. Constantine Usova to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for taking appropriate steps to verify the activities of fictitious operators. Jurya Bereza to the Chief of Staff - General, Commander - of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to report on events related to the death of Ukrainian military personnel in the last week in the area of antiterrorist operations. Jury Bereza to the head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine to confirm or refute information on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by the citizen of the Russian Federation Grigoristina Konstantin Ivanovich. Dmitry Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the problems of the settlement of internally displaced persons and on the compliance of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine which regulate the issue of social payments and the registration of the residence/residence of internally displaced persons. Andrija Lopushanski to the head of the Lviv District Council, the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the T-14-18 roads of Nižankovici-Striy (in the area from the city of Kirov to the border of the Sambir district) and C 141703 Old Sambir-Koblo. Alexander Kodola to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the completion of the construction of Nosov School Number 5 in Chernigiv Region. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for the estrangement of the Ninja Children's School of Arts. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appointment of the staff of the Centre for the Recruitment and Social Remuneration of Public Officials. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Education and Science about the allocation of funds for the capital renovation of the buildings of the Mirgorod Art and Industrial College of Mikoli Vasilovich Gogol. Igor Vasyunika to the Lviv city head on the report on the measures taken to solve the waste problem in Lviv and to eliminate the Gribowitz garbage dump. Igor Vasjunika to the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Lviv region on the report on the measures taken to solve the problems of the Gribovic garbage dump. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Chief of the Squire Police Department of the National Police Department of the Kyiv Region for the return of documentation on the gas pipeline of the village of Orichowec of the Skuri district of Kyiv district. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion of Bill No.3851-1 of 4 February 2016 in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the protection of taxpayers' rights to added value, including agricultural goods. Olesia Long to the public stockholders' association "The State Saving Bank of Ukraine", the Ukrainian state-owned postal company "Krošta" about the commission when receiving payments from the population for gas. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the illegal use of land in the village of Kuzmin Krasiliv district of Hmelnick. Andrija Šinkovič as acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Hmelnick district government administration, head of the Hmelnick district council, head of the Bilogir district council of Hmelnicke district, head of the Hmelnicke district district district district district district district department, director of the Department of Health of the Hmelnicke district public administration for the preservation of the Yampil primary health care centre. Ruslana Demchak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the change in Ukraine’s State Budget for the 1st half of 2016 regarding the financial security guaranteed by the State to citizens of social benefits (compensation for extended travel and communications services). Ruslana Demchak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the amendment to the State Budget for Ukraine in the second half of 2016 on the increase in the expenditure on the work of civil servants to implement the provisions of the State Service Act. Michael Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on criminal investigation. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, on the capital repair of the road in the town of Skalat Podvolocice district of Ternopil. Victor Krivenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine, the National Shareholder Company of Naftogaz Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the daughter of the Gas of Ukraine, the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the Zaporez Region for Gas Abuse. Victor Krivenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Administration of the State Architecture and Construction Inspection in the Mikolayivsk Region for the Cancellation of the Declaration of Initiation of Construction Works. Groups of National Deputies (Boyko, Stasuka and others; only 4 deputies) to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the dismantling of an illegal automatic gas filling station. Aunty Dontz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about tax administration. Alexander Dombrovski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on unlocking the work of the strategic enterprise DP "NAEC "Energot" and ensuring the nuclear security of the state. Alexander Dombrovsky, acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Director of the Institute of Bread Pathology and joints of Professor Titink, Head of the Vinnick District Administration, Head of the Winnitsky District Council, Vinnitsky City Head for the Treatment of the Teen Box of Irina Igorna on 24 April 2002, who needs immediate intervention to level the spine with the establishment of titanium structures. Alexander Marchenka to the finance minister of Ukraine for the construction of the Radiation Therapy Department of the Biotzerkow Cancer Scholar. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inclusion in the socio-economic development plan for 2017 of the reconstruction of R-17 and R-32. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, Odessa District State Administration on the use of effective measures to address the collective appeal of residents of House 11, Corps 2 on the prospectus of the Akademic Mouse of the Kyiv Region of Odessa on the need for a comprehensive solution to the issue of establishing a safety level of electromagnetic radiation in connection with the installation of antennas on the pipes of the “Electrometer” located in the Vodkanal of the Kyiv district against this residential area, which causes the overall deterioration of the health of the residents of the house and creates unsatisfactory conditions for the living of people. Edouard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, the Odessa District State Administration on the need for a re-examination and effective response to the collective appeal of residents of buildings 19, 21, 23, 31, 41, 43 "A" and the district "B" of Kyiv district of Odessa on the complex arrangement of the inter-quarterly passage along the 13th tram between the Academic Royal Street and the Prefecture of Marshall Zhukov, where the No.63 School of Education and Children's Garden No.211, the sidewalk are located along the tram line for schoolchildren, kindergarteners and tram stops "Ak. The Queen's No.63", as well as other measures with the well-being and safety of the activities of both children and the inhabitants of the buildings. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the conduct of a service investigation into officials of the National Bank of Ukraine whose actions/activity have resulted in the loss of the Fund to guarantee investments of individuals of 1 billion dollars, as well as losses to investors and creditors of the PAT Bank of Mikhail. Paul Rizanenka and Olga Belkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for approval, to meet the requirements of article 16 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, to protect vulnerable consumer categories. Oleg Osuhovski to the head of the National Police Department in the Plains region for the conduct of a preliminary investigation into land and urban legislation violations. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the investigation of illegal possession of the T.O.O. "Olesia" property in the city of Sarna Rivena. Mr. Andrija Nemirowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the corruption of the CD-DND DOR chief physician The White Natalia and the actions aimed at discrediting the Hero of Ukraine, Sergio Nigoyan. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the continuation of the reconstruction of the Universities Sports Palace "Meteor" of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Macarov Machinery Factory" in Dnipropetrovsk. The Gennady of Chekita to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an urgent review of the minimum prices for alcoholic beverages. Igor Popov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the development and adoption of a state-wide programme to provide people with free individual energy consumption counters. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the publicity and participation of the Supreme Council in cooperation between Ukraine and the IMF. Sergey Rudika to the Executive Responsibility of the City of Cherkas region’s Smiley City Council on the improper control of the efficiency of the use in 2015 of the additional 10.3 million dollars from the state budget of Ukraine for the needs of the inhabitants of Smila Cherkaskie region and the failure to provide a period of time to respond to my parliamentary requests. No.396-08-672, 396-08-673, 396-08-705 of 21 April and 12 May of the current year. Sergija Rudika to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the right of citizens of Smila Cherkaske district to the public transport benefits by providing subsidies from the city budget of the city of Smila Cherkaske district to compensate for the extended travel of individual categories of citizens for 2016 in the amount of 1 million dollars. 300 grand. That's right. John Melniczuk is under the responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide the child with a mother-hero of five children in Natalia. Ivan Melniczuk to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on speeding up the allocation of funds to finance the needs of District No.14 of Winniczuk on the basis of a subsidy for socio-economic development from the State budget of Ukraine for 2016 and setting specific deadlines. Jurya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of copies of transcripts of meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since December 23, 2015 and December 30, 2015. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine to resolve the issue of compensation to citizens for contributions from the USSR Savings. Alexander Guerrega to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on food safety and consumer protection for conducting an independent study on the detection of an infection that causes mass damage to pigs in the Danube region. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the reduction of the percentage from lysing to 10%. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on how to resolve as soon as possible the question of the restructuring of the debt of the KP "Mikolai Teplocomunnergo" of the Lviv region and the Zoločitepleenergo INC of the Lviv region before the NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine" which was created as a result of the lack of compensation for the difference in tariffs for budgetary organizations. Groups of National Deputies (Bathenka, Shevchenka and others; only 17 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the investigation of the causes of inactivity, which led to the tragedy in the Gribovic garbage dump of the Lviv region and the legislative settlement in the garbage processing sector. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures regarding the financing of vocational and technical institutions. Michael Humil to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to remove obstacles to blocking the work of the Society with limited responsibility for "Valetuda" and to renew the special permission to use the Soluk family's nadrama No.5944 from May 23, 2014. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget for the repair of the Jovkovsky region's roads as a strategic border region of Ukraine. Vladimir Parasuka to the head of Odessa District State Administration, temporarily acting as Chief of the National Police Department in the Odessa Region, the first deputy prosecutor of the Odessa region, Odessa’s city chief for the prevention of the looting of recreational land on the Black Sea coast of Odessa. Mr. Vadim Krivenk and Mr. Paul Dziblik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of a stable grant from the State Budget of Ukraine to support the budget of the city of Malin of the Žitomir Region with the aim of financing the State Institute of Education "The Malin Professional List". Dmitry Timchuk and Paul Dziblik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the City Village Council of the Radomisl district of Žitomir region of movable and immovable military property, which is on the balance of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the gasification of the village. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine to reimburse the costs of the transfer of the citizens' pension categories. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal conduct of the management of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. Victoria Vojtick and Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the Supervisory Board of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrnafta", head of the Government of the Public Shareholder Society "Ukrnafta" for the provision and publication of the Audit Report "Ukrnaft". Victoria Vojcitsky to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and utilities, the President of the Management of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukratransgaz" for the draft Decree of the NCRECR "On Approval of Changes to the Gas Transport System Code." Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv district administration for the repair of the N-17 Lviv - Kamyanka-Buzka - Radehov - Lutsk road in the area through the city of Kamyanka-Buzka Lviv district. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the opening of a new bus route for the general use of Drogobic-Sprinia. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance by Platinum Bank's Public Shareholders with the rules of effective legislation. Andrija Illenka is in charge of the headship of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Kiev City State Administration for repairs and replacement of emergency elevators on the Lisov residential area in the right district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka is in charge of the headship of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the repair of asphalt cover on the road between Kyoto Street and Brovarsky Avenue in the right - hand district of Kyiv. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the activities of law enforcement authorities in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, who were unmotivatingly opposed to the holding of the Peace for Our Children. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the order of transfer of property rights, the rights of permanent use to land for the maintenance of apartment buildings. Groups of National Deputies (Solvara, Melniczuk and others; only 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the inclusion of the Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics of Ukraine in the National Programme for the Prevention of Tuberculosis. Oleg Petrenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the study of the activities of the Czercasioblanergo Pat in the timely processing and registration of tax consignments; the removal of obstacles to the choice of consumers of the electricity supplier. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Ukrainian National Migration Service for the provision of information on two valid passports from a Ukrainian citizen named Victor Shokin. Alexia Lensky and Alexia Kirichenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the implementation of one of the main tasks of the Ministry of Justice in accordance with paragraph 41 of the Regulation on the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, approved by Presidential Decree No. 3395/2011 No.395/2011 on 6 April 2011, by the conduct of a review of illegal activities directed by Pat "Suhimprom" Lazaković Igor Vasilovich, who violates the constitutional guarantees, labour and social rights of employees, avoids paying taxes by stealing the State budget of Ukraine, cooperates with the Russian Federation to undermine the industrial power of Ukraine and makes separate statements, to apply appropriate measures of reaction and to exclude the results of the review of the management of the illegal power of the State. Alexia Lensky and Alexia Kirichenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the proposal for the allocation of the State budget allocated to Ukraine in accordance with the Law on Amendments to Supplements Nos.3 and No. 7 of the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on the financial provision of compensation for the payment of the payment of individual categories of citizens and other statutory benefits, funds in the form of targeted assistance to the residents of the Somali region, which are granted the right of payment by the legislation of Ukraine, which will facilitate the fair distribution of material resources and the removal of social tensions in the region. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the verification of information on the commission of criminal offences by officials of the State Specialised Budget Institution Agrarian Fund. Alexia Rybkin to the Minister of Education and Science to provide a dormitory of higher education at the Donba National Academy of Construction and Architecture. Mikoli Kucher to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the illegal actions of Anchenk Vasil in the Teplicki district of Vinicki district. Jury Levchenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the illegal construction on the street of Ukraine, 6 (Novoukrainska, 24th) in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev and the inaction of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to stop illegal construction work in the land area of the Ministry of Education. Jury Lewchenka to the Department of Land Resources of the Kyiv City State Administration, the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Department of Municipal Property of Kiev, the Department of Urban Planning and Architecture of the Kyiv Region. the State Administration for Information on the Legal Status and Owners of the Land, where Blue Market was located in Kiev, as well as the conduct of a land survey. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for taking the necessary measures to fund the National Budget Programme "National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child" and to provide deaf children with implantation systems. Groups of National Deputies (Second, Denisenka and others; only 7 deputies) to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine to pay off the debt owed to Pat "The Crossroads". Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the reading of parliamentary inquiries. In view of the fact that we have only eight minutes before our break, we will not be able to consider any of the issues of the day’s order. So I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work. I'm asking you to prepare for a different speech, but I'm warning you, if you're going to participate in a card record whose owners aren't in the hall, I won't say a word and I won't pass it on. You're ready to record, aren't you? Please, there's a recording of the performances at the Miscellaneous. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy John Spores, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u71	Dear national MPs, our constituents! Indeed, today is Journalist Day. Well, there aren't any today, unfortunately. But first of all, I want to say hello because they deserve it. They are really doing their positive work to learn more about all the events we have that are taking place in Ukraine. And so, indeed, they would like to have productive work and health. Well, first of all, I'm going to say that this week really didn't go in vain, because whoever talks, the judicial reform that we've carried out is really a big step forward. And I think we should, in fact, think at the end of the day that the investor will come to Ukraine, knowing that the courts will be fair, and this is also jobs, and this is taxes, and other areas that should really develop in our country, so I think the national MPs here have done everything and fair, who wouldn't criticize that it's unfair. Yes, indeed, there are different views, but I think that everyone should unite in this matter. Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to raise a question first, and again, summer came, the question of milk. Majors from all sides are calling us now, too. Please say 2.50 per liter of milk. This is really unfair. And once again, we've adopted the bill in the first reading and we can't put it in the agenda today so that, in fact, the milk where you and I took four bracelets should be. I'll tell you that the water today is 12, 9, the same liter, 14, looking where they're selling. I would very much like to go back to this bill, because today's trouble in the village, people don't have a place to work. People are holding this cow to make some money, and we're putting this bill aside. I'd really like to have him. I want us to go back to him. And not only is it in my district, it's all over Ukraine, because less than 3.5-4 bracelets per liter of milk should not be for peasants. 4 bracelets and above! I think that we should do everything with you today, really, to keep this issue in the next plenary our week, and we're back to it. I would also like our government to pay attention to the rehabilitation of children. We have, for example, a good center in Tulkín, but unfortunately there is no government program for it. I would very much like the rehabilitation center of children to be first in the government's agenda today to be cost-sharing. It's not the kids in the DSB who are not to blame, it's not those kids who are disabled who are disabled. They should learn together, they should communicate, and there should also be an allocation of funds. So I'm very much asking that the government program as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Igor Shurma, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u73	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I focus today on the inadequate financial and materially provided health sector in Ukraine, particularly the Kharkiv region and the Lviv region. Why Kharkiv Region? Because Kharkiv region is a pioneer today, despite the lack of a complete concept of the development of the national health system. Under Ukraine’s budgetary legislation, the financing of health facilities owned by specific territorial communities of the country’s administrative units is made at the expense of the appropriate local budgets. The calculation of the amount of the medical subsidy and its distribution between the designated administrative and territorial units is based on the number of people living in a specific territory and taking into account the financial standard of the health budget, i.e. per capita. In doing so, it should be noted that in the context of the substantial inflation processes that took place in the country during the 13th to 16th years, the fiscal security rate only increased by 24 percent and today it is 744 bracelets per capita against almost 600 in the 13th year. At the time, we know if the currency is down 3 times, so that's 6 times less than the current cost. At the same time, the local budgets of the Kharkiv Region have been supported by a medical subsidy, without accounting for 210,000 citizens, who were accounted for as of 1 January 2016 in the only information database on persons who move with temporarily occupied territory, areas of anti-terrorist operation. And so this led to the underfunding of this region, which provides medical care, where children from those regions are born in the amount of 240 million. It also draws attention to the issue of the completeness and timeliness of the centralized supply of medical supplies and medical supplies to the Ministry of Health. On May 1st, only 30 percent of the estimated need and quota for 2015 was received in all regions. However, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers this year there has also been an increase in wages. Considering that the increase was neither foreseen nor budgeted, only the Kharkiv region today lacks 177 million. In the Lviv region, 150 million are underfunded. It turns out that in every area, if you don't add money, you have to reduce 7,000 health workers. In view of my presentation, I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the government's representatives, to immediately address the issue of proper financing of the sector in all areas of Ukraine and in the Kharkiv region.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u74	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u75	on the proper financing of areas of Ukraine to reduce social tension among health workers, as well as among patients and their families, the burden of financing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u76	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Dmitri Lubintz. And since he is also listed in a place that allows him to speak, he has a six - minute schedule. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u77	Good afternoon! Lubinet Dmitry, Donetsk district, Majority District No.60, city of Volnovaha. We always have this rostrum for our problems, which are very much in Ukraine. Today, I would like to give a positive and positive account of the very positive initiative that has taken place not only in Ukraine but in many European countries. On the initiative of the Honorary Consul of Hungary in the city of Ivana-Frankiv Vishivunuk, president of the Surrender Foundation, Katerina Bužinska, for the support of the community organization Promini-IF, founded by Dmitr Banach, the project "Children for Peace in the World" arrived in the Volnovsky region in early April 2016, and in Novotroitsk, as you know, it is practically on the lines of opposition in our Donetsk region. They took six children in order for them to join other children from different parts of Ukraine to come to the Vatican for a personal audience with the Holy Pope. All this has happened since December 1, 2015, when the International Social Project "Children for Peace in the World" was launched. So the initiators of the project, besides what I called, were also the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the Hungarian Republic to Ukraine Erno Keshken. Similarly, all of this could not have happened without the very serious and powerful support of our foreign ministry. Our children visited and presented our desire for peace in countries such as Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Austria, Slovakia, Serbia, Estonia, Croatia, Bosnia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Moldova, Switzerland, Israel, France, Luxembourg, Belgium. The Netherlands, Egypt, Germany, Spain, Portugal Italy, San Marino, the Vatican, Greece, Great Britain, Ireland. You can imagine how many countries our children have gone through, and most of all, they were speaking in the parliaments of these countries. Today, at the end of the first stage of this program, these kids were performing at a press point, singing an anthem that was heard by a lot of national MPs who were joining in. Everybody loved it. And you know, this desire throughout the world to show that Ukrainians are a nation that advocates peace, that wants to live freely, that wants to live in a European family, that has European countries that are in line with all European values, you know, for a lot more than probably many national deputies are doing in the country and doing it in this very room. So I wanted to tell you all this, to share a nice experience and to tell the national MPs that, look, our kids are working with us the same way. Yes, we have a country in a difficult situation, we have a war going on, but we can all influence processes so that this war will soon end with our victory. Our children, we as national deputies, the officials in charge of our President, I am absolutely confident that we will end this war, we will end with our Ukrainian victory, we will return to our control of the temporarily uncontrollable areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, especially, and we will always say that we will return and Crimea, and only after that will we end this. Our war. So I want to tell you, children today have seen who of the national deputies comes into the session hall on Friday. There is someone to follow the example, look, not many of us, but we are the same, we come every Friday. So I would like to ask all the people living in the Donetsk region from the children who are now in the Supreme Hall at 2 p.m. to wish it were the deputies who come to their work on Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u78	Namely. I'm ready to name everyone by name, but, guys, we all see. There are self-help representatives, Freedoms, non-fractional, People's Will, People's Front, People's Force, People's Movement, People's Control. Olya! Well, as a great faction of us, we have a very large representation, "The Will of the People" of Peter Dustenka. So I thank all the national deputies who carry out their duties and come to the hall on Friday as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u79	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u80	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Yesterday you and I were looking at a law for Ukraine's development, Law 3822. I'm one of the authors of this bill, and unfortunately, yesterday, we didn't win, but we didn't lose. For us, it is very important to place the accent in the right place today: it is not about the quota for the Ukrainian language, it is about creating a living space for the Ukrainian language. You and I have a bunch of legislation that seems to provide 50 percent of the national producer to be on the air, but we have 2-3 percent with you. We have to make it very clear that language, except that it's the soul of the people, that it's beautiful, that it's the soul of the people -- it has a specific pragmatic function in it. And all the countries that have educated governments that have a normal system of training government personnel, they all clearly understand that language is the basis of national culture. National culture is one of the pillars of man's desire to have a national state, to have a state that introduces and protects that language. When speech is destroyed, culture is destroyed. And a person becomes either a cosmopolitan and for him the main criteria for choosing a place of residence are ecology, income and security. Or a person becomes the bearer of another culture of the language to which he communicates, and this person is ordering another state that will bring this culture, protect it and develop it. And that's why all the countries of the world: Israel, France, Germany (and the most painful way Russia does this) are involved in financing development, protectionism of their language and, as a result, their culture. And so the $20 million invested in the Russian language in Crimea led a large number of people to order the Russian Federation as a state that would develop and produce this culture. They were manipulated by the fact that someone in Ukraine was pressing the tongue. The position of the People's Movement that the Ukrainian is a political nation. It is impossible and impossible to find an ethnic Ukrainian. We have Tatars who are Ukrainians, we have Jews who are Ukrainians, we have half the medical services in the UPA were Jews, and we don't need these manipulations around it. What happened to us recently? What became an alternative law and now the main thing the enemies of the Ukrainian State wanted was to argue with each other. We need to be wiser, we need to get the positive things that were on TV in that bill. It's very true that we've brought both of these bills back to the committee, and we need to find a common language next week, and we need to put out a bill on the basis of 3822, which has been processed by the public supported by the public, and a bill has been passed. If we had missed a second bill yesterday, there was an article 5 that actually allowed us to run.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u81	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u82	Run the entire Ukrainian content at night. But now don't bother, don't argue with our fellow MPs, we have to make one bill. And it's good that the discussion goes around doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u83	Thank you. Welcome to the word of Vladimir Parasuk, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u84	I see that there are people upstairs to see how the Supreme Council works, and I'm very sorry that there are no deputies here. I'm asking the operators to show the hall now and to see who it is. We see you, Borislav, with the kids on the balcony. Tell your children that we will fight to make the deputies responsible, honest, and work. I want to use a piece of my speech to bring to the participants in the fighting, to the boys who were involved in the anti-terrorist operation from Novoyavorovska that I handed over today's papers to Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich that he agreed to increase the city's borders and that all the boys get the land they deserve. So I think this issue will soon be resolved and we put an end to this bureaucracy. I want to thank both the mayor of the city, and all the activists, and the ATO participants, who have joined this problem, I hope we can solve it. But the main part of my speech is I want to dedicate it to the guys who are in jail right now. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you for a moment's attention so you can hear me, I don't want to talk. Glory, a second. Now the prisons of Mariupol, Krasnoarmian, Kurahovo, North London are filled with Ukrainian volunteers, and they're put there by judges who once cried out for loyalty to the DNR and the LNR, and then they're back in Ukraine. Dear colleagues! It's our responsibility, and you and I are sitting in this room right now, and someone's not sitting here, because they spit on this Supreme Council and on the people. But we have to make a political decision and release all these guys by means of a bill that amnestys them all. At best, there is no need for amnesty, for they are not to blame. So, I'm asking you very much to take such initiatives, to participate in court hearings, to take on the boys' errands and pull them out of S.I.S. because they're sitting there for nothing. They're sitting because they were protecting Ukraine. Thank you all. Thank you for your attention. And glory to the heroes of ATO! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u85	Thank you. I'm addressing the National Deputy Borislav Berezi, and I'm asking you to stand by, because you can hear more than a reporter. I'd like to have a word with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's Deputy Andrew Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u86	Native Ukrainian people! I would like to refer to my final bill 4373, which provides for increased responsibility of drivers for driving in a state of alcohol, narcotics, or medicine that prevents them from driving. An extremely painful and extremely important issue that is not resolved only in the walls of this room. The sad statistics of 2015 show that only more than 93,000 copies of the protocols were produced. As a result of drunken actions, drunk drivers killed nearly 317 Ukrainians. Three thousand and 203 were injured because the driver was driving in a state of alcohol abuse. This bill provides for increased responsibility that after the first time he gets into the hands of the police, he will be deprived of the right to drive a vehicle for one year and will pay, let's say, a fine of ten thousand two hundred dollars. If within two years, he will be deprived of his right to drive a vehicle for three years and the fine will already be twice – 20,000,400 dollars. If, for five years, he is again driving an alcoholic drunkard, he will be deprived of his 10 - year license and will pay the fine of 40 thousand,800 dollars. But it's not a panacea, it's not the goal of making money, it's the goal that I set, it's prevention. Each of us is responsible for keeping such a drunk driver or in a state of drug abuse from taking the lead on such a vehicle. It is vital that when each of us sees a situation where a person is in a state of drunkenness, he tries to get behind the wheel and drive in his own direction, he is stopped. If you are unable to stop, I ask you very much, it is the responsibility of each of us to warn the police that you have a witness or reason to believe that such a driver is driving and is trying to drive. Because the course of events becomes unpredictable, our children can fall under the wheels, our parents, we are with you, no one is immune to the negative developments, terrible figures show that. There is a wise idea that saving one person is to save one world. And that's why our task is to save and prevent negative events. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u87	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Gennady Kryvoša, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u88	This time it's going to be two, I guess. Thank you. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, today I would like to draw your attention to the subject that we raised on Tuesday is the International Day to Combat Tobacco. You all know that I am co-author of several bills, including Bill No. 4507, which was on Tuesday, by the way, incorporated into the agenda. I think he's about to be considered on the committee and considered in Parliament. The second bill is Bill No. 3788. I'd like to stop on this bill. On this Wednesday, a bill was considered by the profile committee and an appropriate remark was made, for which I would like to make a reference to one paragraph in the bill, which was technically excluded from the draft law, but in the Comparative Table of the words “exclusion” (the first paragraph of article 13 of Act No. 2899) I did not foresee. In line with the comments made by the people's deputies, particularly Mr. Musi -- I would like to thank him personally for this -- I sent a letter today to the Supreme Council Head, where an appropriate amendment was made and this technical error was changed, so that the bill in question would still be accepted on the committee and considered in our Parliament. I would like to remind you that this bill specifically refers to the strengthening of controls and prohibitions on smoking sites. This is primarily the case with hospitals, it's about preschool, school schools, it's about places where children's toys are sold, it's about places where they're sold. The places that parents visit together with their children. As a father of three, I have repeatedly become a guarantee that there is no way, even as a national deputy, to influence that at the entrances to different supermarkets, children’s and entertainment centers there are places for smoking right at the entrance that are quite negative and hindering and crossing the common, simple children and parents, as well as harming our health. So once again, I would like to thank the profiling committee and ask them to consider the appropriate amendments that I have already made to the Supreme Council today. At the same time, I would like to ask the appropriate profiling committee to consider Bill 4507 as soon as possible, which provides for substantial changes in the regulation of the sale and use of so - called electronic cigarettes. We all know that electronic cigarettes seem to be harmless, but I've already talked about what's in their composition. Their composition contains what is called nicotine, which is essentially one of the ingredients of normal cigarettes. This has a rather negative and harmful effect on the health of our teens, since a normal cigarette, an electronic cigarette, cannot be distinguished in any way from a regular pencil. And that's what normal teenagers use. At the same time, it's sold freely in all places: online stores, in transitions, in ordinary grocery stores. This needs to be stopped, compared to regular cigarettes, and done in such a way that they bear full responsibility in parallel with how they are responsible and sold by their respective ordinary tobacco products. At the same time, I would point out that in Bill No. 4507, I am very much in favour of increased control and sanctions for the illegal sale of cigarettes, for the sale of children, for the illegal circulation of cigarettes, for the import of them without excise duties to Ukraine and so on. This is also a very serious argument for this bill to be adopted as soon as possible in Parliament. And the third rule in this bill is the rule that applies. a standard that applies to the overall comprehensive approach to so-called additives, taste additives for cigarettes. We all know that the European Union has already supported the initiative to ban the appropriate taste additives and therefore I propose that the so-called taste supplements be completely excluded in Ukrainian production. This attracts considerable attention and attracts ordinary children and adolescents. They're small, but if we reduce them. Let's ban the whole thing. Let's ban cigarette supplements, so for today, in fact, I think we're going to reduce at least twice the attractiveness and desire of children to use tobacco products. In the future, we need to understand that the number of people who smoke after 18 years of age will also be halved. An example of this is the legislation of the United States of America, when a bill was passed at the 2009 convention, and so in the United States, in the last three to four years, the number of smokers among minors has actually dropped twice as much, and this is a pretty showy and serious result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u89	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Olga Cervakov, "Block of Peter Poroshenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u90	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Every society is based on two basic principles: the rule of law and justice. Please tell us what the rule of law may be when the decision of the higher legislative body is annulled in court and not simply annulled, and it is overturned in the interests of the landowner, the illegal dissipation and the interests of corruption. Remember, all of you, I think, are still very well, as on April 14, we adopted a decree on the dissolution of the Cotsubin Village Council and the appointment of the elections, the takeover of power by the Cotsubinian deputies, the violent coup d'état that took place on the night of April 8 to 9. So here, colleagues, I want to inform you. That ruling yesterday, not yesterday, was annulled by the Supreme Administrative Court this week. Judge Smokovich Mikhailo saw no reason for the election. At that he even refused to learn the evidence, he refused to participate in the video of the coup that followed the LNR and DNR, he refused to participate as witnesses of the national MPs who were present at this session of the disgraceful Cotsubin village council and directly saw what was happening in these days. It was absolutely denied in studying any argument, in haste over a day and a half of the actual decision day, and now Cotsubinsky is once again in a state of turbulence, because those who have committed a coup d'état walk and rejoice. The law enforcement agencies work in half an hour. After we spoke to you, they really activated. But what happens now? On April 9, a criminal case was committed regarding the forceful capture of the administration of counterfeiting and forgeries. I demand that the Attorney General and the police report these cases immediately. What to investigate, if there's a video and you see Julia Glavaca, the self-proclaimed head of Kotsubinsky faked four seals, she's supposed to be in prison, not in the village chair. On trial. Dear colleagues, I know for a fact that we will get justice. We have the possibility of a complaint, and we're going to sue this decision, if we don't press charges, we're going to make another ruling on the elections of the Cotsuba Village Council. And the elections of the corrupt village council will still be, and they will no longer vote for it, not 260, but 300 deputies, because if they can't bring the courts and law enforcement officers in line, they will be led by the national deputies. We didn't start this war, we didn't start it, but we have enough power to stop this mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u91	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Paul Kiskar, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear friends! Thank you, Volodymyr Parasuk, for reminding me of the most painful subject for all volunteer movement. And the issue that is not being resolved in principle by the active authorities is absolutely ignored by the question of the release from prison of those people who in principle have stood free and have not allowed the spread of the riot to the entire territory of Ukraine. But my four short questions are primarily military questions. And I'll start with a state defense order. At the moment, the state sees it possible to finance a state defense order with a spectre. But in reality, there is no money and perhaps no money, for the law that we are considering in the Supreme Council is quite contradictory and is not sure that it will be adopted quickly. After its adoption, it will take six months to obtain this money, in principle, in the state budget. And it'll take three months to sign the contracts. There will be, I think, two weeks to complete these contracts. In fact, we are ignoring the execution of a state defense order that was surprisingly adopted early in January of this year. In fact, we've ruined the possibility of executing this state defense order. And I demand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine make sure that the money for the execution of the state defence order is invented in the general fund of the state budget of Ukraine. It will be true, it will be right. You're at war, we don't play toys, it's not toys. Please execute a state defense order. Question number two. Implementation or control of funds from the State Regional Development Fund. Because today's paradoxical situation, for example, I have in Poltavishland, where when I talk to the district councils, with the district council, it turns out that there's money, except that it's not distributed. The bridge in Mirgorod was standing and standing, and no one approached him. Because of this bridge, Horol is using gas to ask another part of the city. If we take another two or three months to do the job, the city of winter will actually be frozen without heat, without light, without gas. Question No.3. Reforming the Agrarian Academy of Sciences. At present, only the transfer of land to the Academy of Agricultural Sciences will allow the state budget to reach 420 billion dollars per acre. Fantastic money that just gets eaten and stolen. They're all actually in the hands of those who run these institutions, even though it's as flat as I've now taken just the amount of land and transferred the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u93	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u94	Actually, it's a question of the minister's control. We have contacts with him, he knows and he should present the next day to the government the concept of reform of the Agrarian Academy of Sciences. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u95	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Musia, who is non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u96	Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalstina, Czervonograd, Lviv region. Another district and another area of the Lviv environmental disaster after the Gribowitz garbage dump. But an environmental disaster that occurred much earlier than the Gribovic garbage dump. And the local authorities, and the Ministry of Coal Industry and Energy, and wherever I didn't go, I asked MPs, and even the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the need to finally eliminate the environmental disaster at Redwood in the Sokal region, which is called the "Central Coal Mansion Factory" and the terricone. Imagine a six-year-old burning of a terricone, turning to national MPs, addressing the Chief of the Supreme Council, and the officials on the ground being nothing of emotion. The strange answers came to me three days ago from the ministry of Lviv district to my deputy's request to conduct a study of air, water research and earth exploration, soil around this one, two kilometers, burning terricone for six months. You know, you give a miracle to officials who probably write for some preferences or rewards that they've seen with their eyes that nothing burns. On Facebook, on all public websites in both Red and Sokalska every day, public activists publish photographs of the terrimony burning, and the Lviv district sanepidem service writes that there is no ecological disaster and the terricone doesn't burn. People good, how long will this lawlessness with those officials last?Oh, my God! Mr. Sinyunka, you are the head of the district administration, and if your officials do not fulfill their obligations, can you understand them in some way? Well, that's impossible to bear anymore. Madam Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Mrs. Oksano, I have spoken to you repeatedly. Take the deputy deputy as deputy to the Supreme Council. Well, there can't be that there's no one in the state who can think of some rich private factory and this terricone that. 100,000 are suffering from this. And another small appeal to the Antimonopoly Committee of the Lviv Region regarding the replacement of counters for gas. You know, all the anti-monopoly committees in all the areas admitted that this artificially engineered substitute for gas counters and trust where people bought their counters for their own money were replacing them with fakes, the only area that said it was people who had to do it at their own expense. The head of the district administration and the head of the antitrust committee may also need to be influenced. And I'd like you to consider that my deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u97	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u98	Please consider this my MP's appeal to the Antimonopoly Committee to order it at last with Lvivobgas and the Antimonopoly Committee of the Lviv Region. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u99	Since there's been a call to me about the situation at the Red-Croat Mining Factory, I have to answer what really is, I've been checking the state of things that are happening there right now. The central enrichment plant was privatized by a company in Lugansk, which actually belongs to the Royal Family. Today, this Central Enriching Factory is bankrupt and is in the process of being rehabilitated because of tax and congregation failure to pay taxes to the state budget and debt, particularly to rescue workers. Rescuers and special services, who are obliged to put out fires on tericons, did not do so on time because of the debt they owed before. the debt of the factory itself. Now the fire is extinguished by the forces that are, the work is still going on. But until the factory is built, until it is either transferred to the other owner or to the state budget, it will not be possible for the state budget to count the costs for these works to be done more intensively, this situation will not be resolved. So this appeal must be to the government to provide additional funds to put out the fires on the turquoise. Please, National Deputy Yuri Solovay, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u100	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, Repent. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to a problem that virtually every day is felt by dozens, if not hundreds, of thousands of Ukrainians. These are queues at Ukrainian customs checkpoints, especially in western Ukraine. If you go to any point of entry right now, the turn at this point of the pass is tens of miles. How does the average Ukrainian who tries to go to Europe feel? It's called one word: humiliation. Does it have the right to exist a state that humiliates its citizens? I think the answer is quite obvious. And that's why I'm addressing it, and I'm asking you to consider it an official appeal to the State Fiscal Service, to the Ukrainian Border Service immediately to order the checkpoints. This problem is particularly urgent before summer and the rest season. Very many Ukrainian citizens plan their vacations in Bulgaria, in other countries abroad, and have to spend tens of hours in queues, in Ukraine’s pass points, either with Poland or with Hungary or with Romania. Another problem that, in addition to the unsatisfactory work of customs and the foreign service, is the so - called transit transport equipment that travels and enters Ukraine every three months to confirm the status of Ukrainian residence. And that's why I want to remind all the Ukrainians that this week the Supreme Council has probably passed this cadence, the most important bill that is felt not by some narrow corporate people, but by every Ukrainian. The Supreme Council voted in favour of a bill that reduces the cost of clearing used cars. And the solution to this problem is to remove another problem -- what is called transit transport, the vast majority of which are caused by large queues on the borders. And that's why I'm primarily addressing the President of Ukraine, and I know that 30 thousand petitions have been signed by Ukrainian citizens on the adoption of this bill, and it's very good that the Supreme Council has accepted it. I also say that I am confident that the President of Ukraine also supports Ukrainian citizens and will sign this bill in the shortest possible time. Thank you all. Have a good weekend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u101	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the national deputy Borislav Berezu, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u102	I'd like to address Mr. Vitali Klick and the kyans. I understand that Mr. Klitschko now has no interest in what's going on in Kiev, otherwise he would be dealing with Kiev, dealing with Kiev. We see Kiev's lawless structure, we see aunts who are funded by the KMD, who are beating the Chinese and KMDA deputies. We can see how man’s contemplation leads to the fact that the Chinese no longer live but survive in their own city. But we also see that Mr. Klitschko was present in Kiev for 365 days that year for 100 days. I believe that if Mr. Klitschko is unable to perform his duties, he should report it to the Chinese, but if he can, let him focus on Kiev. Because now Kiyevrada is being blocked by deputies, there's going to be a home invasion in Kiev, and Mr. Klitschko is somewhere at a conference on AIDS. I understand that AIDS is a plague of the 21st century, but I also understand that Mr. Klitschko may be preparing for the election, so he is now traveling around the world and communicating with his partners. Mr. Klitschko, you have not been chosen as a goodwill ambassador, not an AIDS negotiator, you have been elected mayor of the city, please go back to Kiev and ask questions. In Kiev, there are no district heads. In Kiev, the land is demolished, Kiev is built so that we will soon see that Kiev is already a village called Kiev. We are still in the fourteenth place of comfort in Kiev. in Ukraine, but we don't even enter a hundred by the comfort of living in the world, we're behind some African capitals. Perhaps Mr. Clicko doesn't know about this, because where he lives, he's fine. I'd like to speak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenk. Mr. Yuri Vitaliyovich, you must stand in defense of the kyans. Because the Darnicki District Attorney’s Office has been informed that it refuses to file an appeal regarding the halting of a construction site on Kacha’s lake. Why? Because they are very well-motivated by some Kiyevrada deputies, and that is why the prosecutor's office is still not filing an appeal. Mr. Lucenko, I ask you to consider this as my MP's request and to respond to this, to see why it is the prosecutor of the Darnicki district who is ignoring his duties and why he is in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u103	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u104	And it's still building, and what we see is lawlessness and permissiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputies of Lev Podlisecki, "The Self-Help Union"
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u106	Honourable MPs, Ukrainian citizens, I would like to say about a situation that occurred just a few months ago when the NCRE KP was adopted, the regulator made a decision that obliges us all, Ukrainian citizens, to drop 10 billion dollars for some officials or businessmen. What is it? On March 3, there was a decision to attach the cost of electricity to the price of coal in the port of Rotterdam plus delivery to Ukraine. The total cost of the new coal price will be about $60 in Ukraine, which is 1,000 500 dollars. Given that about 25 million tons of coal is consumed in Ukraine, and the $15 component, which is, as a minimum, a corruption component that increases, disproportionately and unjustifiably increases the cost of coal, this sum is 10 billion dollars. This actually gives a huge advantage to the DTEK company that uses the most coal in Ukraine today to produce electricity, actually from this type of fuel. But this company has its own mines and uses its own coal, its own production. In fact, it says that this is not about increasing the importance of Ukrainian coal production in government mines. Regrettably, the Lviv Coal Basin does not sell coal, neither sells coal, for a thousand or a half years, nor sells for two thousand, since there is no market at all. Very large sums will be made by those officials who are cruising, who are taking coal out of the mines in the occupied territories and selling it to Centrenergo. Sadly, there is another result of the decision. DTEK’s bond cost rose by 40 percent. How do we know that these bonds have been purchased in recent months by ICU, which has actually benefited from the decision made by Mr. Vuk. One more thing I'd like to say is that last week there was a competition for the appointment of director of Ukrenergo, and it's been the tenth day that the manager has not been approved. They've been chosen for an open competition. It is a test of some kind of compliance with the position of government official. There's a suspicion that the successful experience that was used by the Crucifixion Company regarding the appointment of an independent, powerful open-air specialist doesn't want to be repeated. So I'd like to ask the public to monitor this process so Ukrenergo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u107	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u108	So that Ukrenergo will also be in line with the Crucifixion Company, which has great potential for development and efficient work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u109	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Sergey Sage, faction of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u110	Good afternoon! One of the speakers here was that there are no representatives of the Opposition Block in this room. That's not true, they are. I, as a national deputy of Ukraine, have received numerous appeals from citizens of forced displaced persons from the territory of carrying out an anti-terrorist operation that has been denied social benefits and pensions. There has been a massive illegal halt in the collection of evidence against temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine and areas of anti-terrorist operations by the Directorate of Social Protection. Since the beginning of the year, internally displaced persons from Lugansk and Donetsk regions throughout Ukraine have been left without payment of monthly targeted life - support. Think about it. For four months, people don't get any money to survive. Although this is enshrined in Orders 505 and 509 of the Cabinet of Ministers. The reason for this is the absence of an internally displaced image of the immigration service. On December 24, 2015, the Supreme Council passed the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening guarantees of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. On January 13, 16th, the law came into force, the new edition was called upon to strengthen the guarantees of respect for the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons and to simplify the procedure for the calculation of such persons. It should be noted that the provisions of this law are mandatory for implementation throughout Ukraine and should be a priority when making any decision on the social protection of migrants. The Ministry and other central executive authorities should carry out their normative acts in accordance with this law. The law states that the collection aid for internally displaced persons is untimely and does not require the State Migration Service to record the residence of displaced persons. However, the community’s social protection authorities require the settlers to make this mark, and the State Migration Service, on the basis of the legal coalition, says that it does not make such a mark. This legal coalition has led to the fact that thousands of internally displaced persons living in a subterranean territory have been unable to receive legal benefits, despair, and contempt for justice for more than four months. At present, we demand that all legislative acts be amended in the shortest terms so that people can begin to receive their payments. I ask that you consider the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine to be an MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u111	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oleg Beresuk, the Self-Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, this week was a very important week in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament. If you analyze it carefully, and I ask people to really spend time and analyze it, this is a week of strength and weakness in the Ukrainian Parliament, this is a week of strength and weakness in the Ukrainian oligarchic system. This week, Parliament, in overcoming resistance, fraud, fraud of the Ukrainian oligarchic system, adopts two small laws that Parliament adopts for the first time in a year and a year and a half, in a direct way, giving money to people and making them successful themselves, this is the Law on Medicine and this is the Act on Excise. And you all stayed here, you know, and you saw how it happened, how you didn't want to do it to the representatives of the oligarchic blocks in this room. But Parliament demonstrated power and did so. The truth is we are now looking forward to the signing of these laws as Head of the Supreme Council, hopefully already signed, and so is the President of Ukraine. Because it's going to be the weakness of the Ukrainian institution and the Ukrainian institutional state. But this Parliament yesterday saw the power of the oligarchic system, when 335 deputies voted for constitutional changes, for changes to the Basic Law, which, unfortunately, from the perspective of the self-help faction, today is not a document that guarantees human rights in Ukraine. Today, this document is, in our view, a guarantee of the inviolability of the Ukrainian oligarchic system as a reality. That's what, yeah, judges can be released, but where's the system for recruiting judges? Is it not the same as the previous president of the country who, under his rule, released hundreds of judges by appointing his own? Today this is done more cynically, and today it is done by means of a disregard for the basic law of the country and the hope of the people. Today, there is a trade in hopes that is unacceptable. So we still have one thing -- to demand that laws that directly give money to people and make them successful in their activities in parallel to the state are signed and entered into force. And it is very important for us now that the public, people, clearly control whether the good sensations that will be recorded there will not be underestimated by the vile, subtle affairs of the oligarchic system in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u113	Thank you. Welcome to Igor Lucenka's word. The Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u114	Thank you, colleague of Chubarov from the Peter Dusty Block, who gave me his word on a very important subject. Dear friends, I will never stop talking about this subject -- it's an investigation into the Maydan case, the crimes that have been committed against the courtmen in Yanukovich's time. There is probably not the Attorney General who has not promised in tears that everything will be investigated, that the crimes will be punished, and that today's President will not forget to mention it. However, today there is a huge problem with the real failure to investigate the Mayan case. Everyone knows that the left hand side of the Maidan case is concentrated in the Department of Special Investigations led by Mr. Gorbathuk. To this day, this administration is faced with enormous investigation problems for unknown reasons. In particular, during 2015 this administration, which was limited to about 60 investigators during this period, was transferred to the court no more than 13 indictments concerning police personnel, zero from the prosecutor’s office. At the same time, other investigators in other structural departments of the prosecutor’s office handed over 78 indictments in court. Thus it can be said that for unknown reasons the work of this administration is being blocked. The new Attorney General, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, promised that he would reform the work of this administration. Instead, what do we see instead of reforms? In spite of the principles of transparency and openness of the appointment of prosecutorial officers, we see the appointment of ex-police officer Zuprik Igor Volodymirovich, who during Janukovitch worked as one of the management positions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who was directly involved in the production of cases against Maidan. Does this not mean that Mr. Zuprik will investigate the case against himself, against his former colleagues? What's going on? I want these words to be an MP's call to Yuri Vitaliyovich Luzenka of the Attorney-General to make public Mr. Zuprik's entire work path and to make it clear that this appointment for one of the key positions in the Special Investigations Department was faithful and well-founded. I cannot help but say that in the Parliament since August 2015 (there will be a year soon) the creation of a special commission of inquiry to investigate the obstacles to investigating the crimes against Maidan has been blocked. Parliamentarians don't want to allow this kitchen, they don't want to give parliamentarians the opportunity to help investigators get to the truth. And we know how many problems now and the financial plan, and the organizational plan is being done so that there is no investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u115	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u116	So that there will be no investigation into the crimes of past seniors and there will be no investigation into the crimes of the militia and other law enforcement agencies against the rangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u117	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Borislav Rosenblatt, "Block of Petra Poroshenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u118	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! I want to continue the talk that was being heard today as a question to Mr. Habakkuk's minister. But I just want to share with you the details of this incident that happened in the village of Revival in the middle of the morning. People worked illegally, illegally, but on their land, digging up state wealth. I've been working with them for several years, and I want to pay your attention, a ceremony like the Ship's -- "ship" in the people is called where they always dig with pumps. And so these people who worked in the village of Ovište, they come to the police and they say, "What right do you have to dig here?".. They say, "You know, they dig there too, but no one comes there because there's people standing there, paying money and working pumps day and night, but they pay $650 a pop." Militia rides, and within an hour six Jeeps arrive (all Crimean registration: Sevastopol, Simferopol) and begin to frighten people with weapons, firearms. But people there, you know, by this time they already have opportunities, and they already have their resilience. And the result is that overturned jeeps, four people injured in the hospital, are running with guns in the woods. And that's what we have in mind and life. And then we keep saying we need legalization. We will continue to discuss some incomprehensible situations related to laws and lawlessness, but life continues. And this is blood, human blood. And instead of doing everything we can to get people to work legally, we have the opportunity to fill the state budget, we're filling the pockets of thieves and bandits who are now at the top of our power structures. I mean, we only have a chance to do everything in the legislative field. For this there are laws, four laws that have been pending for a year in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in conclusion, I'd like to. I know the materials that the black pierre is spreading about me today. But I would like to turn, not for myself, but for the sake of the inhabitants. You know, the natives know very well the name of all the streets that are in Zitomir today. And they distinguish where Korostišovska Street, and where Berdičivska Street, and most importantly, the inhabitants of Žitomir are called Zitomirians, not Zitomirs. So when you write materials, be careful because you touch the dignity and pride of the city of Zitomir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u119	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Yuri Derevyanka, who is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u120	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear Mrs. Oksano, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, with a grave violation of the Rules, the Law on Justice and the Status of Judges was passed and the Constitution was amended in the section of Justice. Everyone knows that the bill had more than 100 articles, and in such cases the Rules require voting in both first and second readings. Instead, we saw the rapid extension of this law. This means that in implementing one of the most important reforms, judicial reform, a mine has been laid. After all, there is no doubt anyone who would want to sue the Constitutional Court for the unconstitutionality of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Two years in a row, the Will Party is in favour of full re-establishment of the judiciary, full cleansing of all corrupt courts and full re-loading of all, without exception, from the lowest to the Supreme Court. And we think that this reform should have been done much earlier. But not in such an imperfect and involved way as was done yesterday. The Will Party is firmly opposed to those points of the Constitution, which provide, firstly, for the President to be given too wide an authority on the influence of justice, namely, to have the right to form, reorganize and eliminate courts for a period of two years, not only to appoint all judges, but to transfer one judge from court to court. Secondly, we are opposed to narrowing the constitutional right of people to legal protection. Because if it was possible before without any legal question to appeal to a court, it is now only if there is a legal dispute, a legal dispute, or criminal conduct. Thirdly, we are opposed to monopolizing the legal aid right. Because lawyers' services are expensive enough and can be inaccessible to most of our Ukrainian citizens. Fourthly, the Supreme Council of Justice is a constitutional body and we also oppose the authorization of constitutional bodies, which is the authorization of the government, the President, the Supreme Council, and, including the Supreme Council of Justice, to regulate not only the Constitution, but also the rules of law, in particular, the ordinary laws. I want to remind you that the President has the right to veto any law. This means that such laws can only be passed if the President likes it. There is no doubt that this vote was a general rehearsal before the vote on the amendments to the Constitution regarding Donbas. Dear colleagues, 335 votes, of which 38 by the Party of the Regions, mean that they have received even greater immunity to investigate the criminal cases that are now against them. That is why I am addressing all journalists, the public, very closely monitoring the next steps of judicial reform and doing everything I can to ensure that this reform does not become the same as the reform of the prosecutor's office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u121	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Aresonkova, "Block of Peter Poroshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u122	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, speaking to the virtually empty hall, unfortunately, I would like more now to address the leaders of the local self-government bodies of our country, the rural, rural, urban heads, the heads of state executive authorities on a reform issue that is also extremely important. What we're talking about is this so-called reform of decentralization of power, or the search for a new, more efficient model of government in the state. The issue of the transfer of authority and the primary responsibility for what is happening in all parts of Ukraine is to the level of the territorial communities, where people and the leaders who will choose the territorial communities will be responsible for solving the issues of territory's viability, solving problems and so forth. What does this have to do with us today? Undoubtedly, reform seems to have begun, we have the first laws that allow us to take steps, but unfortunately, there has been some slowing down of all of this. There was a vacuum in the solution, and it is not only about the fact that a number of laws have not been passed at the level of our superior legislative body. I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to pass laws on the transfer of authority to land management outside of populated areas, and it's going to be adopted. We are dealing with rural affairs and other issues, but I would now like to point out that we have done very little work to convince the current rural heads of those who are operating in the territories today of the need for these reforms. And this was confirmed by, let's say, the last month when we in Zitomirst conducted studies with rural heads, village heads, we met with newly elected leaders of the territorial communities. You know, there's a lot of misunderstandings, people either don't want to take these steps, or don't understand how to do it? Of course, there is a need for financial, economic confirmation that they will be able to resolve matters in their territories. I mean, today, dear colleagues, we have to make a decision for ourselves. If we're moving in this direction, let's now activate this work, let's meet, let's discuss, convince each other that this is the most effective management model today, and this reform is absolutely necessary. But let us do our utmost to build it up with practical things, so that it can be successfully implemented. I wish us all success in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u123	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Sergio Soboljeva, "The Self-Help Union." Oh, Jehora Soboleva, God. Jehora Soboljeva please, "Unification Self-Help."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u124	Madam Chairman, the members of the Supreme Council, who are in the hall, ask permission to meet at the rostrum, it's not a blockage, it's a demonstration to the people who work, it's a demonstration to the people who don't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u125	[[From the Hall]] That's very nice. I think it's very right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Hopefully, we hope. All right, everybody, let's see how many people are in the room. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u126	Regrettably, these are all the representatives of society in the Supreme Council on Friday 13.45.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u127	Yes, please, Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u128	I'll be brief. Everyone knows and many people are following up on the investigation that began with the Anti-Corruption Bureau on the so-called "black accounting" of the Party of Regions, the published lists of issuing and receiving bribes by many officials, among whom the most famous and famous society for today, is the head of Central Elections, Mikhail Ohendowski. A few words on this point. First. To the President of Ukraine, it is already a sin to lie to parliament, so to deceive people, so to lie to international partners. I've already lost my medicine myself, how many times did Peter Poroshenko say, "Well, in a day or two, I'm going to represent the Supreme Council of New Candidates for Central Elections. The preservation of Mikhail Ohendowski after the published information with his signature that he received bribes from the Party of the Regions, from the "black accounting", is more than a disgrace, it can't be described in any more words. Mr. President, don't make us come to the Election Center and force us to banish Michael Hendowski. One more thing about this black accounting investigation. I very much believe that the Anti-Corruption Bureau detectives can untangle these strings. Of course, the big problem is that it's already known to all society, and now these threads are circumcised, they're wiped out, people can just run away from the country or clean up. But we're all going to help make the Anti-Corruption Bureau detectives have full independence, and they have enough powers under the law and enough money to investigate the case. But there's another problem: who's going to be the court that's going to give them a search warrant, an interrogation, an arrest, and I'm not going to tell them about the sentences? So the Self-Help faction, together with the public, will continue to seek the creation of a specialized anti-corruption court in Ukraine. Although a few decent judges -- and we suggest that they be the judges of the United States, the European Union, who are now destroying corruption there -- at least a few decent judges will be able to break a circular message that now prevails in the courts. We fought for it, and we will continue to fight. And to the detectives of the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Great Success!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u129	Thank you. Welcome to Sergey Leschchenka's word, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u130	Good afternoon, my friends! As I go on speaking, I want to say that this week, indeed, there have been events that will have consequences for our Ukrainian politics, I'm sure, for many years or decades. For the first time, we saw what shadow politics looks like, how corruption affects our political existence. We, the Ukrainian Truth Journalists, and I, as a deputy, have published the shadow accounting of the Party of the Regions. We only have 22 pages. That's what we had on our hands, and we published all the documents without any bills. Much more than 900 pages, Mr. Trepak, the former deputy head of the BSS, transferred to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which is currently conducting the investigation. What we've seen can be seen by every citizen by opening the Ukrainian Truth website on the relevant material and reading in detail what kind of money they've spent. Hundreds of millions of dollars went to politics, including bribes by members of the Central Election Commission, bribes by deputies, to pay for propaganda, just ginsa on TV channels, to win over members of the coalition, and so on. And this ordinary discovery will have consequences. We shouldn't be doing so much politics in Ukraine, it's got to be the kind of vaccination that will make our policies cleaner and the kind of punishment that will result from this discovery, they have to influence those next politicians who will try and push corruption money into our Supreme Council again and again. At five o’clock this evening, I will be questioned by the National Anticorruption Bureau on this matter as a witness. I think it's very right that they opened up the lead. I don't see any signs of persecution here, but I think it's an honor to be in this interrogation, and I hope that the investigation that will result from the investigation will be punished by the most loud criminals, the loudest cases will be investigated. We shouldn't chase for, you know, $100 transactions there, and millions of dollars for corruption should be discovered. And of course what's going on has to finally answer the question whether it's going to be like this in Ukraine, or whether it's going to be a deligarchization policy that's going to go bankrupt. It's been a year since we've been declared delligarchized throughout the country. You remember the loud words spoken a year ago from all the rostrums, as the President said no more oligarchs would enter and hang their rights. We see that, on the one hand, in the back door, Colomoysky comes to the President's Administration, to Kabmin, as his faction votes for Henprocuror, as Prime Minister, yesterday for changes to the Constitution. And in the same faction, Mr. Geller, who is in this "black accounting", votes in favour of all these appointments. And of course, that's the first sign that deligarchization policy, that was just a duck. Renat Ahmethov was speaking, a self-help colleague told how with a special formula for coal, extremely high profits, profits, corruption gains come out of the Ukrainian economy in the interests of an oligarch. "The will of the people" is also the absence of a faction in this room, which, on account of the gas tools, is enriching and trying to put its people on the company "The Crushing." All that's going on is the signs that delligarchization policy was a bankruptcy and we have to do everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u131	Ten seconds, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u132	We have to do everything we can to get after the publication of the MPA paper after we've seen it in our policy, that delligarchization policy has really happened, and society will be our main ally in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Vitali Korchik, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u134	Friends, respected TV viewers, I would like to draw attention to the more landed, perhaps problems, just the condition of road coverings on Ukrainian highways, which are in very bad condition. And even though an unprecedented amount of money has been allocated this year, namely 19 billion dollars still by the government at the head of Arsenius Yatzenyuk, we can also allocate 50, but if we don't keep the highways in the state that we have now, we can't do anything with their repairs. This involves overloading large cars by 2-3 or more, and this is what will take place in the summer when our Ukrainian crops are harvested. As a faction of the People's Front, we decided to help bring the matter to order and to register Bills 4660 and 4661. These bills carry the following. According to European practice, both the car carrier and the customer of the goods and the owner of the vehicle must be responsible for the transfer of the goods. Sadly, though, the situation that is now in Ukraine shows that only motorists who create conditions or connections are largely responsible, or we will take someone else. Unfortunately, for several weeks now we've been trying to put these two bills into order. Regrettably, the Supreme Council has failed to vote in favour of such possible changes. So I ask every elector who sees the bad state of the road and sees his deputy, to ask him why he doesn't vote for Ukrainian highways to be in satisfactory condition. The result of poor coverage is that bumps on the road are also the safety of road traffic. I want to remind you that a few weeks ago we had a road safety week in Ukraine. And this reason, when there's a bad condition of highways, is one of the reasons why accidents happen, along with speeding, along with people getting drunk and driving. I want to support my colleague, Andrew Teteruk, who passed the law that we worked with this week on the increase in fines. But with this increase in fines, I'd like each of us to start with ourselves and realize that road safety is one of the most important things because we still have a lot to do with road safety to make sure that kids don't even run on the road. That's why I'm asking everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u135	Ten seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u136	Please begin with each of us colleagues to increase the safety of road traffic on Ukrainian highways and to keep those highways in satisfactory condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u137	Thank you. Welcome to Yuri Lewchenko's word, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u138	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Dear Ukrainian people! This week, there was a new anti-national decision of the Supreme Council, which will first touch negative 90 percent of the Ukrainian people, and will write positively by 1-2 percent of the people. It's about the so-called changes to the Constitution in part of justice, a lot about who talks about it, someone talks about it and it's very optical, you know, it goes through the sharp corners, someone votes for it. Those who voted in favour and told the lie openly that it was a positive reform. I'd like to use these few minutes to define, try to plot the general negatives in this reform so that everyone knows the truth. You can actually talk about it for hours, well, let's try to get into it in two minutes, society. First of all, it's essential to me personally. This reform introduces the dictatorship of the bar. Now no Ukrainian can defend himself in the courts except through the use of a paid lawyer. What does that mean? This means that 90 percent of the people who barely make ends meet will simply not have any protection in the relevant courts. And the courts are obviously corrupt, so they can't even reach these corrupt courts. So the courts are just cutting them off. This is now prescribed for us, society, in the Constitution. I think it's going to be six months, and every Ukrainian is going to feel the result of such a rule on his own skin, actually. It also introduces a rule that the courts have jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the courts extends only to so - called legal disputes. That's what I'm quoting from the new Constitution. What is a legal dispute or not a legal dispute will determine, in fact, the court itself, yes. He says, "It's not a legal dispute, I'm not going to look at it, go away, actually." Well, that's why the courts continue to shut down the people and turn into a bureau of power. But in addition to that, it is said that this reform will provide an opportunity to clean up the courts and introduce them. Run new judges and so on. In fact, it's not true, because for 3 years before April 2019 the old Council of Justice, well, or what it will now be called, the High Council of Justice, in which the President will control directly, in fact, through his faction, through the Attorney-General, through other mechanisms will control directly 7 members, and four members that will be needed to make decisions can easily give, for example, the People's Front, can give the Minister of Justice, can give the Head of the Supreme Court and so on, that is, the President controls the Higher Council of Justice. And this time, these three years will be used for one to use these rules as a substitute for corrupt judges. (Please, 30 seconds, Oksano, if you please.) This period will be used to use seemingly positive rules to replace corrupt judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u139	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u140	through the loud Justice Council to create a fully, 100% controlled judiciary. This is the truth of this constitutional reform, the venerable Ukrainian people. And I hope that each of you will check who voted for her. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u141	Thank you. And the last performance is the People's Deputy Martovicki, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u142	Respectable citizens of Ukraine and respected colleagues! To prepare this statement, I was moved by the Minister of Education's concept of reform of secondary education in our country, according to references to me as the national deputy of Ukraine to the leaders of the secondary educational institutions of my constituency number 36 (this is Pavlovgradščina), the parental committees, the school's declared reform is of great concern to them. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that any changes have to do with a significant transformation in human psychology, and in this case, they are teachers, especially students. Of course, the upbringing and quality education of our growing generations is the guarantee of the future of the entire state because they, our children and grandchildren build a new European country. Yet, the examples of Germany and other European Union countries in Ukraine are now, in my opinion, unacceptable. Since all school programs have long needed radical changes, a host of subjects have a reproductive nature set aside for simple remembering, so it is necessary to reduce the number of subjects, to build up discipline in order to avoid duplication. And I also point out that right now our secondary education doesn't have enough material base for the quality of our children's education. In particular, there is a huge shortage of textbooks, which accounts for up to 50 percent, a shortage of modern school equipment, the equipment of professional offices, and so forth. This reform will greatly increase the number of young people with incomplete secondary education that will require vocational education and work skills for the rest of their lives. But today's level of vocational education in Ukraine does not provide a basis for optimism, especially as today's Law on Support for Vocational and Technical Institutions, which is dedicated to the President, and they are now financed solely by local budgets, which is not enough. Experts and teachers themselves have now calculated that Mrs. Greenevich's proposed reform of secondary education will be out of work as a result of cuts or optimizations, according to reports, of over 10,000 secondary school staff. Honorary colleagues, the vast majority of teachers of the educational institutions in Ukraine, do not understand Mrs. Greenevich’s words as minister, the purpose of the school is to learn to live, to solve life’s problems, and not to give a lot of knowledge, to think about it. What, then, does the state no longer need highly educated professionals, inventors, scientists, managers, and skilled workers? Our country has more than 3 percent of the most gifted children, the winners of various international Olympics. And what ministers have said about the beginning of the reform points to a direct path to other countries where they can realize their scientific and creative potential, leaving the country without further development and without future development. I'm asking everyone to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-03-m0.u143	Thank you. Thank you to all the deputies who participated in the discussion of "different." The morning session is closed. The next meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on June 14th at 10 a.m.
