ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! I'd like my colleagues to take their seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're starting our work. Dear colleagues, on January 28, 1992, the Supreme Council approved the State Flag of Ukraine. I think it's a crucial day in the history of our country, and I want to welcome us all with this day. And I want our State Flag to be a symbol of democracy, of freedom, of success, of economic growth, of a successful country, of successful people. And I think that Parliament has a very important role to play here. Dear colleagues, today is a very busy day, a lot of laws. I would like to emphasize that one of the main issues is the question of making changes to the Constitution in part of justice. The question is extremely important, and I think today it will find support in the session room. I think everyone is aware that the change in the justice system has matured a long time ago, and it is constitutional change that will make this process irreversible. I would like to emphasize that the changes that have taken place in the bill that we will be considering today envision a return to the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to express mistrust to the Attorney-General, i.e. a strengthening of parliamentary control itself. And I think it's completely objective. Today, too, you and I have an orderly array of humanitarian issues, cultural issues. I am counting on us to work effectively today to consider as much as possible the important draft laws that Ukraine and society need. I would also like to inform you that, at the end of February, early March in the European Parliament, Brussels, there will be a Ukrainian week to which the requested leadership of the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, all the heads of the committees of the Ukrainian Parliament, will be held. This will be a very important event where you and I present a number of important decisions, including reforms, internal reform of Parliament. There will be a summary report at this Ukrainian week in Brussels by the distinguished Pet Cox, who heads the support group and the European Parliament on reform of the Ukrainian Parliament, our colleague. And I am convinced that this reform is an unprecedented and real implementation of this reform will allow us to change the quality of the Ukrainian Parliament, restore confidence in parliamentaryism and enhance the role of the Ukrainian Parliament in the life of our country. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:06:03]] 323 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleague, traditionally, with the birthday of Peter Mikhailovich Vanata. Congratulations, dear colleague, on your best wishes for good and health.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u2	Let's move on to the agenda. The first question that we have is 3097: a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the provision of calculations in a fuel-energy complex for a state-owned enterprise called the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate. And there's a suggestion from the reporter that we look at the simplified procedure. Colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I propose that the bill be reviewed in a simplified manner. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, the workday has begun, concentrate, and we vote in favour of the cut-off procedure. Please. [[10:07:57]] For 106 Not everyone has felt the level of responsibility for this vote, but I ask once more of my respectable fellow MPs to come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, pay attention! Let us vote in favour of this issue in the summary procedure 37. I apologize, 3097, honourable colleagues, on the issue of short-term consideration. Let's support the vote, please. [[10:08:50]] For 131 It's much better, but it doesn't determine concentration. First, Andrew Volodymyrovich called, then me, and now we can go together. Well, here we are together, calling for you. Please, colleagues, summary procedure, please support. Vote, 3097, please. [[10:09:26]] For-136 Andrew Volodymyrovich, if you have the potential, use it. Who has the potential? Oh, Ivanchuk. Colleagues, you have been introduced with a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the provision of calculations in the energy and fuel complex Energoate. An extremely important question, I ask you to support its consideration of the reduced procedure in accordance with the committee's proposal. Can I have your Vote, colleagues, consideration of the reduced procedure, please support. Short-term review, please support. [[10:10:40]] For-151 That's better. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u4	The rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u5	The Honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the very common question in this room that we call "energy security." So perhaps from this list of energy security issues of Ukraine in the current sense, this bill is one of the most important. Because it's about financial stability and perspective, the strategic perspective of the state company Energoatom, both in 2016 and in the years to come. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2015, energy generated almost 60 percent of the electricity in Ukraine. Today, taking into account the problems of payments and calculations, the energy market has a total debt to the state-owned energy stock company Energoat is 15 billion dollars, of which the debt of the state-owned energy company Energoat was more than 10 billion dollars. I also want to focus on the fact that in 2014-2015 this debt of the state-owned enterprise, the energy market before Energoate, increased by almost 5 billion. We propose, and the committee unanimously supported this bill -- 3097 -- because since January 1st, the moratorium on business bankruptcy has ended. And for today, we have very negative effects, when the Energoatom accounts are blocked, the phones are blocked. And today there are attempts to artificially remove from the company huge amounts of debt that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u6	How much time do you have, please? Please finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u7	And today there is a desire for some companies to take off their artificial debts in hundreds of millions of dollars. I can only give you one example: on January 1st, we're running out of bankruptcy, and on January 5th, the government executives of the Ministry of Justice have already begun to demand bills for pseudo-bonds that were created in the early 1990s. I can give an example of one company when I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u8	One more minute, please. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u9	When the total debt is 2.5 million, the difference is a million 200 dollars, and they want to take nearly 120 artificially folded millions out of the Energoatom. So there is a request to support Bill 3097, to extend the moratorium until the end of 2016, and to do everything possible to make Energoat a viable organization, including on the basis of calculations, on those objective debts that I hope the national deputies will talk about today from this rostrum. Please, the committee proposes to support the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please sign in. Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Levko Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u12	The Self-Help faction will definitely support the adoption of the bill as a whole. But I would like to highlight one point. As reported by Mr. Dombrovski, in fact, the debt owed to Energoatoma has a state-owned energy company, and there is a corresponding amount of nonsensus when one state-owned enterprise owes to another state-owned enterprise. And here's the question, in fact, in the government of the state as a whole. And here's a question to the government: how can we allow 5. increasing the debt to Energoatoma, which is the key structure in the generation of electricity by 5 billion dollars? This is a big, big question for the government. That's why we support the adoption of this bill as a basis and as a whole in order to really protect an enterprise that's both right and right for Ukraine, and that's what we've actually come out of this hot season without being shut down, without being shut down, and hopefully that's what's going to happen. That is why we support, but we ask the government to work more effectively and to avoid such distortions in wages and to allow such debts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u13	Thank you. Olena Kondratjuk, All-Ukrainian Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u14	Ivchenk, please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u15	Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u16	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of the bill. But I would like to make an official appeal from the Fatherland faction regarding the colossal corruption of Energoatom. What are we doing today? We're doing what we're doing today is we're disposing of real firms that put real services and goods in Energoatoma or in the state company Atomcomplex, take their money away. Let me give you an example. The Ukriwestergo launched 14 million engines in 2014. According to premeditated facts, although there's an act of savagery, the year Atomcomplet is not calculated, although in all of the almost executed tenders, large amounts of money were found in 2015, and it was calculated. And other things. Small companies that are constantly doing services directly in the Atomcomplex are faced with the fact that they don't take jobs or have colossal fines on them. Of the 2.2 million who, for example, received a certain company, only received 1 million 800, everything else went to fines. I'll give you other examples when it's just in manual mode that they decide who to give money to and who not. I'd like the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to take a direct look at the facts that are being paid, why these companies are being paid, why not. And I would like us to understand that there are, indeed, companies that provide services directly to Energoat and Atomcomplet. And today we're depriving them of their appeal to the court, then the discovery of executive leadership to collect their own funds. I understand you when 86 accounts are arrested out of 126 that are available. But believe me, this is how we can hit those companies that have reputably reliable suppliers of products. And that's how we're going to help those corruption workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u17	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u18	And so we can help those corrupts who allocate financial resources to these companies. We vote, and you mean not to hit companies that have some status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u19	Thank you. Novak Natalia Vasilovna, "Peter Prashenko's Block." From where, from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u20	Dear Chairman! Deputies! In fact, there's a problem with the Energoate, and we understand how important this is to the power plant in Ukraine. But we're already transferring the moratorium to. First year. And instead of hearing how bad things are, and we have to save Energoat, I'd like to hear what concrete steps have been taken to heal this company, whether there's a schedule of progressive debt repayment for Energoatum. Knowing that it's one of the most corrupt companies there has been and the hardware and calculation frauds, we should also hear if criminal cases have been broken, how these criminal cases are handled. So today, really, understanding that we need to be supported, I would like to get information and to say more in the presentation, and when this debt will be repaid, and when the guilt will finally be punished for what has been going on for many years with Energoatoma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Nasalik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u22	Dear friends! Electricity is the basis of the economy of all of Ukraine. Today, nearly 55 percent of electricity supply is involved. But it's not just the Energoatom. The problem is both Centrenergo and, of course, you're going to have to think about something again in order not to bankrupt this company. That's why I want to support my colleagues -- both Novak and Podlisecki and Ivchenko -- that the problems that arise are probably the problem with the Minister of Fuel and Energy himself, which is called the Minister of Energy and Coal. There and there are problems. As the manager of this person, he's going straight to zero in Kelvin. Maybe he can ask the question, not that the Supreme Council would wipe his feet, but that he would report and what he'd done for that state for the past year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, the discussion of this bill is concluded, and there is full unity in the room in support of this bill. So I ask all my fellow members of the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues in the towers, please enter the hall, who is in the hall, so that we can start our work. Ready? So I'm putting a signal vote on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the provision of calculations in the fuel-energy complex (number 3097). The Society, the signal vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote. 3097, emergency. [[10:23:00]] For-189 High potential. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, I'm asking you to maximize the number of individual factions, I'm asking you to call the deputies into the hall. In fact, all the factions support us, except for one bill. It's just a lack of voices. Colleagues! I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please take up your jobs. The author of the bill is asked to discipline his faction, to influence his colleagues positively by faction. My colleagues, I'll bet you again. Are you in the hall? Did you take up jobs? So please prepare for the vote. It is very difficult for us to start a work day in the morning, and today we have very important questions. I'm putting the vote on again, 3097. I'm asking you to take your seats and please take part in the vote. So, a signal vote, 3097. Please vote. [[10:25:29]] For 215 Potential is literally squandering. We're short a few deputies. I'm asking you to include factions so that the factions' heads can be oriented and visible. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, we're missing literally a few votes. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Colleagues! Have you been immobilized? Heads of factions, may I put them to the vote? Have you gathered a special warehouse? I'm betting once again on a 3097 vote: the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the provision of calculations in the fuel and energy complex. Please be careful. Please prepare and participate in the signal vote. 3097, signal vote. Please vote, colleagues, vote. [[10:26:55]] For 224 Finally, people took up their jobs. Now, I'm off the alert. Fellows, don't call me, but keep your discipline in factions so that people don't wander around the hall, they're as close to their jobs as possible, because Parliament is not a place to walk, it's a place to work. Prepared, took up jobs. Yes, colleagues, please be careful. I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to secure calculations in a fuel and energy complex on a state-owned enterprise called the National Atomic Energy Company Energoatoma as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote and support. Colleagues, be careful. Vote. Please vote. Turn on the voting system. [[10:28:07]] For 235 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafter of the bill, welcome to the teams. The author's closing statement is very much requested. Please, Mr. Dombrowski, one minute from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u24	Dear friends, dear fellow national MPs! I want to thank you for your support, and I want to say that there are huge amounts of problems in energy. We had a very difficult conversation yesterday at a committee meeting with the Minister of Fuel and Energy. We have decided on the Minister's report and on the report of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy at a committee meeting, where we will be able to discuss all the problems, including the serious corruption problems that are in any direction of energy activity. And I invite all the national MPs to participate actively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got two bills of inclusion in the agenda here, but they're actually going through a tough discussion right now. And so I move on to the next item of the agenda, an important draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the activities of military and civilian administrations. An extremely important bill. We need to continue with the work of the military and civilian administrations so that the vertical of the Ukrainian government can function clearly and effectively on the front line. So I ask everyone to be responsible and consider the bill carefully. But first of all, at the request of the authors and the committee, I propose that we consider it as a reduced procedure. So, 3177, thank you, summary procedure, please support. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:30:31]] For 169 Decision taken. Thank you for your support. And the report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u26	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, distinguished Ukrainian people, we all know that the question of the implementation of the powers of military and civilian administrations is very important for normalizing the vitality of the population in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation. That is why the draft Law 3177-d aims to regulate and harmonise the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Civil and Military Administrations with the provisions of the current legislation of Ukraine in view of the practical action that has been taken, I emphasize the practical, I emphasize the practical experience of the application and organization of the activities of the VCA itself. I want to inform you that this law has been carefully worked out on the committee, very many proposals from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority have been taken into account, the conclusions and proposals of other deputies have been taken into account. The most important changes to the bill are made to the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Civil War Administrations. For example, article 1 of the bill introduces separate clarifications and editorials, giving a more complete definition of the military-civil administration of the population. Questions concerning the definition of military and civil administrations by a legal person of public law have been clarified in part of the features of the state registration of VCA population sites and are supplemented by a new paragraph of the following content: "The regional and district public administrations that have acquired VCA status do not need to re-register as legal persons of public law." Article 3 “VCA Organization” of the bill introduces clarifications and additions that specify the organizational and the time when the VCA is formed and the powers of the relevant councils are terminated. The question of the replacement of military officers from the military formations of government officials, without excluding them from the lists of special forces, has been clarified. Therefore, given the importance of the changes that are being proposed, and their urgency, I ask that the bill be supported as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u27	Thank you. Please prepare for the recording and please record for discussion: two for, two against. Please. Leo Podlisecki, "Unification Self-Help." Passing Taras the Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u28	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. Our faction in its previous consideration did not support the bill. Today, we are ready to support him, but only in the first reading. Because, in our opinion, the bill did not settle, which were two things in the previous edition. First of all, today we rule out "transitional positions" and thus continue the operation of this law essentially to infinity. In the previous version, however, we restricted the law's operation for a year, but we gave the President our decree to continue it for a year, and we approved the decree by the Supreme Council. Our faction insists that this norm be left behind. This is the first moment. And the second moment, from the previous version of the bill, is the moment when the elimination of the military and civilian administrations takes place at the time of the acquisition of the powers of the newly elected councils. Now this function, and it is also excluded, remains, under the President's decree, the military-civil administrations are eliminated. So the new councils can turn, the president of the military and civilian administrations may not be eliminated. So we insist that the previous option still remain so that these things are voiced in. And it also needs a separate budget relationship, because today we're creating a monster in the territory of these two areas. These are military-civil administrations that develop budgets and socio-economic development programmes in the areas and areas concerned. These budgets are approved along with programs. These budgets are implemented, and then they report to themselves, without any actual control of this activity. So these things are also not regulated in this bill. These things can be settled in the second reading, so our faction will only support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I will now give the floor to Rybchin Alexia. But I would like the committee to immediately talk about whether the amendments that Taras Shepherd has made are possible so that we can vote on the law as a whole, it is very important. Aleksy’s Rib, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u30	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Last time this law was reported, the "Fatherland" faction expressed its position that we were outraged by the equipment that was applied last year to the city's head, the observer of the Donetsk region of Kuzmenka, a member of the "Fatherland". When he was effectively removed from his duties by creating this VCA, a man was placed there who, through the administrative resources, won the election, became the mayor of this city, and the VCA was canceled. This disgraceful device should never be repeated again. This time we're going to vote for this bill as well as "self-help," only on the first reading, because we need to redraft the bill for the second reading. But we want to point out that the "Paternity" proposal gives the head of the military-civil administration the right to decide on the interim until the end. increased not more than twice the official salary of members of the military and civilian administration has been counted. I think that, really, those people who work as clericals, lawyers, heads of department in inhuman conditions in the Donetsk and Luhansk region should get a little bit more wages because the heads of these military and civilian administrations are complaining that they simply, in fact, cannot find the personnel who have to take care of these military areas. We should start fighting for the hearts and minds of people, not just in the territories. And I want to add from myself. Now there's a deal for government positions. I demand on behalf of all the displaced people, on behalf of all the people of Donetsk and Lugansk, the creation of a separate Deputy Prime Minister with a function with the appropriate and with a team of people from the occupied area of Crimea and Donbas. In executive power, there must be a person responsible for the development of these territories in executive power. We have a lot of patriotically set-up deputies, but we have to have people in executive power who are finally going to deal with these issues, not go after this job. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the committee, the head or the committee members to comment. In fact, Self-Help and Parenthood have the same requirement: it is a statutory regulation of the time of the head of the military-civil administration in office. Does the committee see it as possible to support this amendment so that we can conduct it as a whole? Because this law requires immediate adoption, I stress once again, so that we can continue to operate military and civilian administrations so that we can preserve the vertical. That's why I'm asking someone from the committee. Vinnik, come out to the rostrum if you're authorized to speak from the committee and say so. If we can make this amendment, formulate it, if we can't, we'll start voting without it. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, so be it! Okay. There's a position from the committee. Come on, Vinnik, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u32	I see everyone agrees. We need to clarify the mandate and question of the activities of the military and civilian administrations, the institution that we were forced to create in response to Russian aggression against our Ukrainian territory, and in relation to the liberation of the respective territories. At the same time, realizing that this is a complex issue, including in the budget relations, the committee does not deny that we today accept this bill as a basis, but with a shorter deadline for preparing for the second reading. Actually, it can be considered as a whole next week on Thursday. If there is no objection, let us take such a decision and vote and continue to work so as not to delay the process and to overwhelm an extremely important bill and respect the rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u33	So the colleagues, after a joint discussion, decided that the bill should now be voted on as a basis, then a reduced procedure for preparing for the second reading, so that we could make amendments next week that were proposed by both Self-Help and Parenthood and vote on it in general without delay. So the discussion is over, please come into the hall, take your jobs, get ready for the vote. Colleagues, we're going into the hall. It is indeed a regulation of certain provisions, but it is important and better to make it not by hearing, not by voice, but by professionally, qualitatively, by preparing and submitting with those amendments to the second reading. Are you guys ready? I would like to place a signal vote on the draft Act on the implementation of certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of military and civilian administrations on the ground. Signal vote. Support me. Vote, signal vote 3177-d. Please. [[10:41:42]] For 227 There are voices. So I'm putting it to a vote, and I'm stressing it as a basis. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of military and civilian administrations (number 3177-d) as a basis. Colleagues, on the basis of that, please vote. Please. [[10:42:23]] For 236 Decision taken. And, colleagues, I'm now asking the committee to consider the second reading on a simplified procedure. Colleagues, please support: consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. 3177-d, for a reduced procedure of consideration for second reading. [[10:42:51]] For 221 Let's do it again, colleagues. We didn't make it. There's a few votes missing. Once again, I'd like to rephrase the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. 3177-d, simplified procedure for second reading. Please. Preparing for a second read by a reduced procedure. [[10:43:26]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you. An important question. Colleagues, I need to consult with you. We have the following issues in our agenda: the changes to the Rules, the Constitution, are extremely important issues. And now there are consultations between factions and groups on these issues. Won't the room deny that I'll miss this chapter while the consultations are under way and move on to the next chapter of "Other Reading." No objections? Colleagues, there's an understanding, right? And we can go to the next chapter of our Second Reading chapter as long as political consultations continue. So, with your permission, I'm going to chapter "Other Reading" and draft Law 3084. This is a bill amending some laws of Ukraine to improve the system of government in the bookstore. This is a second reading, it does not need a special procedure, and I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Today we are looking at a series of very important laws for Ukrainian culture. It's going to be a motion picture support bill, and it's going to be a cultural value export regulation, and it's going to be a national heritage. The first is the law that we will adopt in the second reading on the management of the book industry. You know, there's a Ukrainian Book today that's being implemented by the State Committee on Television and Radio. And this is the only program left on this committee. We are proposing in this law from the following year, not this, to transfer this program to the Ukrainian Institute of Books, which is essentially a department of the Ministry of Culture. So the issue of the book is going to be taken care of by the Ministry of Culture. But it will not only be about the distribution of funds, as it is now, supporting Ukrainian translations abroad, supporting translations into Ukrainian, protecting the Ukrainian book market, supporting Ukrainian writers and international exhibitions -- all that the Ministry of Culture has to do is through the Institute of the Book, which is within the structure of the Ministry of Culture. There were quite a few people who were concerned that this law, for example, would apply to libraries. It's not about libraries. It's about publishing, it's about writers. At its meeting on 25 November, the Committee considered a bill adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading to amend certain laws on improving the public administration system in the book - publishing field. The purpose of this bill, as I said before, is to create the Ukrainian Book Institute, a state institution in the field of the Ministry of Culture, which will deal with issues of bookkeeping, distribution, promotion of the Ukrainian Book, will be in the sphere and will follow the example of Polish experience, where such an institution has been in operation since 2004. 71 amendments and proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies before the bill. 53 were counted, 18 were rejected. As a result of the Committee's consideration, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Law 3084 as drafted by the Committee in its second reading and in general, and to entrust the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, together with the Chief Legal Authority, to undertake its technical legal work and prepare for signature. I ask the MPs to support this bill and allow us to function in Ukraine an organ that will promote the book and in general increase the intellectual and cultural and educational level of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u35	Thank you. Please stay in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, a number of amendments have been made, we have to go through each of them. Please be prepared for work by the amendment authors. So 1-a, Dove. Don't insist. Two o'clock, come on. Don't insist. Four o'clock, come on. Don't insist. Five o'clock, come on. Don't insist. 6th, Dove. Don't insist. 8th, Lensky. Don't insist. Nine, come on. Don't insist. 10th, Dove. Don't insist. 11th, come on. Don't insist. 12th, Princess. Don't insist. 13th, Dove. Don't insist. 15th, Princess. Don't insist. 32nd, Tomenko. He insists. Please turn on Tomenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, a few general warnings. Well, the idea may take place, I think, even though many experts say the opposite. I would generally say that perhaps the strategy of humanitarian policy would have to be a serious subject of discussion, because we are in trouble, Mr. Mikolo, not only in the misunderstanding of the Derteradio. I don't fully understand what the Ministry of Information Policy is doing, other structures. So you would generally have to optimize these functions in order not to repeat them. But my amendment was about the following. If we give the Ministry of Culture and Minister such a tool is serious. It's a government body. So I don't think he should appoint a CEO, which should be the supervisory board, the authoritative people who are chosen by the appropriate procedure under this law. The minister only has to sign the contract, and the distinguished experts in this field have to choose the most worthy director of the Book Institute as the result of the competition. So I suggest you support my 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u37	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u38	In general, the MPs supported the idea that it was the statute that should define the position of the director as an internal document. But the committee decided that the regulation of the appointment and the release of the director would contribute to the absence of a corruption component in the appointment of the director, and the transparency of such a procedure. That is why this amendment was rejected. I'll remind you that the director is being appointed, and this is said, on competitive grounds, by the direct head of the ministry, but there is also a supervisory board that controls this body on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u39	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. You insist. Thus, the vote is voted on by the 32th National MP, Tomenko, who supports the amendment, please vote. Please. [[10:51:08]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 35th. You're better than Don't insist. 36th. Lechenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u40	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It's about how a competition commission is formed, which is actually formed to hold a competition for the appointment of a director of the Ukrainian Book Institute. In the original version of the bill, it was about what is being distributed, and 9 persons of the competition commission go to 3, 3, 3. Three from the executive director, three from the Supreme Council of Ukraine committee, from the committee, and three from the public organizations. Now they've left, now they've taken the Supreme Council and made six people from public organizations. And it would seem that this is a positive moment. But on the other hand, so vaguely prescribed in the bill are requirements for appropriate public organizations that I think we should leave here "from the Supreme Council", not "from the Committee", but "from the Supreme Council" to have three members of the commission. Because it's going to be an institution that's going to be managing the funds pretty substantial, and you can't completely lose parliamentary control of the money managers. What's more, unfortunately, we have experience in Ukraine when so-called social organizations are real.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u41	30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u42	Unfortunately, we have a lot of experience in Ukraine when there's a lot of so-called loud social organizations called "divines." Do you know why the sofas? Because all the members are on the same couch of this public organization. What this competitive commission is going to be filled in and which will then use the funds completely opaquely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u43	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u44	Thank you. Much of what Deputy Lehchenko says is certainly logical and reasonable. I would like to stress once again that the amendment proposes that the members of the competition commission, which is to hold a competition for directorship of the Institute of Books, include 9 persons: 3 from the Supreme Council, 3 from the Ministry of Culture and 3 from the public associations. But we have pointed out that the Constitution does not provide for the powers of the Supreme Council to appoint members of competitive commissions. Moreover, members of the committee have come to the conclusion that such an appointment procedure, I point out that the director, not the director, but only the members of the competition boards can delay the selection process. So we decided that the best option would be the composition of a competition commission of 9 people: 3 from ministries and 6 from public formations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u45	Thank you. Do they insist on voting? A vote is taken on amendment 36 of the People’s Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[10:54:02]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Then the amendments are taken into account, that's positive, that's the committee's fruitful work. 57th, come on. Don't insist. 58th, Dove. Don't insist. 61st, Over. Don't insist. 63rd, Shinkovich. Don't insist. 65th, Dove. Don't insist. Thus, we have concluded not a simple discussion of the bill. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, there's going to be a second reading vote. Please, colleagues, come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u46	Mr. Chairman, here is the 56th amendment, the author of the Pobel Amendment, is now asking for it to be removed. One second, I'm watching.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u47	I called it obvious. Give your word, Mrs. Irina? Are you going to talk? Talk to me. Over the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the 56th Amendment, which was quite resonant with regard to the conditions of financial security for the work of the director, substitutes, and staff of the Book Institute. This is my amendment, I must say that it was introduced into this bill on purpose in order for us, as members of the Supreme Council, to determine whether we are deciding on the terms and conditions for the directors of the budget institutions in Parliament, or are we doing this for all the employees of the budgetary institutions? I propose to delete this amendment and not include it in the body of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u50	The point is that there was one amendment with which the committee did not make a decision, and it was put into the hall. This amendment was about setting up fairly high salaries for the Institute of Books, such as the director of the Institute of 50 Minimum Wages. Of course, it was high, and I understand a colleague who wanted to draw the attention of MPs to the fact that we have a lot more respect for people in governance and law enforcement structures than we do for the future. This amendment has raised some objections in many people from clear questions, and the MP is taking them down, but I'm paying attention to this imbalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u51	Let us act wisely. Your committee didn't support this amendment, it didn't make a decision, and the author takes it down, so she doesn't need any special vote, we vote the law without this amendment. So, ready to vote as an MP, I see. Please take your jobs. I'm betting on a 3084 signal vote: a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws to improve the public administration system in the bookstore (second reading), a signal vote. Please vote, please identify yourself, a signal vote. [[10:57:27]] For 217 Colleagues, potential is, there is no discipline, there is potential. So if you'd like to take your seats, I'd like to prepare for the vote. And I no longer view it as a signal vote, but as a basic vote in favour of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on improving the system of government in the bookstore (number 3084) in the second reading and in general. Colleagues, we vote, please support. [[10:58:20]] For 232 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee for an important decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the law has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the schedule for today, I am putting to the vote for inclusion in the agenda and for decision-making. Attention, everyone, please remain in your seats, colleagues! – Draft Act amending Article 149 of the Supreme Council Rules (Registration No. 3812). For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Everyone, please take your seats. Please. Please, everyone, take your seats. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the matter of inclusion in the agenda and decision-making (3812). Please vote, please support, Your Honor. Vote. Vote! [[10:59:38]] For 255 The decision has been made. There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote on the summary procedure. Vote! [[11:00:01]] For 201 It's a decision, thank you. Please, the Ukrainian National MP, one of the authors of the Igor Alexiev bill. Sergei Alekseyev, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You will have before you a draft Law amending article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure, number 3812, which regulates procedural matters by amending part six and part eight of the article. According to article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, except for chapter I, “General principles”, chapter III, “Elections and referendums” and chapter XI, “Improving changes to the Constitution of Ukraine”, previously approved by a majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s constitutional composition, is considered acceptable if, at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no less than two thirds of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted for it. The Constitution of Ukraine does not determine that the final vote in favour of the bill is to take place exclusively in the next session of Parliament, which follows immediately the session, which took place prior to the approval of the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. A key aspect of this requirement is to ensure the stability of the basic law of the State by not voting for the previous approval and adoption of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine during a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have a procedure for Parliament's decision on a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine in subsequent successive sessions. In those cases, if Parliament has not considered such a bill and therefore has not made any decisions on the bill during the first, subsequent, successive session following the previous approval of the bill. The bill under consideration proposes to resolve the situation by establishing that such a bill is being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the next session. The proposed draft of the bill repeals the prohibition on the consideration by the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine of the adoption of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which, in accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, was previously approved by the Supreme Council of the previous convening, but was not voted on in favour of the adoption of such a law. But this was not supported by the profile committee, and the authors agree. That's why we're asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u54	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u55	Yeah. So we ask that we vote in favour of this bill in favour of the foundation and, in general, in the drafting of the committee that takes account of the committee's ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Paul Pinzenik, the first deputy head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u57	Honorary National Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules at its meeting on 27 January this year, had previously reviewed the draft Act amending article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Alexeiev, other National Deputies (registration 3812), the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 26 January 2016. The purpose of the bill is to improve the existing provisions of the Supreme Council Rules on procedural issues concerning amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. In order to achieve the stated goal, the bill proposes to amend parts three, six, and eight of article 149 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. The substance of the proposed changes was an opportunity for you to hear a report from the author of the bill. The Committee noted that the proposals for amendments to parts 6 and 8 of article 149 of the Ukrainian Rules were correct and appropriate because they regulated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the consideration and adoption of decisions on bills amending the Constitution of Ukraine for such reasons. First, the Decision of the Constitutional Court No. 17-RP of 2012 in the case concerning the credibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine states that the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine should be considered and resolved in two successive sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a consistent manner (this is article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine). The Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutional submission of 51 Ukrainian national deputies on the official interpretation of the provisions of part four of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine No. 7-RP since 2007 states that the legislative procedure ensures continuity and continuity in the passage of the bill through the normalized follow-up of subjects of the right to the legislative initiative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its Head, the President of Ukraine, which ends only after the publication and publication of the law. So it's logical to suggest that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u58	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u59	Therefore, it is logical to suggest that, if the bill has not been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the next one following the prior approval of the second session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may consider such a bill at its next session to conclude its consideration by acceptance or non-admission. Secondly, the current Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not contain provisions which would foresee consequences if the bill was not considered or accepted and therefore cannot be applied to the provisions of the first article 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the bill amending the Constitution, which was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and was not adopted, may be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than one year after the date of the decision on the bill. At the same time, while supporting the idea of amending part of article 49 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee considers it appropriate to introduce it in a new edition and suggests to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to delete paragraph two of the first bill, namely: in part three, after the words "the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine" the word "no" and the second sentence should be deleted. I'm stressing this, because I'm going to suggest that I support this as a basis and as a whole, that's exactly what I'm going to do. The committee reached a conclusion on the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law should be included in the agenda, as a result of a first reading review, to adopt it on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals to delete paragraph 2 of the first bill, which reads: in part three, after the words "the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine", the word "no" and the second sentence should be deleted. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u60	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please. Alexi Mushak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u61	Request to pass on the word to Mikola Tomenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u62	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I am terribly pleased that there are 11 national deputies in the Supreme Council who are against the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine as the Basic Law, which we should not only know, honor, but show an example of how to implement. This means that there are 11 people who believe that when they swear to the Constitution, it must be protected. That's good news. 250 people along with the Opposition Block, because he knows how to change the Constitution. In our time, Janukovich has changed the Constitution so much that through "Madan" and war we have exhumed it. My friends, I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure Act amends Chapter 13 of the Constitution, which can only be changed by the people in the country referendum. What are you doing? The law of general principles."the election and the referendum and chapter 13 were contemplated by the parents of the Ukrainian State in such a way that no party could ever, and no president without the people would change them, because they are eternal things. Both article 155 and article 156 for this and it is written that in order to adjust the procedure for changes to the Constitution, it is necessary to make the right changes to 226 and then bring it to a referendum and approve it by the people. Today, we play political games with one law. And if tomorrow, God forbid, they'll decide to play with other chapters. For example, chapter I, where it is written that Ukrainian is a national language, where it is written that Ukrainian is an independent sovereign state, where it is written that Ukrainian is a unitary state, then it is not necessary to change the Rules and refuse the referendum that determines the fate of the Ukrainian people? It is a disgrace that 255 people have abolished the Constitution of Ukraine and want to make changes to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u64	It's like they said something else. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich. Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u65	The Latin word "conservieren" is to be preserved. These are the rules that are now trying to change, keeping calm and stability in any population, state, institution, you can't change what you can't change. So the Self-Help faction urges Parliament to stop and preserve the Constitution, which is written by those who were romantic but were objective people who respected the law. That's why we're going to vote against it and ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u66	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am not now addressing fellow MPs who are voting for this disgraceful bill. I am now addressing the people of Ukraine, and I want to warn Ukrainian society. There is now an anti-constitutional coup in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. In 2010, Janukovic, contrary to the Constitution, through the Constitutional Court, annulled the Constitution. Now, it would seem that the democratic majority of the Ukrainian Parliament, along with the Moscow Thieves bloc, are going even worse than Janukovic. They want to repeal the Constitution by means of the Rules of Procedure Act. So the procedure for amending the Constitution is laid down in the Constitution itself. Who has the right to amend the Rules of Procedure Act to review changes to the Constitution? I'm talking to factions that call themselves democratic. What are you doing? You are actually canceling the Constitution today contrary to the Constitution itself, contrary to the will of the Ukrainian people. I want to remind you how once, in 2010, the Harkow Agreements were ratified here in Parliament. The disgraceful Harkow agreements that actually turned the Black Sea fleet into a Trojan horse. And then when we approached them, the then parliamentary majority, we convinced them not to do so, because that would end in a war for Crimea, we were unfortunately not heard. I'm talking to people who can't hear me today. Who says who's running, who's back? Now, that's the kind of law that decides the fate of the country. Do not commit a sin, do not turn into an unnatural one, do not rape the Constitution. Those who now vote in favour of this law, you rape the Ukrainian Constitution, you want to destroy our country for the sake of Putin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u68	Dear fellow national MPs, what I'm trying to say is that any rhetoric has to be objective. And the fact that today's initiative to change the Rules allows for an additional time of 5-6 months to be discussed, in no way does it matter to change the Constitution, the revolutions and everything else. And I think everyone understands that very clearly. So I think that our position is to continue the discussion on this issue, to identify further actions with regard to all the provisions of the Constitution on decentralization, without stopping or failing this process, is the responsible position of the Ukrainian politicians. So I sincerely urge everyone today to support this bill. No comparison, even with what was said from the perspective of Harkov and everything else, was pure, it was treason. And this is about the discussion. So, dear colleagues, I urge the entire room to vote in favour of this bill on the basis and in general, to allow us to move on, and that will be. Yes, in the committee. And that makes it possible for us to have further discussions. All others, I ask you to write down everything that has been said from the rostrum, including. And you will see that nothing like what has been said will come true. So the question of supply. Attention! Attention! On the basis and as a whole in the decision of the committee, in the decision of the committee. Please support this proposal and please vote on the basis and in general with the Committee's proposals. Thank you. Vote, Your Honor, please. Stop! It's in the committee's office. Committee editing, attention! In the committee's office, pay attention! In the first. "As a result of the first reading of the bill -- I will only read the substance -- in the first reading, to accept it as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals, namely, to delete paragraph 2 of the bill in part three after the words 'newly elected Supreme Council', the word 'no' should be deleted and the second sentence should be deleted where it is written, which is to exclude, i.e., without the 'new elected Council'. Dear colleagues, on the basis and in general, we are voting in the committee. Please support this bill. We're voting, and that's the right position. Vote. Please vote, on the basis and in general, please support. Vote, Your Honor. [[11:15:44]] For 229 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on, let's move on. By factions, look, please. "Peter Prashenko's Block" is 96, "The People's Front" is 55, "The Opposition Block is 33, "The Fatherland" is 10, "The Rebirth" is 17, "The Will of the People" is 11 and "The Non-Factional" is 7. You guys, you're not embarrassing anyone, because in fact, there's been a perfectly normal decision today. And this is talking from the rostrum about different things, that's one thing, you be, you definitely approach positions, definitely approach them. You ask that question on your own, on another question? Have a conscience. I emphasize that nothing but positive will happen in connection with the adoption of this law -- no questions. It's not a discussion at all, any further discussion of these laws, no disgrace to decentralization, no destruction, my friends. And I'm responsible, responsible. And now, honourable colleagues, for decision-making and orderly inclusion of the Law’s daily draft (registration number 3,700). Maybe he shouldn't have to make that law, either. Should I put it on? Is this not a coup? It's not a coup. I'm not you. I'm not lying to you. Honorary colleagues, draft Law (registration number 3700), draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies (for the exclusion of candidates for the Ukrainian People's Deputies from the electoral list in the multi-mandatory district). Attention, I know that there are also very different perceptions of this law. But there are, as if, proposals that have been made and can be approved, including the results of the first reading on the basis. There is an offer, colleagues, now to include it in the agenda for decision-making and to discuss the outcome of the discussion of decision-making. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Attention, colleagues, we have a vote. [[11:18:15]] For 184 Fellows, let's give it up! The factions. Okay, colleagues, we're gonna have another discussion on this, so we don't. Let's move on, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Please note the draft Law (registration number 3524) amending the Constitution of Ukraine (justice). A representative of the President, according to the procedure in Parliament, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, reports. Please, in 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! On 26 January 2016, the President of Ukraine introduced the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine (the case of justice) as an urgent matter for further consideration, replacing the former bill of the same name with registration number 3524. The drafting of the bill is due to the need to ensure that the political consensus can be reached in resolving the issue of the possibility of Parliament expressing mistrust to the Attorney-General as a result of his resignation. Thus, the amended draft regulation proposes that the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine include not only the granting of an appointment and discharge from office of the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, as provided for in the previous draft of the bill, but also a statement of mistrust to the Attorney-General, which results in his resignation. Thus, according to the bill's replacement, early discharge from the post of Attorney General will be carried out on the basis not only of the law, as provided for in the previous draft, but also of the Constitution. As for the rest of the bill, it should be noted that they have not changed and are responsible for ensuring the independence of the judiciary, depoliticizing it, raising the professional standards of the judiciary, improving the principles of the administration of justice, ensuring the institutional capacity of the prosecutor's office, the lawyer's office, the system of enforcement of decisions, and so on. Thus, the adoption of the bill will contribute to the implementation of full-scale judicial reform and the upgrading of the judiciary in accordance with social expectations and European standards to restore citizens' confidence in the judiciary, as well as to ensure the proper functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office and the system of enforcement of judicial decisions. In view of the above, I would like to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to include a bill by Ukraine amending the Constitution on justice (registration number 3524) not only in the order of the day-long third session of the Supreme Council, but also to refer it to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion on the conformity of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u70	Thank you. Please report to the committee head, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u71	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy and Justice at its meeting yesterday, January 27th, considered the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for justice) under registration number 3524, which was completed. And I set it up. To do the right things. In accordance with articles 93, 154 of the Constitution, the President exercised his right and submitted to Parliament a corresponding draft Law amending the Constitution. According to the relevant subject of the legislative initiative, the bill ensures the system, completeness, clarity, impartiality, and constitutional regulation of social relations. As you know, it's about the President's passing a revised bill, which is different from the one that was already being considered in the session room and sent to the Constitutional Court, only in part of one norm. The point is that the President is proposing that the right of parliament be restored to a position of mistrust of the Attorney General, which results in his resignation accordingly. With this in mind, the committee, after considering the bill, decided to recommend to Parliament the following: to include in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the eighth vocation of the question of the completed project. The bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for justice) as amended on 26 January 2016, submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter. In this regard, the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (the case of justice) as of November 25, 2015 was rejected. And the second. second paragraph. An amended bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (for justice) has been prepared to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a conclusion on compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. A corresponding bill is given to the national deputies in advance. Please support the proposed draft ruling, which the committee is proposing to Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u72	Thank you. Please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Please, five minutes to ask. Please, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u74	Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u75	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ruslan Petrovich, indeed, judicial reform is one of the key political issues that are on the agenda today. But I think it's about some imitation of judicial reform, not a full-scale change in the situation. Because with today's judiciary, I just don't believe that real reforms are possible, with that level of corruption and the level of mistrust that these people now have. This reform, it doesn't predict that we're going to have a full upgrade of the judiciary. Plus, it seems to me that the powers that are now in Parliament with regard to removing the inviolability of judges, if they are transferred to the so-called Supreme Council of Justice, will not contribute to, likewise, the effectiveness of combating abuses in the judicial system. Maybe we should take down all the judges' in touch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u77	Thank you for asking, Your Honor Andriy Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, I don't want to discuss the substance of this issue right now, it's your political position, you've expressed it, I respect it, but I would like to remind you again, we're now in the process of considering the inclusion in the agenda and sending it to the Constitutional Court to decide on the conformity of 157, 158 articles of the Constitution of this bill. And only after this bill gets a positive conclusion from the Constitutional Court can we start to consider it essentially and, including, to discuss the things that you have just highlighted. Now, as I am, according to the Constitution, we have no authority not to give the President the opportunity, using his constitutional right, to obtain the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. Because there is a discriminatory norm in the Constitution that says that MPs can draw such a conclusion by addressing the Constitutional Court, and the President as an independent subject does not have such a right and can only do so indirectly through Parliament. Therefore, it is our duty to send.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Ruslan, I have the only thing that, Vladimir Borisovich, I do not understand the procedure for amending the Constitution. We've got the President making changes to the Constitution, and the head of the parliamentary committee is answering the question. Is there not, on behalf of the President, an adequate person who knows the constitutional law and reads the text of the President's bills? Now to Ruslan Petrovich. Ruslan Petrovich, don't you think it's a good thing that the President has made concessions in part of the President's control of the Attorney-General, but this two-way transition period is staring into the eye where the President will have the right to reorganize himself, extermination of the courts, reassignment of the courts? And here I heard billionaire Soros, who said that maybe the President would be given extraordinary powers for two years, and he would make Ukraine happy. Do you think it takes two years to increase the President's authority?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u80	Here's the thing. The point is that the newly created body that is planned for these changes, the Higher Council of Justice, is essentially going to be a compilation of those bodies that are now in existence, based on the Higher Council of Justice first. But you know that a new composition of the High Council of Justice has recently been formed, which, according to the constitutional rules in force, has its constitutional mandate. And, again, according to these rules of the Constitution, this term cannot be interrupted. Therefore, we are obliged to allow them to complete their duties. This is exactly what this period will be, which we consider to be transitional, giving them certain powers, those that immediately after formation will have an expanded Supreme Council of Justice. Here they have a narrowed nature of this kind of authority. But now to duplicate and form two organs with the same powers, well, it's constitutionally going to be absolutely, well, an unacceptable thing that only creates chaos. That's not right for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u81	Please, last question, Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u82	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, you remember that perhaps when the Constitutional Commission was working on the draft constitutional changes in question, the Venice Commission warmly welcomed the fact that Parliament would finally get rid of the issue of mistrust to the Attorney General because it was not a European practice, it was not applied in any European country. Moreover, the standard given today in the Constitution is actually a dead norm. Actually, that's why I wanted to ask you if you have any information about what actually happened that we're voting on this bill right now. Whose initiative it was to give up ours. From the advice of our European colleagues and the advice of the Venice Commission, and in fact to regain the right to express mistrust and factual influence on the prosecution by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u83	Well, obviously this isn't the end of me. All I can do is use the official documents I've seen handed out by the committee. This is about the submission that came on behalf of the President. There, indeed, it's public information, it's on the site, you can look, it's written that this kind of decision was taken by the President after political consultations with the factions of Parliament. Obviously, faction leaders can explain more, including why these consultations were, who was the one who suggested that faction leaders remove this norm, and what, for example, was the basis for their position. As far as I'm concerned, there's actually a conflict here, because, frankly, I've been in the Venice Commission on several occasions myself, and that's the norm that's always been the "red thread" in the position of the Venice Commission on Ukraine. Well, over the last 10 years, that's exactly right. So I think we want to or we don't want to, we all have to keep in mind that we're going to have to go back to that standard. When that happens, I don't know. It seems to me that it's only a matter of time before the decision is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u84	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Please take your seats. Honorable colleagues, performances by factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please record. Please. Peter Dustenka's Block. Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to focus on this bill on a few things. The first thing is obvious. This right to the Constitution of Ukraine actually strengthens the power of the President and the influence of the President of Ukraine on the judicial branch of power. Second thing. Someone was talking about an anti-constitutional coup. I want to say that any parliamentary group, a separate MP or a deputy faction that will vote in favour of the bill 3524, will be a guide to an anti-constitutional coup. Why? Because these changes are very dangerous, really very dangerous things. First of all, the bill in "Transitional positions", namely, "Transitional positions", contains the devil, provides that the corresponding position of judge appointed for a term of five years or elected by a judge on an uninterrupted basis, is to be assessed in accordance with the law of Ukraine "On making changes to the Constitution" (as far as justice is concerned). This law, respected citizens, does not yet exist, and what standards will be established by valid authority is not yet known. But in any case, the entire judiciary will be undergoing a so-called illustrative filtration procedure for loyalty to the appropriate authority. Why? Because the result of such an assessment is that it is not up to the judge in charge of the position under the criteria: first, competence; second, professional ethics or virtue, who will decide what is professional ethics, what is a virtuous or not a virtuous judge. I want to say that the actual changes we're going to make are going to destroy the remains of an independent judiciary, in fact that's going to mean the destruction of a judicial branch of power, no democratic country can afford to falsify the entire judiciary, regardless of whether it's chosen to be re-elected, whether it's elected on an indefinite basis. They were chosen according to the rules of the Constitution, which was valid at the time of their election, whether on an indefinite basis or at the time of their appointment. I see these standards as a very serious threat, and we need to talk about the fact that these standards do not have the right to exist. The second rule is about the right of everyone to appeal to the Constitutional Court. I want to tell you that formal law tactics are being preserved. But when do we have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court? When all means are used, national remedies. So a law that is adopted by a valid authority that is obviously unconstitutional, it cannot be immediately challenged in the Constitutional Court, it will have to be challenged in all chains of judicial bodies: the first instance, the appeal institution, the higher specialized court.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u86	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u87	Oleg Laska, Radical Party. I want to explain once again to the citizens what has just happened in Parliament. 229 national deputies from the so-called Democratic Coalition, together 33 votes plus the Moscow Thieves bloc, voted in favour of amendments to the Rules Act, which effectively annulled the constitutional procedure for reviewing and amending the Constitution of Ukraine. This vote and these changes to the Rules actually allow us to consider the changes to the Constitution in a part of the special status for Donbas in the next session, which will begin in February and will end in September. It is thus possible for the authorities to continue to force them to seek the votes of the deputies, to force them 300 votes for their special status for Donbas. I warn Ukrainian society. In 2010, Janukovic in an unconstitutional way, through the selling judges of the Constitutional Court, who are still sitting and working for today's authority, had already changed the Constitution by a decision of the court, effectively repealing the Constitution. Today's so-called democratic majority, along with the disadvantages of the Yanukovitch gang, is taking an example and doing the same. They sent Janukovich away. Janukovic did this through the Constitutional Court, they actually cancel the Constitution with amendments to the Rules Act. I want the Ukrainian society to understand clearly that there has been an anti-constitutional rebellion in the Supreme Council, aimed at implementing Putin's plan to amend the Constitution and to grant special status to Donbas in the Ukrainian Constitution. And that's why these anti-constitutional changes were voted by a thief block that clearly executes all teams from Moscow, the FSB and the Kremlin. Every week, the leader of Boyko's thieving block goes to Moscow, and no one, no BSO, no Anti-Corruption Bureau, draws him to responsibility and doesn't put him in jail. I'm sorry that MPs who call themselves patriots who say that they are the European Democratic Coalition, in the same anti-constitutional way as Yanukovic, are raping the Constitution on Putin's accord, in order to actually federalize Ukraine. Now essentially the Law on Changes to the Constitution, about the judiciary that we are currently considering. This law does not solve the problem of justice; it preserves corruption; it preserves corruption; it preserves abuse; it actually converts the judicial system into a manual regime for the administration of today's government. This system was governed by Janukovich, and now he wants to rule the present system of things. That's why we won't vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u88	I'll be back before. This is what you've just heard in the decentralization section, everything you've heard from the rostrum, write it down. And what was said is not going to happen. Just write to yourself that no word will ever be translated into life, not one. We're with you today. I'm stressing again. We have just stressed that the issue of debate and discussion will continue, and there is no way that this is about any status of Donbas. Read the Constitution. So I would very much like to be very tolerant, to respect each other, and to call things my names. Thank you all for your tolerance. Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we today have the opportunity to start real changes in the judicial structure of the branch of power. No one here, and more to our electorate, is the secret that there is no just, fair, and objective, unbiased court in the country. This is evidenced by dozens of resonant and thousands of known court cases or corrupt decisions. We talk a lot about it, but unfortunately we didn't do much. Fortunately, this Parliament has been engaged in this problem since the first days of its election. There was a presidential attempt, there was an attempt by colleagues of Self-Help, and nevertheless, the level of resistance to corruption and impunity in the courts turned out to be more than we could have imagined. We need to change not just the law, but the Constitution, we need to go through that program on Palm that we all talked about in Maidan, clean up the courts from non-professionals and corrupts, leave honest judges there, and get new legal literate and morally responsible people. This change to the Constitution gives us this opportunity. Moreover, there is also a plan to adopt between the first and the second reading of changes to the Constitution a law that will clarify the criteria of attestation, and they have to enter completely clear, understandable things. For example, the cancellation of more than two cases by a higher authority shows whether it is professional, or corruption of the judge, the annulment of a decision by the European Court of Justice in human affairs and other matters should be automatic grounds for the release of judges, for the cleansing of the judicial system. Dear colleagues, we all know that the state begins with a square of justice. Today we need to create this area of justice with changes to the law that can clear up the area of injustice, injustice, lawlessness. I ask all MPs, regardless of their political beliefs, from party membership to support this bill. 'Cause there's one more thing I can say. Yes, there are some things that could be better written, that's true. But better yet, he's an enemy of the good. If we start writing new texts, the actual cleaning mechanisms can only be started in connection with the algorithm for adopting changes to the Constitution in the spring of the following year. I'm sure there's no patience in society to wait another year for the actual cleansing of the judicial system. If we now vote on this issue, if, at this session, the Constitutional Court returns the text to us, and we vote 226 votes, we will be able to start a real, practical one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u91	the introduction of a clean-up of the judicial system since September 1st. I'm sure it's the right decision for us to be proud of in the future. Everyone, please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u92	Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, today is a crucial day in our struggle against corrupt judges and the judicial branch of power. We must finally begin the process of clearing the judicial branch of power. The highest level of distrust in society is particularly in the judiciary. If we don't now. We will not vote in favour of sending this trial to the Constitutional Court and we will not start the trial, we will postpone the main struggle for a year, this is the fight for the cleansing of the judicial branch, the independent branch of power. And let's give ourselves an answer: can we implement reforms, can we clean up all structures from corrupters when judges make unjust decisions? So today we all have to start this process further if that's not the way it's supposed to be. That is why we believe that we need to adopt the amendments to the Constitution and adopt a new Law on the judiciary, which provides for a procedure for the cleansing of the courts, criteria for new courts, and fully update the judiciary's branch of power. I'm sure we'll find 9,000 new judges in Ukraine, patriots who will vote by conscience, by honor, by law. So let's support this bill today and finally start an effective cleansing of the judicial branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the record is complete. From factions and groups are still willing to speak? Okay, thanks. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the recording of the national MPs. Three performances of two minutes, please sign in. Please register and we will proceed to the vote in accordance with the procedure. Oh, thank you. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I would like to draw attention to the issues that concern me in the draft changes to the Constitution. Question one, 124 of the amendment: "The jurisdiction of the courts extends to any legal dispute." Let us ask ourselves: Janukovic's citizen is suing a district, an area where he claims that he is unlawfully depriving himself of his presidency, and thus the election of the new President of Ukraine. The court takes a decision because it says here that any legal dispute is the jurisdiction of the courts. Another problem. Can the Constitutional Court’s decision be challenged by this standard? In my opinion, yes. Therefore, I believe that this rule should be written in such a way that when the decision of the Supreme Council and, for example, the decision of the Constitutional Court cannot fall within the jurisdiction of other courts of Ukraine. Question two, article 131.1. She's turning the Constitutional Court into a quasi-appellate court. Why? By this norm, if any convicted person believes that he is condemned by law, which is unconstitutional, he has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. Imagine that someone was tried, he was punished, then the Constitutional Court decides that the law under which he is sentenced is not constitutional. What are the legal consequences of this decision? And the last warning that already applies to paragraph 151-2. This rule stipulates that the Constitutional Court’s decision is final and is not subject to a charge. Please tell me, the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which he annulled the 2004 Constitution, that such a decision should not be reconsidered? I understand that such an examination should be provided for by the Constitutional Court itself, but this should be enshrined in the text of the Constitution itself. I want someone to spread my anxiety about the standards I've mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u96	Please, People's Deputy Sphenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u97	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Our faction favours judicial reform. However, we have repeatedly stated that fundamental reforms, such as constitutional ones, should be conducted not only openly, with broad discussion, but also in clear compliance with the procedure. The whole of Europe and the world are watching us reform the courts and fight corruption, and judicial reform is once again in violation of the law, guided by the current political benefits. First, a revised version of the Constitution was introduced on 26 January. The rules do not define the procedure at all, such as “implementation of a finalized bill”. Drafting of the bill is carried out by withdrawing it until the session is included in the agenda and a new version is submitted, and in the event of changes to the Constitution it is possible to withdraw only until a decision is taken by the Constitutional Court. It is now a gross violation of the procedure to introduce a finalized version and relaunch all these stages of judicial reform. Just as a trailer: The Venice Commission supports the abolition of Parliament's right to untrust the Attorney-General, and the updated version of the amendments only suggests that this right be restored. Secondly, all the positive provisions of the draft on the prevention of the political process for the establishment of ships and the transfer of ships are offset by transitional provisions. If there is a reform, let us carry it out. Parliament does not elect judges, and the President does not form courts and transfer judges from one court to another is already the power of the Justice Council, and in no case is the President. This is the only way to reform rather than manage the judicial system manually for two years and to talk about progressive norms. Well, the main thing is that the evaluation, so-called illustration of judges, you 8,000 judges are going to evaluate by some incomprehensible term of "kindness," which is not clear who will determine. This is the gravest violation that the Venice Commission has ever spoken about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u98	Please, Victoria the Bird. Dear colleagues, please come to the hall, all members of the people, and let's finish the discussion. Please, let's all take our seats. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, today our international partners say that the priority for 2016 in Ukraine should be judicial reform. It is a judicial reform that can restore the trust of our citizens in the judiciary, restore trust in a way that every citizen can understand that it must be protected so that our foreign investors can invest here, so that their investments can be protected in the courts. You know that one of the most important acquisitions of the project is that the basis for the release of judges is precisely the failure of the judges to explain the source of the passage of property. This applies both to their own property and to the property that is written down by them in their relatives. This is true in many cases when yachts, property that have been corrupt in ways that have been made by judges for many years, just as these corrupt judges must be released once and for all and leave the judicial system. You know that today there is serious opposition from the same judges who don't want to go through the evaluation procedure and even make their opposition today in a way that suggests some changes to the clearance procedure, they don't want to pass the exams, they don't actually want to participate in the drafting of the trial file on each of them. So I very much hope that the procedure for the cleansing of the judiciary will begin, that you and I will be in control of this procedure. And when we look at the constitutional changes after our prior approval, we'll be able to work with you on a package of bills to make these constitutional changes, to discuss them in Parliament, so that we don't have the same situation as we did with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u100	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u101	to repeat the same situation as is repeated with decentralization, when the bill packages under the reform are being worked out, when, inter alia, there is a bill on prefects. Sadly, though, most national deputies do not even know about it. Because those MPs who are interested in joining this reform and taking part in making changes are working and making proposals to the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Welcome to the closing statement of the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Dear colleagues, we are taking our places to vote for responsible changes, for appropriate changes to the changes to the Constitution in part of justice. Please, we're taking our seats. Please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I would like to clarify the situation once again because a few speakers or I have been misunderstood, or they are still misleading the hall. It's about what we're proposing in the draft regulation, at the same time incorporating a new project into the agenda, worked out, considered to be a rebuttal, an old project that the President is rescinding accordingly. So at the same time, we make a decision about two bills, and we are cleaning up the situation, as it were, so that no one has any reason to believe that in any way we are in violation of the Rules. So let's support this draft decision, and that's just going to be a symbol that we want to follow a clear constitutional procedure so that we don't give any excuse to blame us in reverse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u104	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We can talk a lot about the fact that the judicial branch of power is corrupt and nothing changes. But the work that is on the Constitutional Commission, which has been made to the President and also have an approving decision by the Venice Commission, is definitely a positive step in the way of profound reform of the judicial branch of power and restoring confidence in it. Without this step, we will never overcome corruption or other negative things that occur in the judiciary. In the system of judicial authority. Therefore, I urge everyone today to vote for the inclusion in the agenda of this bill, to refer it to the Constitutional Court, and to continue the real reform of the judiciary. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please, we're taking our seats. Please, we're taking our seats. I submit a proposal, honourable colleagues, and put to the vote for adoption the entire draft Order (Registration No. 3524/P1) on the inclusion in the agenda of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call for a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for justice) and on its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Is everyone ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please take a responsible vote and ask everyone to pay attention. We're voting and I'm asking you to support this proposal. Please be supportive. Vote please, my friends. Vote, please. Please be supportive. [[11:57:39]] For the 220. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, pay attention! Attention, attention. Dear colleagues, the constitutional right of every national MP to vote, you don't have to talk about it. I'm underlining that. With my return and my decision taken, I am putting to the vote the proposal that I have put forward under the transcript for my return, please, before this ruling is considered. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely responsible question, and I would ask you to consider it. So I propose to go back to this issue and I ask you to support this proposal in order to support inclusion in the agenda and referral to the Constitutional Court. Do you understand? Please vote. Colleagues, attention, attention! Everyone has taken their seats, please. Dear colleagues, this is a very important question. Let us return to this decree and approve it as a whole. Vote? I'm willing to approve the ruling on the basis and in general return to the version of my proposal, which I've announced under the transcript according to the committee's decision. Vote, please support, colleagues. Attention, stop! Is everyone ready to vote? Please vote, please support the approval as a basis and in general the return order, colleagues, please. Stop, attention, attention! Ready? Vote, please support your colleagues. [[11:59:48]] For 224 Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again, attention, fellows of honor! Please, colleagues, take into account once again the position on the return to the vote for the draft decree that I have announced. Ready? Well, every Ukrainian national MP has a right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, colleagues. Let's go back. I'm asking everyone to support this project. I'll give you an offer. Ready? Please come back. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote for the return, colleagues. [[12:01:00]] For 232 We're back. And now, on the basis and as a whole, I ask you to vote. Vote please, my friends. Please be supportive. What are you talking about? It's absolutely normal. Please vote for the proposal as a whole. Vote! Please support everyone. Please be supportive. I'm asking you to support the committee. Yeah, yeah. Please be supportive. [[12:01:23]] For 231 231 is the same as the return. Thank you, Your Honor. The decision has been made. We're sending him to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and we're launching actual judicial reform. 111 – "Block of Petra Poshenko", 58 – "National Front", "Samo help" – 12, "Fathership" – 11, "Rebirth Party" – 3, "Will of the People" – 17, "non-factional" – 18. Thank you all. I'm calling a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask fellow MPs to come into the hall one by one and group, to prepare for fruitful, active work. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. The heads of the factions please invite the deputies into the hall. And I'm asking the deputies in the towers who can hear me to come into the hall to start our work. Dear colleagues, once again, I strongly recommend that you enter the hall and take up your jobs. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, Ukraine is calling. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, we are not yet enough to make decisions, please come to the hall. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs, get ready for work, get a vote. Dear colleagues, we take up jobs. We now have our first reading day by day, the first-reading block. The important questions that apply to cinematography. We need to consider them, have a fruitful, thorough discussion. And at the request of the chairman of the committee, I'm proposing 3081a. Oh, 3081, 3081-1 and 3081-d to look at the reduced procedure. If you are a member of a group in the process, vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Colleagues! Solovay! Coalition partners, I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. Fellow MPs, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. So I'm asking you to support the committee head's proposal to review the draft Act on State Support for Cinematography by means of a reduced procedure. Please support everyone. Please vote, please support. Short-term procedure, 3081. Colleagues, we vote! Well, hold on. [[12:51:06]] For-126 Not everyone felt the responsibility of the vote, but they reconsidered their position, and now we have to go to a successful vote. I'm asking for discipline, all right. Take up jobs so that we can start a discussion. Colleagues, please, we take up jobs, we prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please have a reduced procedure, 3081: the system of state support for cinematography. An extremely important bill. Please support, please vote, seventh vote, please vote. Please support 3081 for a reduced procedure, we vote. Seventh, vote. [[12:52:18]] For-151 Decision taken. Thank you. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to invite those MPs who are still discussing their voting for future bills to the hall, because the bill is really, really important and I will now explain why. We're talking about supporting the Ukrainian cinema for a long time. As you know, we forbade the show of Russian shows and Russian films, as well as the aggressor country films or those that glorify the organs of the aggressor country. Now our job is to support Ukrainian cinematographers, Ukrainian culture, to protect copyrights, to support all those who help us build a modern and new Ukrainian identity. There were two different bills. One was 3081 and the other was 3081-1. They were prepared by different groups of authors, and projects coincided in many ways, but they differed in some details. In order to eliminate the competition of these two laws, which undermine the primary objective of supporting artists and the film industry, it was decided to unite them into one project. And it was extremely successful and important, this project developed in conjunction with the film industry, the largest filmmakers, television channels, distributors, and international experts. This is a unique situation where the draft law was supported as the most famous Ukrainian directors who are independent of television, today they were watching the Supreme Council and asked to vote for it, it was supported by the largest television groups that are interested in having a draft law, it was supported by cinemas. The basic positions of the bill. The bill proposes the introduction of a special college body, the Council of State Support for Cinematography, which consists primarily of experts proposed by the film industry itself. The Board of State Support for Cinematography is actually involved in the development of cinematography in Ukraine. In particular, the Council is responsible for the distribution of funds allocated by the State to the development of cinematography and controls their spending, determines the direction of financial support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u107	I'm asking you to give the committee a chance to complete a very important bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u108	chooses films that receive funding from the country. All costs are allocated exclusively on competitive grounds and on the basis of public and transparent procedures. The bill proposes to strengthen the protection of intellectual property and cinematographic works, to set quotas for Ukrainian movies on television, to regulate the promotion of films, and so on. The project introduces a modern tax rebate system that exists in most of the world's developed economies and that is able to provide effective investment in the economy when Western companies, making films in Ukraine, primarily American and European companies, are able to offset part of taxes. This will develop in us both tourism, tourism, and the hotel sector, and the economy as a whole. Impressive figures: after the introduction of tax rebate in most European countries, or even in Georgia, which, when reforming its economy, introduced this rule. We suggest that this committee be accepted now only on the first reading. I realize that there are many comments to him in different ways, and the authors themselves have observations. So it will be very important for us to concentrate on the second reading and to be able to make all these comments. If we can accept this bill, we will take a truly revolutionary step: we will have a Ukrainian film. I see not many people in the hall. I'm asking you very much, those who can hear me, to go into the hall now and support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u109	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the eternal question is why we don't have a film in all our years of independence is not that we don't have the talent (to mention at least the latest success of the Miroslav Slybospitsky Tribe or Oleg Sanin's Guide) tape, but because we didn't have a comprehensive European approach at the level of government and parliament to make it appear. Today, we can take the first real step towards creating a Ukrainian film and involving the world film industry to work in Ukraine. A detailed study of the experience of foreign countries, including one of the world's largest consulting companies, Ernst&Young, has been commissioned by representatives of the film industry as the basis for the proposed bill. There'll be nothing else. The world is open, and movies will be made where better conditions, including financial conditions, are protected by copyright and adjacent rights, and there is no piracy. If we don't create better conditions than we do in neighbouring countries, such as Poland, Croatia or Hungary for filming, if we don't support the film of Ukrainian cinema, believe me, there will be no film. Yes, in Croatia, which is actively implementing the national film support programme, there have already been films of many shows, particularly the Game of Thrones. In Hungary, foreign film companies have made more than 250 million euros in production. In the Czech Republic, the amount of foreign investment is $160 million a year. American producers are filming in Europe because European countries are returning part of the costs that foreigners had in the filming process. That's what we're proposing in this law. Besides, the law. We suggest introducing the following mechanisms in Ukraine: direct state support, successfully tested in other countries; the return of some of the qualified costs of producing films that have passed a cultural test; the development of a film and distribution network, which in turn will allow commercial films to be exported to a non-beating level. Also, the fight against piracy, including on the Internet. In Ukraine, pirate films are ten times the size of movies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u111	Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u112	10 times the size of the movie theaters, and then piracy causes significant economic damage. By law, we want to create an effective system of state protectionism in the field of cinematography, which will increase the amount of films produced in Ukraine, increase the portion of Ukrainian. Films in cash registers in Ukraine from today's disgraceful 2.5 to 25 percent, the development of modern infrastructure for the production and involvement of foreign content manufacturers, which we estimate are almost 2.5 billion dollars in the next five years. Increasing tax revenue, of course, comes into the budget, as well as positioning Ukraine in the world as a modern civilized country and a popular tourist destination. Honestly, colleagues, it's really a very principled vote, because there's no deputy who doesn't say that he can't watch the power of a Russian movie in Ukraine. I am grateful to the co-authors of the draft of our law, the Greenwich, the Chervakovi, Semerak, the Overlord, Abdullin, because it is he who has laid the foundation for the committee that we ask you to vote for that is 3081d. Let's take the first real step towards meeting Ukrainian cinema. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u113	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u114	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Information and Communications reviewed the draft bill at its meeting. By fully supporting the need for such a bill to support Ukrainian cinematography, we would like to point out that the rule on telecommunications in this bill is contrary to all EU standards. Thus, it is not possible to rely on providers of information transmitted to the information service provider to rely on providers of media services in the information society to monitor or store information, as well as to search for facts or circumstances that point to the illegal activity of others, that is contrary to European standards. We offered to make these changes along with the drafters, but these changes were not made. 40 pages of changes required under this bill, 4 other laws on telecommunications, the Tax Code, etc. That's why I'm talking to everyone. To complete this bill, because a huge field of telecommunications, a vast field of telecommunications can just lie down and raid, and those searches that are now, that's an inconvenience. That's why I'm stressing again. By fully supporting this bill, I ask the authors to work on it, to work on it. And I'm speaking to my colleague, Mr. Mikola Knieżicky, we agreed on this. It's one, two days to work it out. But make it work. Because, as we see now, IR addresses are looking in women's purses, in women's toilets, the servers are taking out. This is because these standards do not meet any legislation. So I'm asking you very much to send him to the committee for the first time in a reduced procedure, two, three days before.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u115	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u116	I thank all the authors who have drafted this bill to get a very good bill for the state in full support of cinema. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u117	Thank you. Then I'll let the committee's head finish, and now I ask my fellow MPs to sign up: two for, two against. Please. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Borislav Rosenblatt, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Chervakovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, this law is very important, and the branch is really begging us to approve it. But the position of our faction is as follows. Article 13 of this law contains the norm for the creation of this law by the Ukrainian Institute of Cinematography. It's going to be a government institution through which all the government money will actually go, and the head of which will be sitting on the financial flows. In our view, the creation of such an institution contains certain corrupt risks. This also contradicts 116 articles of the Constitution and the Law on State Organs. the central authorities of the state, which foresees that the formation of state institutions is the prerogative of Kabminu. So I ask you to remove the 13th article of this law from the body of the law, and our faction is ready to vote in favour of this law. I don't think it's possible to put the future of the whole sector in line with the lobbying demands of the individual authors of this law who want to put on the financial flows of certain people. Thanks for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u120	Thank you. Kirichenko Alexei Mikolaiovich, Radical Party Dear colleagues, you just have to take the microphone and announce: please pass on the word like that. Okay? Let's move on. Halasjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, surely we must support the Ukrainian cinematographer. But we insist that when we consider this bill before the second reading, we need to increase the role of using Ukrainian and make the requirements much more stringent. At the same time, I would like to stress that Parliament has registered a package of bills for the Humanitarian Development Fund. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, I have repeatedly referred to the Conciliation Council, these are Bills 3597 and 3598, which are essentially broader, more systematic and will allow for the organization of support not only for cinematography but generally for culture, art, education, science, sports, health care, and including for the preservation of funding for oncological children, which is foreseen at the expense of the state lottery. And because of this Humanitarian Development Fund, it provides for a completely transparent selection on the design principles of competing projects in these areas, it provides a completely transparent mode of use and reporting for each bracelet that will come into this fund as part of the excise tax on tobacco products and as part of the excise on alcoholic products, and from the introduction of a full state monopoly on lottery activity, which is also proposed by the Radical Party faction. So we're proposing and supporting this bill, but we're going to work on it for the second reading. And it is also urgent to put into Parliament a social development fund that will allow the country to have a real investment mechanism in the development of human capital and social stability as it works, including in Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Alexander Opanasenko of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u123	I beg you to give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u124	Please, Jegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u125	I have a request to my fellow Members of Parliament, as the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Committee. Yesterday we discussed this law on the committee and decided that we should discuss it more with the authors of the law, with the supporters and with the opponents of its approval, because maybe there are really corrupt risks. Please give more time to discuss and study this bill, and then make decisions in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u126	Thank you. Natalia Royal, Opposition Block from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u127	Respectable colleagues must be supported by a Ukrainian cinematographer. And to do that, you have to stop making a nonstop movie online called the Supreme Council, a horror movie because when you're taking a budget here, when the Constitution is being broken, when you're depriving yourself of a decent pension for pensioners, veterans, orphans, people with disabilities, of course, the cinematographer is standing first today. But I would like us to make changes to the budget today and to deal with the social guarantees that our people need very much. And I also want to ask the Minister of Culture, to stop having a circus because when you're looking at the New Year's Eve in full earnest about how to ban the Ironies of Destiny, or to ban everyone's adventure, or to ban the Caucasus Prison, it's the movies that we grew up on, and where our children grow up. And in order to create a Ukrainian cinematographer today, it does not mean that all the good things that were created by us must be destroyed. You create something, show an example, show people how to enjoy watching this movie, and then, of course, try to reason on what to cancel. And you set up a permanent show of inadequacy, and then people look not only at you, but also at all of us as completely inadequate. Therefore, the Opposition Unit insists that we first consider budget changes, that we index pensions and salaries, that we give people their social security back to resolve today the issue of support for small, medium-sized businesses and our industry. The Ukrainian cinematographer was not only supported by statements in Parliament, but also by his civil position. And they stopped making inadequate decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u128	Irina Heratschenko, turn on the microphone, one minute. And then the final word is head of the committee and vice-premier.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Thanks, it's just that we've got a little bit of a mix-up going on here. I want to say that there was a rule that, as if these bills were not in line with European standards. That's not true. I really want to encourage my colleagues not to blurt out or juggle European standards if there is no appropriate expertise. It's very strange when, in fact, we talk a lot in the audience today about the need to support Ukrainian cinema, but when it comes to practice, we're actually failing this important bill. We are obliged to support it, and the lack of support of this law will actually strengthen the market for pirates who launch movies without paying taxes. You can't just, you know, banning movies, we have to support Ukrainian movies. And there is no norm that does not meet European standards. But really, there is a decision of our faction that we need to remove the rule of institution. It's not our job to create institutions. The government will decide, the government will have the money, the government will decide. For the law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u130	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u131	Yes. We now encourage the session room to mobilize because we talk very often about the lack of support in the session room for the bill aimed at supporting the Ukrainian manufacturing sector. The bill is supported, as the committee head correctly pointed out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Ira, I have let you finish your offer at the end. The chairman of the committee is now. And all I have is a request to the head of the committee. Several factions expressed their position to reread. I want to make a point. Today is a good day for decision-making. We don't know how or when we'll be able to get back to this bill. And so maybe if the committee head formulates the right position that we can make between the first and second readings of these amendments, these warnings that are, to adjust, maybe today we could still vote in the first reading and start the process. That's why I'm asking the deputies to think about it, and the committee head to formulate the right position. Please, Santa's from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u133	Thank you. The first question is about creating a film institute. I want to remind you that film institutions exist in all European countries. So all we did was lay down a rule that in the future, not to have a Derteradio, but that the Cabinet of Ministers in the future would be able to create a film institute, as it is in Poland, Denmark, and in the Czech Republic. You don't want to, it's an unprincipled norm. I'm willing to remove it from this rostrum as one of the authors of the law, the committee will have nothing against it. Next. There are no European rules on copyright that violate something in this law. There is a fear of Ukrainian pirates and their efforts to continue in the face of European society, the United States, and those who defend copyright. Another thing is that there are imperfections in the part that are written in copyright. Indeed, a provider who just provides transportation for something should not be held accountable if someone runs a pirate video on this line. All these imperfections we, I promise you, will correct in the second reading. I very much ask you to support this law that will support the Ukrainian cinematographer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u134	Thank you. And I also give the floor to Vice-Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenkov for the final word. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u135	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! First of all, this law has been implemented for a number of months and with the participation of virtually everyone who is able to judge these subjects in a competent manner. You know, the government has given up the idea of a film collection, which we'll take very well for recommending in Poland. And by the way, he refused the request of film distributors, ITs and other film subjects. At the same time, we set up a working group, and together with everyone, I emphasize, all the TV sets and all the participants in the film process have worked out this bill, which has been repeatedly discussed in government and in the Ministry of Finance, even among other interested bodies. But we decided to invite his deputies to do what was done. You know, there have been several bills, this is the most optimal one, and this one is supported by the community. It's complicated, it's a readjustment, but it solves a few breakthroughs. First of all, it allows you to finance movies, or TV shows. Now we've removed the Russian content according to your legislative decision, the TV channels have started shooting TV shows themselves, but they also need additional support from the state, and we're going to offer them feedback criteria for the production of national films. This law allows for 50 percent of the TV series to be financed. That's the first one. Second, it allows foreign film investors to be involved, as well as domestic ones, through the mechanism for returning the qualified part of the expenses. This is an innovation, but it has been working in neighboring countries for a long time. Thirdly, it solves the problem of supporting a distribution network, i.e. film theaters, and this allows for the number of courses where a national film can be shown. Now these courses are small, and usually national movies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u136	30 seconds, finish, please. Please finish, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u137	He also foresees all the necessary transparent mechanisms. What you're saying about the film institute is you can easily delete it from this bill, it's not going to get hurt in general. Well, it also includes three other bills that deal with changes to the Budget, Tax and Customs Codes, which are largely agreed upon in the Ministry of Finance, and which create additional economic incentives for film production.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u138	30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u139	30 seconds to go. At the level of government, we do everything we can. The support for film production has increased by another 100 million in this year’s budget, now reaching 270 million. We've made a number of changes to government decisions, we've ensured the continuity of the film process, the continuity of funding, and also some changes to the support of national films, but without this law, the whole system as a system doesn't work. So I'm asking you to support it in the first reading, and then all the necessary changes in the second reading mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can talk a lot on the air about information war and the protection of Ukrainian information space, but without real steps in this direction, it will leave only slogans for the air and for its own political position. I want to emphasize once again that we have a first and second reading procedure so that these amendments, these warnings that we have, we can make between the first and the second readings. So I have an appeal to the deputies, first of all to enter the hall. Just got a whole group out of the People's Front. I'm asking you to join all the deputies in the hall, and there'll be a vote. And I ask the faction secretariat and the Supreme Council to report. As long as the MPs come in, I'll give Long one more minute. Dear colleagues, we have every chance to take an important step to support the Ukrainian cinema. The first reading is a good form for the drafting of the bill. So I ask all the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Until the MPs entered the hall, they weren't speaking, I didn't give the floor to the record, Olesia Long -- one minute and then Lucenko -- one minute and we're going to the vote. Please, Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u141	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, we absolutely support the authors of this bill. The committee head, one request, as well as those corrections, as well as the right comments, were made by our colleagues from other factions, one request: that we do not talk about this problem, that we now mobilize, voted in the first reading, and everyone who has made amendments today has not forgotten to come to the committee between the first and the second readings and actually make these amendments. Therefore, we invite all of us to unite. This is not a question that should divide into coalition or opposition and together support this important social bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u142	Thank you. Members, please come into the hall and take your seats. And Yuri Lucenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u143	Mr. Chairman, I can't understand why we're overstepping the law. We're in the morning 3081-1. That's exactly what the faction is going to vote for. We're kind of looking at "three d's" right now. I don't quite get it. But finally, I'm sounding the faction's position. We find it unacceptable to create a so - called Film Institute, against which much is being done. No, it's not. Therefore, we can vote, not after the general words of the reporter, but only with the exception of article 13, because it is impossible to correct in the second reading. But nevertheless, I ask the chairman to vote in the order of the day: "Tier 1", then "Tier D".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we are discussing all the bills. And in their speeches, MPs express their views on all of the bills that are listed here as alternatives. The chairman of the committee at the presentation announced that he was proposing to remove 13 items from the committee. Yuri Vitaliyovich, once again, I would like to point out that the committee head said he supported the deletion position of 13 points. We will vote in the order that is in the Rules. And I'd like to ask the deputies to come into the hall. And even for a clearer explanation, either Condratiuk, or Princely, someone else. Condrat. Please, Olena, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Yuri! Dear colleagues, once again we emphasize that we, all the drafters of the bill that are being considered today (Mr. Lucenko, I am speaking for you), we, all the authors of these laws, stand for one single law, worked on the basis of our previous laws, which passed the committee, passed all the hearings, working groups and so on. Just now, the chairman of the committee said that we are ready to vote everyone in the first reading, except for paragraph 13, which speaks of the Film Institute. I'm asking everyone to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we can go to the vote. Hence, he once again reports to those who question us: We will turn. We're done here. Well, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u147	Our faction is also ready to vote on the condition that article 40 is excluded. And then it's redesigned.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u148	Please give me a minute of finality, Mikola Knieżicky and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u149	There are two things. First. Once again, in support of what Yuri Lucenko said, I want the transcript to show that it is proposed to vote that the author of the other bills, said Kondratuk, one of them is the co-author, the other one, they were alternatives, we're filming our bills, they're done with "d". Please vote for it, except for paragraph 13, which speaks of creating a film institute, as requested by the BPT faction. The other one. In principle, I ask you not to exclude the section on copyright and adjacent rights, because once again we will demonstrate to the world that we want to live in a pirate state. But we'll work it out on a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u150	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please come into the hall, and we'll start voting each of the bills. I would like to stress that the committee's proposal is to take the 3081-d base. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, just as the head of the Peter Prashenko faction demanded that all the bills be put in place. The Rules provide for this. So I'm going to put all the bills in place, and I'm going to stress that the committee supports 3081st. He'll stand third. And I'm going to put it in the sequence that they came in. So we're going to start voting. I'm voting on the draft Act on State support for cinematography. He's not supported by the committee. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 3081. Please vote. [[13:23:58]] For-54 The decision is not made. I now put to the vote the draft Act on the System of State Support for Cinematography (3081-1), which is not supported by the Committee. Who supports 3081, please vote. [[13:24:28]] For-94 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, now I'm putting to a vote a bill of the Act on State Support for Cinematography (3081-d), which brought together all the drafters of the bill around which the committee came together, and from which, under the stenogram, the Prince's voiced the deletion of 13 points. So this proposal I'm putting to the signal vote as a basis. 3081-d on a base, please support, please vote, a signal vote. Please vote. We'll support the cinematographer. [[13:25:17]] For 222 They voted responsibly, and there are voices. Please take your seats, take your seats. Comrade Knyazevich, take up jobs. This is an important decision, it unlocks the process, by the way, thanks to those deputies who have supported and changed their position. Please prepare for the vote. Colleague, there's no discussion. Please support me, colleagues, first reading. I'll bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u151	Let's base it, colleagues, pay attention. All right, let's put it to a vote. That's the basis, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we have a process of discussion. There was not a single person who did not share in the discussion. We now have a bill that has common agreement on the first reading. So I'm going to rephrase the wording that the committee head announced. 3081-d with a proposal from the committee head Mikola Knieżicki to remove 13 parts from the bill in the first reading. I ask your support, and I ask you to vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? We vote on the basis of 3081d, as amended by the Princely Draft Act on State Support for Cinematography. Please vote, please support. Based on the base. Vote, fellows! Colleagues, please vote! Please vote. Support me. A common compromise position. [[13:27:26]] For 234 Decision taken. Congratulations to both our committee and the drafters. Hello, Vice Prime Minister. This is an important decisive step in supporting Ukrainian cinema, in support of Ukrainian information space. Congratulations, fellow MPs! Decision taken. Two factions called for a break, but they replaced the break with a three - minute speech. Dear colleagues, I ask you to remain seated, we still have important bills. A calendar plan. A calendar plan. Now, at the request of two factions under the Rules, the word is given. Who will perform? Easy. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u153	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Today, January 28, 2016, will enter the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism as a black day. Today, the parliamentary majority, consisting of the Peter Poshenko Block, the People's Front, the Fatherland and the Thieves Block, together with two oligarchic groups, voted in favour of amendments to the Rules Act, which actually changed the procedure for reviewing changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitution itself provides for a procedure to be changed. No law, neither the Rules Act nor any other law, can change the Constitution. Changes to the Constitution are made either by the Ukrainian people or by the Ukrainian Parliament. What happened today was for one purpose: to allow opportunities to continue instead of burying changes to the Constitution on special status for Donbas so that they could be considered further in the next session. This is a shameful anti-Ukrainian action that seeks to extend to the Constitution a special status for Donbas, the federalization of Ukraine and, as a result, its destruction. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. Look at everyone who voted and how they voted. I warn the Ukrainian society, even though the Head of the Supreme Council is constantly commenting on us, and he claims that everything will be fine, I warn the Ukrainian society about the extremely negative consequences that today's vote will have. Today, the parliamentary majority has actually discovered Pandora's Box, when the Constitution can be amended by changes to the law. I've already said it and said it again: I didn't even do it Janukovich. What happened today is actually the second "January 16" when the Yanukovich gang's hands voted on dictatorial laws. Today's majority, which calls itself democratic, European, along with the disadvantages of the Yanukovitch gang, are making changes to the Constitution, which allow the Putin plan to be implemented after the destruction of Ukraine through its federalization, through the granting of special status to Donbas. The Ukrainian Parliament, voting for such changes, voting in this way, changing the Constitution in an anticonstitutional way, spits at the memory of those people who gave their lives for us to be a European, democratic, civilized country. I'm sorry for you, colleagues, that you don't see your nose any further, what crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u154	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u155	It's symbolic. Let me finish? It is symbolic that this shameful vote took place one day with the ruling of the European Court of Justice, which lifted the sanctions of Yanukovic, Azarov and Clovis, Arbusov and all others.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u156	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats. There is such a situation that only time can put everything in place. As the person who voted in favour of this decision in a legitimate way, I want to say personally that there are no catastrophic consequences for our state here, we have continued our time to discuss the Constitution. I want to confirm once again that no words, no words, for those who have read the Constitution, are there any special status of Donbas in the changes to the Constitution, no words about the special status of Donbas. Moreover, there is no legal way to introduce it on the basis of the changes to the Constitution that exist. I'm definitely against any federalization, autonomy or any other separate thing that divides Ukraine, and this is my life position principle. And I urge everyone to engage in constructive interaction, to reread every point of change in the Constitution, everyone, to have a discussion at every point, to involve international experts, if necessary, we have wonderful professionals in Ukraine, and to take them all down. What's the problem? The problem is, I was talking to this guy yesterday, and I'm saying, you know there's no Donbas special status there. He says I understand. I say there's no word, it's not even written, and he says I know. I say, and it's not possible to do that because of the changes to the Constitution. I know. I'm saying what to do with it if you just keep the label on and on and on and on. He says it doesn't matter what it says, it's important how they treat it. Unfortunately, too much is being treated, on the one hand, as it is not written in the amendments to the Constitution. We have time to reconsider and make a responsible decision. And I'd appreciate it if we didn't stand up, and I don't want to stand up to anyone, and I'd like to prove it one more time. If that gives us that opportunity, I'd be very happy to think that millions of Ukrainians would be happy to have additional authority over places: both district performances, and district performances, and the widespread local self-government, and finance, and financial guarantees. So let's not put the glue on each other, I'm asking you very much. Because that would be unobjective. Colleagues, 3711, calendar plan. The draft Decision on the calendar plan for this session is to be approved today. In principle, we worked as closely as possible on the committee, held consultations with all the factions. Therefore, please consider this provision now under reduced procedure and invite Paul Pizenick to report it. Okay? Please, Paul Pinzenik, to be exact, 3711 under reduced procedure. A decree on the calendar plan. Please support everyone, this is about our work. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support everyone. This is the calendar of the session. Short-term procedure for considering it, because. [[13:35:28]] For 203 Thank you. Please, Paul Pinzenik. Please, Paul Vasilovich. Colleagues, please come into the hall and we will now vote on the calendar of our work for the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u157	Honorary colleagues, national deputies, are invited to your consideration by the draft Decision on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council (registration 3711). The project is scheduled to begin the plenary sessions of the fourth session on February 2. During the fourth session, 12 weeks are allocated to plenary meetings; committees, commissions, factions – 8 weeks, electoral work – 5 weeks, questions – 12 hours. The session is scheduled to conclude on July 22, 2016. Next. The Committee at its meeting on January 27th reviewed the proposals made by the MPs and the Supreme Council's apparatus for the draft decision and proposes to anticipate a week from January 22 to 26th the work of the National Deputies, February 2016, the work of the National Deputies in committees, committees, factions instead of a week's work with the electorate. February 29th to March 4th is the work of MPs with voters instead of a week for plenary meetings. From March 28th to April 1st, the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. April 4-8 is committee work. From April 11 to 15, plenary meetings. And in addition, you are invited to consider and support the agreed proposal of MP factions, adopted today, January 28, during a meeting of the Supreme Council Head, where the week of July 11-15 is held plenary meetings; the week of July 18-22 is committee work, commission, factions, groups. Here we go. At the same time, we note that Parliament’s working arrangements are designed to take account of the workday schedule, weekends, and holidays in 2016. So we ask you to consider and support the draft decision, to vote for it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u158	Thank you, Pavel Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in favour of this draft decree as a basis and as a whole. Is there no objection? Please vote and support the draft Decree (registration number 3711), this is the draft Resolution on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Ready? Please support a total of 3711 colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:38:17]] For 248 The decree was passed, respected colleagues. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we still have a second-reading bill coming in, this is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the introduction of a contractual form of cultural work and a competitive procedure for the appointment of Heads of State or Municipal Cultural Institution. An important bill, there are voices in the hall. And let us take a responsible approach to his discussion and consideration. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality by passing Irina Igorovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u160	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your second reading of Bill 2669-d: the introduction of a contractual form of cultural work and a competitive procedure for the appointment of Heads of State or Municipal Cultural Institution. This bill in Parliament and in the Committees of the Supreme Council has long been considered, very carefully and very deeply. The second reading was amended by our fellow MPs from the Peter Prashenko bloc, other factions of Parliament. Partly they were accounted for, some were accounted for entirely. And in preparing for the second reading of this bill, we found some technical and editorial disagreements between the articles. These disagreements do not have a definite impact on the substance of the bill or change its philosophy and concepts and were agreed with the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture. Yesterday, at our committee meeting, we voted and unanimously supported all the inaccuracies and inconsistencies. So I'm going to ask you to read these articles out of the voice right now so that they can be taken into account by the transcript, and so that we can vote on this bill, long-awaited, truly, by society. So put in part 12 of article 21.5 of the proposed edition of the Ukrainian Culture Act as follows: "12. The decision of the competition commission is considered to be accepted if it was voted on by most of the approved composition of the competition commission." Part five of article 19 of the proposed Ukrainian Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs reads: "5. The director-in-chief, the director-general, the artistic director of the theatre with whom the founder made a contract within the limits of the mandate given to him." Article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs reads: "Professional creative workers of the theatre include artistic and artistic staff of the theatre, working relations with professional, creative, artistic and artistic staff of state and municipal theatres, and are formed by contract making. The Head of State or Municipal Theatre may include artistic and artistic personnel above the established number on the basis of a civil law contract in accordance with the established law. The composition of the staff of the artistic and artistic staff of the public and municipal theatres is conducted on a competitive basis in a manner determined by the central executive authorities, which ensures the formation of public policy in the fields of culture and art. The list of professional, creative theatre workers and the list of positions of specialities of other specific theatre professions is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of proposals from the central executive body, which ensures the formation of state policy in the fields of culture and art." Paragraph 3 of the Transitional Regulations should read as follows: "3. With artistic and artistic staff who are in labour relations with state and municipal cultural institutions."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u161	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u162	Once again: "3. With artists. Item 3, Transitional Regulations. With artistic and artistic staff in employment relations with state and municipal cultural institutions, the law contracts between 1 and 3 years from the date of entry into force of the law without a competition. The authorities of state and municipal cultural institutions are obliged, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law, to terminate the temporary employment contracts with the heads of state and municipal cultural institutions and to conduct a competition to replace the posts of directors of such institutions in accordance with the rules laid down by this law. These are basically editorial changes discussed over and over again, so I ask you, dear colleagues, to support today's second reading of this bill, which is expected by the museum, the theatre, the library and all the society that works.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u163	Thank you. So Mrs. Irina gave the transcripts the amendments she was proposing to adopt the law. But according to the Rules, I have to go through all the amendments. I'll call the deputies. Please prepare for the work of the deputies. It'll be short, don't split, there'll be a vote now. 2 repairs, Fish. Don't insist. 3rd, Fishbuck. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Fish. Tomenko, turn on Tomenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to the committee and to the copyright group for the fact that, after my proposal, there is only two things that can be done after my proposal. Instead, I didn't fully understand, but three times when the author was talking about essentially editorial issues, I didn't understand the key. In fact, the Final Positions of this Act are directly in conflict with article 116 of the Rules, because the law is about Heads of State Cultural Institutions, and the Final Positions provide for the termination of labour agreements with all the artistic and artistic staff of the State Municipal Institutions and the adoption of them. So this is the illustration of all of our actors. We have the greatest enemies of the Ukrainian people -- actors, we need to expel them all, and then we need to re-accept them. So if we're writing about directors of institutions, then the law about directors, not about participants, about actors, and so on. I mean, I don't know what editorials we're going to be illustrating all of the actors in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u165	Please comment, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u166	Dear colleague Tomenko, the bill reads: "On the establishment of a contractual form of cultural work and a competitive procedure for the appointment of managers." As for art and art, I have to say that it didn't come out now and didn't come out of the voice. All the artists in the art warehouse -- we've been discussing with theatres for a long time, including the Ministry of Culture -- who has an untimely contract, it stops, and they are without a competitive basis, without a competitive procedure, they are made by the directors of the term contract. I mean, no illustration, no persecution here at all. Simply in preparation for the second reading, the paragraphs in the various articles were moved, and they are combined here. That's it. That's why all these standards were before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u167	So let's move on. Lensky. Don't insist. Knazevitch. He insists. Please, Knyazevitch, 5th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u168	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I've got the next thing. I'd like to put it simply. Just now, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko has said. During our first reading of this question, we made two amendments under the transcript that would take into account the committee with which we were willing to vote in the second reading. It's about cleaning up two lines, and it's been cleaned up, and we're also going to allow the heads of state and municipal cultural institutions to coordinate the positions of artistic director and director-general at the same time. Regrettably, it is proposed in the final edition of such an amendment only with regard to the theaters. The rest of the heads of state utilities don't have that kind of clearance. What's more, my 5th amendment is off-limits. So I'm going to suggest, if it's possible, give me a little bit more time, I'm going to read under the stenogram the text that we're proposing to support this law in general. I don't want the law to be passed because of that. Because the position of our faction is not supported if this amendment is not taken into account, the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u169	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u170	I can comment. Mr. Knazevitch, along with the entire body of this bill, which we are voting today, sounds everywhere, and here we have even corrected what I dictated under the transcript: the director (three) is the artistic leader. Or, when it comes to national institutions, the Director-General (tier) is an artistic director. In fact, the theater lobby has opposed such changes. We agreed because we must seek compromise. In all other institutions of culture. There are no art executives in libraries, there are no art managers in museums, there are only theaters, and it's saved. That is why your amendments have been taken into account editorially. That's the kind of position- and function-conclusion thing. So we took your wishes into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u171	I understand the conflict is not over. Yeah? Then we just won't have a chance to pass that law. Okay. Let's move on to the Rules. Yes, it's counted. 7th, Lensky. Don't insist. 11th, come on. Don't insist. 12th, Tomenko. He insists. Please. Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, once again, frankly, I would like to read it as in the final edition, because, well, I might have a low level of expertise, I didn't realize what would happen to the staff of drama theatres, operas and so on. You just know, we have a situation like this. These revolutions are made by good people, but most of the time the bad guys are coming. The same way in the theater, when the illustration of the actors begins, not those who were aspiring for the "Russian peace" will be expelled from the theaters, but those who have the Ukrainian position will always be expelled. So the law says, "Acquiring this law is the basis for ending the temporary employment contract with professional creative workers, artistic and artistic staff of state and municipal cultural institutions," that's tens of thousands of people you're throwing out right now, and you're taking a new one at the competition. I have a question: Why do this? We want to update the directors, refresh them, not banish all the workers and re-enter them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u173	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u174	I'd like to reread the third paragraph, which is what I'm proposing under the transcript from the voice, Mr. Mikolo. First of all, I'd like to ask you not to manipulate, because it's not about illustration, it's about updating the frame. And with the artistic and artistic staff who are in labour relations with state and municipal cultural institutions, a contract is entered into within one to three years from the date of entry into force of this law without a competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u175	Mr. Mikola, what's our offer? Vote your amendment? Mr. Mikola. Put it to a vote? No, yes. All right, let's move on. 15th, Knazevitch. Turn on the microphone, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u176	I just want to comment on what was said in my address, or I don't understand anything, or here we have a complete misunderstanding in the hall. Turns out we only have art executives in theaters. And in philharmonics, and in national groups, and in the rest? Where they are, they should be given the right. And if you don't know, well, I'm sorry. I'm just recommending this compromise so that this law is passed. If you don't think you can go to this compromise, well that's your right, and that's the way the law is going to go, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u177	Please comment, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u178	We do not object to such compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u179	So my colleagues, the chairman of the committee, said that he didn't object to this formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u180	They're where they are. in those institutions where he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u181	Mrs. Irina, we'll do it differently. Now, Mr. Ruslan, his next amendment is the 20th, and he's legally given the word, so let him make his proposal under the transcript, and we'll put this proposal to the vote under the stereogram. Turn on the Prince's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u182	Thank you. I propose that part of the second new edition of article 21 of the Ukrainian Cultural Act should be supplemented by a paragraph of this content: "The Head of the State or Municipal Cultural Institution may participate in the competition envisaged by this part, in the position of artistic director in the relevant institution. In the event that the head of the state or municipal cultural institution wins the competition for the position of artistic director, he can reconcile the positions (the profession) of the director of the relevant cultural institution and the artistic director. In that case, the contract is concluded for a term of five years." It's a norm that expands into several literally more institutions besides theaters, that's a right. And I think it's a fair compromise for us to adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u183	We heard your offer. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u184	I have no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u185	Supported. So we're going to vote with this amendment to Knyazevitch. Let's move on. 22nd, Princess. Don't insist. 23rd, Knazevitch. I think he's exhausted his offer. So we're done discussing this bill. We can put him to the vote. I'm asking colleagues of the National Deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. An important bill. Everyone, please come into the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report the vote. I now invite Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenka to speak and ask the deputies to come into the hall. Turn on the microphone. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear fellow national MPs! Government, the Ministry of Culture supports this bill. We passed a similar bill in May. In July he voted, then he did not get the required number of votes. Now the MPs have prepared their version, but together with the Ministry of Culture, it certainly deserves support. We've been doing all the appointments since May in the Ministry of Culture since the competition, all without exception. But when this is regulated by law, no one will ever be willing to review the practice that has already taken place. In addition, the amendments currently read from the rostrum clearly indicate that no mass layoffs of creative personnel will be made, virtually all will be transformed into working relationships, a mandatory contract will be made between 1 and 3 years old, a very important social factor. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u187	Please, Mikola Tomenko, one minute. And very briefly, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u188	If we're looking for compromises. Look, I worked in college, and in the Higher Education Act, they took the super-corruption rule when either the minister or the ministry appointed rectors from 1 to 5 or from 1 to 7 years. Now you've made some compromise not to expel these actors, because they're unrighteous people, but to take new ones. But now you automatically go from 1 to 3 years. I have a question: who will determine? There's the director, there's gonna be, because I love the director, I love the director for a year, I love the director for three. So it has to be one clear date and not manipulate these terms as well as the Rector's. You bet three years, and if there's a three-year conversion, I understand, even though we don't have strikes here, we have actors. We still had John Frank's playwrights or we didn't have enough strikes in the country. So if there's a clear standard for 3 years, I'm willing to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote of fellow members of the national MPs. This bill has been a difficult way of discussing it for a long time. Remember, at the beginning, there was a MP and a government, we put them together, we worked together between the first and the second readings. This is already a compromise reached on many levels, colleagues. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on Bill 2669-d, as amended, which was announced under the transcript of Irina, from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and which was sounded under the transcript by Ruslan Knazevitch, in the second reading, a signal vote. Please unite and support everyone. Colleagues, we vote, we vote, we vote, please. [[13:56:25]] For-188. Colleagues, is there still a need for a vote? We have a problem with discipline, because, I see, there is no political problem, all the factions vote, we have a faster problem of discipline. Let's re-vote, company. Let's mobilize, once again, the 2669-d vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. This is a vote, please. [[13:57:19]] For 210 We're on the verge of making a decision, we're just on the verge of making a decision, colleagues. If everyone else mobilizes and carries out their direct duties as MPs, we will be able to make a decision. Colleagues, please enter the Chamber of Deputies. Please invite a fellow MP into the hall. Colleagues, not political debates, just discipline. Both the chairman of the committee and the vice-premier are calling for a vote and support. Colleagues, we're not leaving the hall, we're going into the hall, we're not leaving the hall. Colleagues Ready to Vote? You're ready, aren't you? Please mobilize and once again put the 2669-d in the second reading, a signal vote. Please vote. [[13:59:01]] For 196 There are no votes, Mrs. Irina. No votes, but obviously. Come on, Princess, head of the committee, one minute. Guys, let's not break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Right now, I'm going to the Peter Dust Block. Colleagues, the committee and the reporter agreed that we're changing theatre teams to cultural institutions under the stenogram. So, as Deputy Knazevitch has asked, this applies to both philharmonics and everything else. This bill is the second time, we have not voted twice, we have made it complete. When we discussed it, all the art executives, theater directors, the public support it. We have theaters that can't do quality performances without this law, libraries can't work. Let's find a compromise and either now or when the chairman says, maybe after the break we'll support this bill. Please, we ask you very much from the entire committee of all the factions involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u191	Colleagues, we still have a chance to vote, please mobilize, colleagues. All the compromises that were proposed, accepted, and so did the three years that Michael Tomenko made. This was recorded under a transcript from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. Let's try again, colleagues, signal vote, 2669-d in second reading. Colleagues, we vote 2669-d, we vote. [[14:01:23]] For 193
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-28-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, there is an offer, physically there are no people in the hall. Let's start with this vote after 16 hours. We will support everything with amendments, and this decision will unite the hall. Do you have a deal? Thank you. We declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The evening session will take place at 4:00 p.m. Thank you.
