ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, are you ready to register? We'll wait 10 seconds. The MPs are coming in. Everybody's in position. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register, colleagues. [[10:03:57]] 334 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies. Paul Mikolaiovich Kishkar. Welcome to Paul’s birthday. [[Applause]] Yuri Petrovich Savichuk Welcome. [[Applause]] And our legendary colleague Refat Chubarov. Let's welcome Rephat. [[Applause]] Happy birthday, colleagues. And today our heroic athletes triumphantly returned home from the Paralympic Games of Rio de Janeiro. On a general recommendation, the Ukrainian Assembly has placed, as you know, 3 seats. Ukrainian paralympics won 117 medals: 41 gold, 37 silver, and 39 bronze medals. Under the flag of Ukraine, our athletes set 22 world records and 32 paralympic records. Let's welcome our heroes back to Ukraine and victory. Welcome to our colleagues. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the agenda. I want to remind you what we've identified on the Conciliation Council: today is the day of the fuel-energy complex. We have been presented by the Special Committee with a list of those bills that appear to be high priority for the committee, and among them are issues of great importance for systemic reform. It's also about the electricity market, it's about the National Commission that's doing state regulation in the field of energy and utilities. An important bill is essential for our cooperation with the EU, but most importantly, to reform our country and the fuel and energy complex. And that's why I'm asking everyone to be as focused as possible. We immediately move on to the issues of the day’s order. And the first thing we do in a day’s time is the draft Law on the Power Market (4493). And the first thing we're going to do is we're going to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take your seats, please. Can we vote? I am voting on the motion to review the short procedure for the draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine No. 4493. Please vote, please support, please vote. [[10:07:32]] For 122 My colleagues, I'll ask you again, I'll put it to the vote again. And if there are no votes, we'll follow the full procedure. I ask you to step into the hall again and take up jobs, and I'm going to put this proposal to the vote again. Fellows, I'm going to put it again now, and if there's no political will to shorten, we're going to start the whole process. So once again, I am voting on a motion for a brief procedure for the draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine (4493). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[10:08:55]] For 139 Irina Heratschenko didn't have a card. It's a provocation, a cyber provocation. Colleagues, well, I'll put it again, that'll do it. So, colleagues, once again, please concentrate, please take up jobs, we've been on the job too long. So, colleagues, many important issues, we need to go dynamically, and I'm once again proposing a simplified procedure for the draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine number 4493. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[10:10:45]] For-136 There is no political will for a reduced procedure. I'm not going to put the fifth time, the fourth time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u2	No, it's not. All of it. Colleagues, I'm not going to repeat from the rostrum five or seven times. And you walk around the hall and you don't know what I'm talking about. There's no decision in the hall. Let us now consider the full procedure. And I would like to invite you to the report of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Nasalik Igor Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Today I am presenting to you a bill on Ukraine's electricity market developed by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at its meeting on 20 April 2016 and addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 18 May 2016, reviewed it and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a first reading and on a basis. What the bill decides. And it's still fundamental to energy. The bill combines and solves the three most important tasks. First, it improves public policy in electricity. Second, it implements the requirements of the Third Energy Reform Package of the European Union and improves the structure and functioning of the market provided for in Act 663. With the adoption of this law decided for the first time, I would like to emphasise this, honourable national MPs, that the creation of an electricity market, all the advantages that consumers will first experience, where the consumer is not just a party that has no rights and just accepts the price of unquality services, but a major market entity that participates in it. The consumer has a choice. And that's the primary and requirement of this bill. There's a competitive electricity market, whose segments, and we're already dividing, are the market in bilateral contracts, the market in the period ahead and the intraday market, the balancing market, the ancillary services market and the retail market. Ensuring a fair price for electricity, and I want to point out that this is the law that makes it possible, in the medium term, to lower electricity prices. Electricity prices will only be affected by electricity producers, on the one hand, and electricity suppliers, on the other hand. Under this Law, there will be no administration, no administrative intervention. The third position I'd like to make today is to separate competitive activities from monopolies, which will facilitate market access and the emergence of new players, which will provide additional investment and development of competition. The adoption of the bill is the creation of an independent system operator and distribution system operators that will ensure non-discriminatory access to the transmission and distribution of electricity. What does this mean in its essence? This means that any business – small, medium, large – will easily get the necessary amount of electricity, and the new generation will easily enter the market and create competition. The introduction of this bill opens up new opportunities for renewable energy sources and makes it competitive in this market. However, I would like to point out that it was four months before the bill was drafted in this room today. It is considered appropriate to reinforce some of the provisions of the bill that will take place during the drafting of the bill for second reading. In particular, it is a balance between the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and the NCRECR, the reporting of the regulator on market management, the fragmented market and consumer rights, incentives and mechanisms for investment support, the prevention of conflict of interest during the personnel assignments of operators and market administration. I'll tell you more, this time we've been through, we've had a joint site at the Ministry of Energy, where all the market operators worked, our committee worked, the ministry worked, where the whole issue of Ukraine's energy market was examined in detail. In this form, in the Power Market Act, we get new opportunities and new rights to implement. Given the importance of the bill on the electricity market in Ukraine, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support and vote in the first reading of Bill 4493. I have to say that all the meetings that have already taken place with me as Minister of Energy, whether it was in the Visegrad quarter, or whether it was with the representatives of the European Union, the two basic laws that have asked me to install in the Ukrainian energy system, this is the Law on the Electricity Market, this is the Law on the Gas Market, which we have adopted, which now requires changes in the form of the Law on Change to the Gas Market and, of course, requires the Law on the Independent Regulator, the Law on the NCREKP. So, dear friends, please support this bill, which opens up new energy opportunities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u4	Thank you. Please, three minutes to question the answers. Please hold the recording. One, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u5	Mr. Secretary, it is definitely necessary to vote in favour of the legislative initiative in the first reading. I have a question: how does this law help ordinary citizens? Will they be able to choose an electricity provider, not just to depend on their district, let's say, monopolistic suppliers? And for business, how does that help? Will this contribute to the demonopolization of the market? Because now the business is paying for a month, two advances in advance, and this is a huge freeze on the cost of negotiable enterprises. So the demonopolization is going to be after the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u6	Of course, of course, I said that first thing I did. The first task of the Electricity Act is to extend consumer rights. And once again, I want to emphasize that the consumer is not a party that has no rights, it just accepts the price that it dictates, let's say it's not an electricity market yet. Because the electricity market, as such, is classic, we don't have it yet. And this law is the first step towards creating such a market. And it becomes -- it has rights in this market. And I would very much like, like in European countries, the consumer, when entering the computer system, to be at least at least 6-7 electricity suppliers, and he chose services, thereby creating competition in the electricity market. This bill offers such opportunities. But I want to tell everyone that the Electricity Act -- it gives a strategy, but there are a lot of basic laws that will directly polish the market, of course, they will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u7	Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u8	Minister, the Fatherland faction has always advocated transparent market relations. But it's not going to be a market, and you understand that when cheap hydropower, cheap nuclear power -- it's just going to be handed over to direct contracts, and it's going to be given to people. And it's going to be an even more energy increase, as always. So this is not resolved in the bill, so the price for the final consumer is going to be raised. We're in the market, but not at the expense of consumers, simple consumers, who are not protected from this market, how they were not protected from this gas market that we created. And there's no market, and the tariffs are very high.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u9	If we're talking about the gas market, we don't really have a gas market today, even though there's the Gas Market Act. I have to say this because the main problems have not been solved. NAK Naftogaz, as it was, remains a monopoly on this market. The issue of "Ukrattransgas" as an independent transporter has not been resolved, it is part of the structure of the NAC "Ukrainian Naftogazu" and is a monopoly on transport on central networks as well as on a number of networks. And the fact that the government has decided that this distribution of NAC to Naftogazu Ukraine is being carried out, but it's taking a long process and it's connected to Stockholm. And today, in answer to your question, I want to say that the gas market is today. There's no classical form. That's why I'm honest and honest with you. I'm honest and honest with you. As for the electricity market, but. If you can give me 40 seconds. So we've prepared a series of changes to the Gas Market Act now, and you've looked at them in the committee, and change to the law, they're going to give a completely different opportunity to implement the gas market.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u10	Please. Dates, right? Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u11	As far as the Power Market Act is concerned, we are now giving philosophy. But a number of technical decisions will be taken once the law is passed that allow for full competition. I know that the most expensive electricity we have is hydro, nuclear electricity, by the way, which has grown from 40 to 62 copies in the last year, but this law is exactly what makes it possible to compete, only in competition is there to change. If you count, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u12	30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u13	30 seconds. I said that the adoption of this law in the short term raises the question of lowering electricity prices. And I want to confirm today because there were some questions, the Ministry of Energy and Coal completed the balance sheet for 2017. And creating this balance might give us a reason to lower electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Igor Stepanovich. Question time's up. The co-report now invites the head of the Committee's Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Please Lev Theofilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u15	Honorable national MPs, honourable voters and the entire Ukrainian people, because it is each of us who consumes electricity and this law applies to everyone. The Supreme Council Committee on Fuel and Energy has considered this bill in May, it was passed on to a new composition of the government, as after the resignation of the Yatsenuk government, it was recalled, the previous version. The committee offered to adopt the bill as a basis and to work on the second reading. This bill changes the whole power market system completely. We now have a non-competitive market, a market that is fully regulated in the manual of the National Commission of the Electricity and Utilities Market, a market where we cannot clearly understand how tariffs are set, why they are so set and whether they are justified. Only through the introduction of competitive conditions can we claim objective tariffs that will be placed on the market. Today we have a number of manufacturers, namely: atomic generation, heat generation, TEC and renewable energy. The only buyer in all vendors is Energy Company, the Energy Company, which buys at regulated prices and then also sells at regulated prices to the skyscrapers. And now Olanergo sells for the final consumer again at regulated prices. The concept proposed by the bill completely changes the approach. When they have competition as a generation market, i.e. there is competition between manufacturers, where every manufacturer tries to be the most efficient and as low as possible of its costs and cost, not how today, where every manufacturer tries to come and prove to the regulator that its cost is something like that, and he needs to add more prices. And actually in today's market model, we know about all the Rotterdam Plus scandals, we know about all the scandals that transform into billions of dollars. We know about the scandals where new and new allowances are added under the influence of one or the other arguments. And it pours out tens and even hundreds of billions of dollars. Only by introducing market conditions on the generation market and on the sales market can we avoid this and move on to competition. There were questions about what this would give to consumers. First of all, for consumers, this will actually enable them to choose their suppliers. This seems to be unrealistic. Of course, no one will draw a few leads to each consumer, to each house. But we need to ensure that every consumer, citizen, and host can choose a service provider, an electricity seller. And already the electricity vendor is going to negotiate and make a deal with the transport company, with the distribution company to deliver electricity as a product to the final consumer. It's the competition between sellers that makes it possible to expect a lower price, because you know, for example, how the competition between mobile operators happens. We also didn't think that the phone could be in a competitive market, and now we can choose different operators, and prices keep falling. I hope so. If you analyze what's going on in Europe, and there's the Third Energy Package principles that are actually set up here, they've been working for a long time. And for today's electricity prices, the wholesale electricity price in Europe is already lower than in Ukraine. And this is the answer to the question, should we adopt this law? Of course you do. Only competition can lead us to market prices, to objective prices, and to prices that we can be sure of. This is the first step. The next step is to connect and connect with European networks so that we can have real competition, when we can buy not only in the Ukrainian electricity market, but also in the external market, and when Ukrainian producers can also trade in European markets. So I ask everyone to take the basis of this bill and I urge everyone to join the discussion on second reading, and as soon as possible we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u16	Thank you. So, colleagues, three minutes on the interview. Please record the question. Please. Salovi Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u17	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear report, the draft bill proposes to amend a number of amendments, including the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, which excludes electricity services from the housing and utilities list. How do you comment on this initiative of the bill? And don't you think it's premature today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u18	You know, as far as I know, the Housing Services Committee is currently working on. on the preparation of a new Housing Services Act. I think it's absolutely no problem if we work together with the committee on both their bill and we look at the basis of the bill and find the best solution. Why it can be excluded, since when competition occurs in the electricity market, then, in fact, it is not exclusively utility, which is a service that is provided and purchased on competitive grounds. If the MPs think it should be regulated by the law and considered a utility, we can consider it and work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u19	Thank you. The sound of Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u21	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, reporter! Thank you for your presentation. I have a question for you. In addition to other markets, this law addresses the issue of the promotion of renewable energy. It is known that it is currently subsidized in Ukraine. Tell me your position on a very controversial position about imposing a fine for imbalances created by renewable energy producers. How do you think this issue should be resolved?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u22	Yes, indeed, the law deals with very many issues that relate to, in particular, alternative sources of energy. Today all tariffs on alternative sources of energy, and that's solar energy, that's wind energy, that's biomass energy, it's cost regulated and determined by the Electricity Act. All the laws of the Law on Electricity are translated and transferred to this law. And as for the fines you're talking about, it's about taking responsibility for the so-called imbalances, which is that every manufacturer has to be responsible for their schedule of work and the production of electricity. But we've got all the observations from all the steakholders in the market and we've worked on it, and we're going to propose to the second reading the most important, consolidated and acceptable solution to each question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u23	Thank you. And one last question. Timoshenko is handing over Volodymyrna to Ulysses. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u24	The Fatherland faction will talk about this law fundamentally from the rostrum, because it essentially destroys the entire power system of Ukraine. But now I wanted to ask you a question. You're talking about the market. For example, a Ukrainian citizen wants to buy hydroelectric power, which is ten times cheaper than heat. Is he going to be able to do that? And if it is possible, will all other citizens of Ukraine be able to obtain hydropower at the same price? They won't. Because all of Ukraine's citizens don't have enough hydropower. That's why I have a question. Who's going to decide who sells ten times the cost of heat to hydropower, who's going to buy it, who's going to be nuclear, who's significantly lower in heat, who's going to determine in which office who's going to sell electricity at the price?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. In fact, I can't say that every citizen can directly buy hydropower. But any citizen can buy electricity from the seller that directly buys from the atomic generation or generation of hydropower. And as for the fear that close-minded persons or certain individuals will be able to buy cheaper where they want to, where they have government influence, we have foreseen within the framework of the rules, and this will be my personal allowance, I invite you to join it as well, and introduce an auction or competitive approach to buying cheaper, if it's cheaper, electricity. Because today the cheaper atomic generation is mostly due to underfunding programs such as recovery programs and the extension of block operation. And when it's on the market, I think we're going to be able to reduce the way the heat generation and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u26	Please, 30 seconds. I gave you time, 30 seconds, please. Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u27	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u28	Okay. Colleagues, so the report is completed. Thank you, Leo Theophilic. And now we're moving on to the next chapter, this is actually a faction statement. Then there will be the next chapter, I remind you, by the deputies. So for statements from factions and groups of parliament, please record. Jusek’s Tetjana Leonidivna of the Radical Party, conveys the word Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u29	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Bills of great importance that actually affect the pockets of every Ukrainian. Because the functioning of an independent Commission on the regulation of the municipal services market, regardless of the monopolies, regardless of the authority, means a reduction in tariffs. If the commission is in power, if the commission has. It is influenced by the monopoly, and Ukrainians in their own pocket have to pay for corrupt tariff decisions. And we see this in the example of the current commission under the control of the "wolf in the sheep's skin" of Rosheni, Mr. Vuka, who raises tariffs every month, because there are corrupt conspiracies there with Russian oligarchs including they have, and they pay for these corrupt plots to Ukrainians, each of their own pockets. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not support bills that will ultimately increase the cost of housing services for citizens. And we really don't see an independent commission, the National Commission on the regulation of the utility market. Under the Constitution, the President's credentials are exhaustive. This list does not have the authority to create NCRECR. At the same time, we see the functioning of a power-dependent commission, resulting in the suffering of all citizens. Because the commission is not an independent body today, because the commission is governed by the commission, not by law, but by the entrails and suitcases they bring to the committee. So the Radical Party faction insists that the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market be created in an entirely independent way. That the work of this commission should not be influenced by either the President or the government or the Parliament, that the members of this commission should be independent of both the monopolies and the influence of the authorities, and that the composition of the current commission should be changed immediately. In order for independent people to come there who have experience of work and who are aware of their responsibility for the decisions made, that each decision they make is either a yoke in the pockets of Ukrainian citizens when people cannot make ends meet when every Ukrainian today has to work on tariffs. Show me at least one country in the world where a person works 24 hours a day to pay for a utility, and he doesn't have enough money for that. What have you, the parasites, led the people to do? Go to begging! You're boasting today that 9 million households are getting subsidies, and saying it's a big feat, you have to give a hero a star for it. You're gonna get shot for it! Because when 9 million people receive subsidies as beggars, there is no future in Ukraine because a rich and powerful country will be when people pay taxes and live in dignity and have normal wages, not beggars thanks to you!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u30	Thank you. I'm going to tell the next reporter that we're now looking at the Law on the Electricity Market, 4493, and it's desirable to build a report on it. From Peter Prashenko's Block, I invite you to the word Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich. Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich gives the word. Colleagues, Peter Dusty Block, who's speaking? Rosenblatt, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u31	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, a very important law, the new Energy Act, on the relationship between consumers, is being obeyed today. consumers, among the generating companies, all those who want to develop and rebuild our country. The Peter Prashenko faction will appreciate this bill, but I'm just asking a few questions that I'd like to explain today. First of all, it's consumers who are going to be new houses today, creating new businesses. How will this law regulate the integration of these consumers into energy networks today? For more than two years, there will be constant discussions in the Cabinet of Ministers about what a new bill will be, there will be new attitudes, and, like all European countries, there will be communication, the networking of all networks will be to the construction sites. Why should this be on the shoulders of our citizens, future purchasers of apartments and real estate, and all that? Why is this issue not regulated again in this law? Here's the only question. In everything else, I think the bill is right, we need to support it, but this is a question, I see that we need to settle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the representative of the People's Front faction, Mr. Amazanov. He's giving the word to Mrs. Katzer-Buchovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u33	Good afternoon, dear fellows! An extremely important bill is the Electricity Market Act (number 4493), which is a de facto continuation of energy market reform and after the adopted Natural Gas Market Act. An important law, because it actually allows to liberalize the electricity market, which is historically monopolized in Ukraine, and these natural monopolies, which are abused by certain oligarchy groups, are a source of corruption and economic growth. This law is not only part of our reform agenda but is part of Euro-energy integration, since it is primarily Ukraine’s commitment to the Energy Society, according to the Third Energy Package, the Association Agreement, the Ukraine’s sustainable development strategy, so it is vital to adopt this law in the first reading. The main condition, the main importance of this law, is that it provides an opportunity in the future to create competitive conditions and work on the electricity market. First of all, it's a separation, an organizational separation between distribution and transmission of electricity from other types of activity, which is an important condition for the creation of competition and the requirement of the Third Energy Package. This law also establishes the creation of a forward-looking market, an internal balancing market, an auxiliary service market, which will also allow competition to be created and, according to previous reporters, in the future reduce the price of electricity. The second important condition for this law is that, in fact, the practical step for Ukrainian energy dependency is to connect and synchronize Ukrainian energy systems with European energy systems, this is to join the ENTSO-E system, this is part of ensuring the energy security of the state and our practical energy. Euro-energy integration. An extremely important long - term project that is impossible without the adoption of this law. However, I want to point out that the law we, the People's Front, only supports in the first reading. There are many still underwork and shortcomings that we will apply for second reading. In particular, I think it is necessary that we in Ukraine should support renewable energy sources and allow them to develop. At this point it's a subsidized kind of energy, but on the other hand, all the countries have gone through it. So I'm going to stand on the committee and say that renewable energy needs to be maintained in the future, and of course we have to solve the issue of fines on electricity imbalances, because this can also destroy green energy. So I very much ask all those responsible for the reforms to vote on this law in the first reading, to give us the opportunity to work on it in the second reading, and to take this important step towards the creation of an electric market.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u34	Thank you, dear colleague. Please go to the faction. [[Applause]] The faction is being invited by the representative of the Fatherskina faction, the leader of the Fatherskina faction, Julia Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u35	In principle, I'm pretty sure that everything I say in this room right now doesn't matter for those who have already received a push on the buttons. But I'll still say what I have to say. What is now being proposed was in Ukraine by the year 2000 and has led to light burning in the country in 1999-2000 for two hours in each region, and electricity corruption has reached a level that threatens the collapse of the country's energy system. Now, in 2000, we switched this system, which is being proposed today, to an English wholesale market model that worked successfully for 17 years, removed corruption and gave people light in every home. What really is the point? I'm going to start right now, and I'm going to continue when the factions come from the factions, from the individual deputies. Just so you know what the concept is about. There are four kinds of electricity in Ukraine. The first one is hydro, the second one is atomic, heat and renewable. They all naturally have different prices. Hydroelectric power has the lowest price, it's 10 times cheaper than heat, it's 5 times cheaper than heat, it's got different prices. Effective power plants have a lower price, inefficient – higher. Now the market works as follows. Hydro, atomic, heat at different prices -- everything seems to be in one optical energy supply. That's how Britain works. Then the average price goes off, and the average price goes to the country. What's proposed. And it's obvious that then there's transportation, it's different for different regions, but it's a fair price for electricity throughout the country. What's being proposed now. Direct contracts are now being proposed, which were before the year 2000. Hydroelectrics will trade directly to whom? The clans who paid the money. And when I asked Mr. Self-Help, can a Ukrainian citizen get hydropower? He said no, just through the middleman. Because of the middleman, this means that the price is going to be 5, 6 times higher, and then, understand what it's going to be: cheap hydro-, cheap atomic, washes off direct contracts on a totally corrupt model, and the heat road stays on the wholesale market in a state enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u36	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u37	And it's going to be passed to people at least 2, 3 times more expensive than it is today for people. My dears, it's not just corruption, it's mega-corruption, 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u38	Thank you. The MPs will just be speaking. 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u39	For 17 years, corrupters from all over the country broke the law, could not break it because the presidents and prime ministers were not suicides. Everything is being sold today. Stop and make no mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, from Self-Help, the leader of the faction. No, they're saying the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u41	The Self-Help faction will definitely support this bill, and I'll tell you why. First of all, the priorities for us as factions are the consumer's priorities and interests. These consumer interests can be secured through a competitive market, through competition among sellers, and the sellers can already buy, as the representative said, from Fatherland, it is the sellers who can buy cheaper electricity from manufacturers who can sell cheaper, not as they drop into a general boiler, into an energy market, and mix up, and buy some defined, regulated price. The very difference in electricity consumption schedules can give a completely different price to each consumer at a particular time. If the consumer works at night, and when there's a cheap generation of nuclear power stations, he's actually going to buy it from the seller who can give him the most convenient price. And that's actually the competition. Is it possible, if spoken, for a buyer to buy a physical person in the atomic generation? Would you please tell me if a trucker could buy, buy, not from a gas station, but from a manufacturer or a supplier of oil from another country? No, he can't. So built the whole world, which is wholesale, is a manufacturer and is a seller, and is a final consumer. That's the answer. So I think it's a completely wrong observation, and it can't be taken into account in the first reading of the bill. There was a question about the connection. Yes, it's one of the biggest and most corrupt issues in the electricity market. And if we talk about some teams, some oligarchs that require acceptance, I'd say that actually the biggest threat is actually for the oligarchs here, because we have oligarches in the production of electricity, and we're putting them on the competitive market, we have oligarchs both in sales and in distribution, because almost every Ukrainian oligarch is the owner of the olenerg. And that means monopolies and natural monopolies for sale and distribution. As for regulation, animal regulation, as another representative of the faction said, means that there is actually beast regulation we can move away from it, and only natural monopolies will remain on the shoulders of the NCRECR, which is the issue of transfer and distribution, but there is no question of production, transportation, distribution and all other matters that are regulated by the commission today. That's why I'm calling again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u42	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u43	Once again, I urge everyone to accept the bill in the first reading, gather around and work for the second. And I'll tell you more, we've already done a lot for the second reading. And that gives us a chance to change fundamentally, to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u44	15 more seconds and let's move on to the MPs' speeches, or we're not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u45	And the non-admission of the bill in question is the freezing of the situation where we can always find the extreme, but we will not be held accountable for our actions. So let's take it all into our own hands and make the labor market easier for our consumers than it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u46	I want to thank the factions for their position and for their clear analysis of the bill. And we're moving to the record of the national MPs of Ukraine. We have 15 minutes for the national deputies of Ukraine. Please sign up, your honors. Thank you. Please, Oleg Barna of the Peter Dust Block. Mr. Liege.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u47	Good afternoon, dear friends, MPs. The bill is, more than ever, necessary to finally resolve the relationship between the consumer and the provider of services. The entire Ukrainian people are already tired of the oblenergo silhouettes, the lies that are actually private structures under those schemes that they developed for Yanukovic by putting them to use. At the same time (used to use oligarchs), and now more than ever, it is necessary to regulate these relationships in order to protect the rights of regular consumers of these services, to enable them to select providers of services, to provide guarantees of quality services, and to oblige service providers to carry out their duties properly. That is to say, the bill strengthens consumer rights, while at the same time requiring service providers to comply with the Consumer Rights Act. I ask the members of the Supreme Council to promote this law in the first reading, and to the second reading we will make effective amendments that allow for a more qualitative preparation of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Cupry Vitaly Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, today we've heard Mr. Nasalik, Minister, present us a beautiful bill, and I want to remind you what he's doing to make the electricity market corrupt. First, on August 31st, on the Council of the wholesale electricity market, it was put to the vote and was adopted, which gave the opportunity to increase the power to produce power to the Slovenian, Starrobesev TEZ, which enters into the orbit of Yanukovic, is a company called Donbasenergo. I'd like to point out that it's hurting our budget and not just the budget, because it's actually killing an energy, let's say, industry in nuclear energy. This is done to trade coals with LNR and DNR, with uncontrolled Ukraine's territories, and finance terrorism. Under beautiful laws, many devices are now hidden in the energy field. I completely disagree with Mr. Nasalik's position. I don't think it's possible that he's now giving gas transport networks to Russian entrepreneurs, an aggressor, in fact. This person is doing everything he can to make sure that we have a mess in the energy field, and that's why there's no trust in this bill. On the other hand, I would like to point out that I support Mr. Oleg Laska in relation to the National Energy and Utilities Commission. I think these issues need to be addressed in a complex way, and I urge you not to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Matkovsky Bogdan Mironovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u52	Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalstina, Red City, National Control Political Party. You know, for some reason, it seems that these oligarchs have already bought the entire Cabinet of Ministers. Unfortunately, the bill says we put the car in front of the horse for some reason. Let me explain why. You know, instead, and you all know that all the archetypes are privatized and monopolies in their market are all Ukrainian oligarchs. So these oligarchs have set absolutely disproportionate conditions for the electricity supply to ordinary consumers. Instead of returning to government property and nationalizing the energy market of Ukraine first and making the state responsible for the energy market, and then as a responsible state, such as that in Germany or Poland, giving private energy-generating companies, if they are in Ukraine (although also the big question of privatising these energy-generating enterprises), they try to continue the monopoly in the market controlled by the state here under the beautiful word "electricity market". Well, people are good, today, in order for an ordinary Ukrainian peasant in a village to join electricity, you have to buy this distribution complex at your own cost, which costs several million dollars, which is the only condition for connecting to electricity, to this private house. And then they make a charity contribution to the Ahmetov or Surkis monopolies, like Westernergo, or anyone else, and they take it on balance, and then these few million privatize the skynergo, which is monopolistic. What market could we talk about if we did not first address the issue? I think we have to decide with the monopolies of the archenegro first, and then we have to continue to introduce a similar bill. Because without solving this issue of order, we will not name and suffer the end consumers themselves, because they will not be able to buy cheap electricity. I therefore propose not to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u53	Thank you. The next two reporters, Rybczyn and Eutuszek, are giving a six - minute performance by Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! I'm going to try to look at the intellectual potential of this room. If everything is politically defined, we want to look to the intelligence of individual deputies and their consciences. Now you're talking about the electricity market. I want you to ask yourself one intellectual question: one market in one country can compete with three energies: hydroelectric power, which costs a meser, just like Ukrainian gas, Ukrainian production, costs $15, the cost of producing a thousand cubic meters. Similarly, hydroelectric power is the cheapest, 10 times the cost of heat. And then you have heat energy coming out of the market, which is 10 times more expensive naturally, and you can't make it even with the efficiency of production. How can they compete with one another? How can nuclear power, which costs 5 times the cost of heat, compete with heat? You realize it's not a market. When I asked Mr. Self-Help about how a person would buy hydropower, he said it wouldn't buy directly, there would be intermediaries. I have three questions. First, who will determine the mediator and who will ten times the cost in his pocket. I just want to be absolutely clear that with this power, I don't believe in any competition. It's pure corruption. And I realize that if the President of the country, and I don't think he's intellectual, he understands what he's doing, I know exactly who will be the middleman between the hydropower plants and the people and who will be the middleman between the nuclear power plants and the people. There'll be Roschen Corporation or any of its metastases. Because the President can't stop. Or if he sold this opportunity to someone as a mediator, let them show me these intermediaries and tell me how much they paid for it. Don't you understand that there's no market here? And lastly, 3.5 minutes, I want to tell you how it has to be and how it really is in other developed countries. There's an energy plant that works today. There's state-owned nuclear power, state-owned hydroelectric power, and heat, which is made up of both state and private. That's what we have left to inherit from previous times. Today they're all in the market, they're balanced and they're giving the average cost of electricity to the market. But all the electricity, all the generation -- atomic, heat -- we're out of date, they're literally ten years away from being usable. And so what you have to do is you have to do all the incentives that we have with you and give them to those who will build new generating power in the heat energy, maybe renewable energy, and give them the right to supply without a wholesale market. Because then these new objects will be able to create their price and gradually create a market. We can completely exempt them from all taxes, because it's important that our generating powers be replaced by more new and modern ones. What can we have? We can also develop wind energy, and, remember this word, geothermal energy, in Ukraine there are powers, it can develop, including, and any other renewable. But come on. By the way, there are beautiful coal fields in unoccupied areas that can be developed and built by new thermal power plants that are modern with completely different technologies for coal use, including low quality. And let them go to a completely free market! But if this law is now passed, I guarantee you that it will be voted for by the Opposition Block, that it will be voted for by all the oligarchy groups in this room, because it is pure corruption in pure form. It's billions in the pockets of certain people, and it's billions of Ukrainians' pockets because of a higher tariff on thermal electricity, which is the only one left for the people. No atomic and no hydro. Don't ruin it! There's a lot of money paid for this law, and then someone has to go after it, just like a gas market that doesn't exist, and the minister said it, you've heard it. Stop ruining the country! You don't know how to build -- at least don't ruin it until you leave the country and get out of office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u55	Thank you. And the final performance is Gus Igor Vodimirovich, the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u56	I give the word to Katzer-Buchkowsky Natalica.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u57	My colleagues, once again, I am addressing you with regard to this bill. In fact, for Ukraine this is the only chance and opportunity to reform the electricity market. This process was not simple in any state, and all nations were involved in the demonopolization of natural monopolies and deligarchiization of, in fact, energy markets. Nobody says it's gonna be easy. I agree with all the criticism on the account of the archergo, their monopoly on the fact that it is difficult to connect to the ordinary consumer. But if we don't take this first step, we won't have a chance in Ukraine to create a full market for electricity. Before the second reading, we'll have enough time to figure it out. correct the flaws in the bill, and they are there. However, for Ukraine, this is the only way to attract investment for market reform, so please support this bill. It will enable the creation of a system framework to reform the energy market. Competition has never been created when there are monopolies and manual management of the economy, including energy. It was convenient for someone today, but, nevertheless, we must overcome this oligarchy influence and move on to the new competitive model of the electricity market, as well as the natural gas market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are two final statements by the committee from the Ministry. To whom do we give the first? The first lady, from the Ministry of Nasalika's final, then Dombrowski. And, colleagues, in three or four minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. And I ask the factions to invite a fellow MP into the decision-making room. Please, Nasalik Igor Stepanovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u59	First of all, I would like to say, honourable national deputies, that we did not create a new law. These laws exist and work, and it is the work of all European countries. We worked actively with this law together with the European Union Secretariat, with all those working in the European market. I didn't see it in the European market, being in many countries where corruption is developing, and vice versa, the consumer's attitude is at the heart of it. Today, much has been said about hydropower, and I would like to expand the subject a little bit. In Ukraine a balance is created in such a way that hydropower takes part in peaks, and it costs more on peaks than thermal energy. The balance is created in such a way that we take total atomic energy. After that, we give Veda everything. And I want to say, the MPs asked me a question about this: we don't limit the renewables to the production of electricity. Then we include hydropower, and how does the final generation produce heat that closes the entire balance of our nation? Without it, we can't work either. Many questions, and I am grateful that there were consumers today. During the last two months, the Prime Minister of Ukraine has given the task, and it has been considered in the Cabinet of Ministers, and a new decision will be issued within a month in the NCRECR that gives consumers at least 50 megawatts to unhindered connectivity. This provides virtually all the medium-sized business. In addition, we have implemented 402 regulations that separate energy and energy from the Ukrenergo structure and introduce the central structure of executive organs, which makes this system clear and transparent. That's why we don't make bicycles, we go through the system of legislation that Europe is working on. And that's the basic position. We're not testing our system. In particular, I want to conclude that the system that we're working on in our country today is, by law, 27 billion dollars in debt, 27 billion dollars! Can the system work like this? No, it's not. Therefore, we are obliged to change into a new form. And once again, I would like to point out that this bill is based on a consumer who has never been considered in other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u60	Thank you. And the final word from the committee is Dombrovsky. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u61	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow national MPs, first of all, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the Head of the Supreme Council for fulfilling the promise that today at last is an energetic day in the Supreme Council. And once again, I want to reiterate who, in terms of reforming the country and improving living standards, if we don't reform the energy sector, if we don't make it honest, transparent, competitive, European, no reforms in Ukraine, at least in the economic field, are impossible. Thesis two. Sadly, we are already late to adopt this law. But at the same time, I would like to agree with Julia Timoshenko from this rostrum because, in fact, in 2000 a historically correct decision was made. But, colleagues and friends, there have been a lot of problems on the market in 16 years. Today, the minister has just said, almost 30 billion dollars, it's an internal debt that exists in the energy market, 16 billion, we've been talking about cheap nuclear energy here, and 16 billion the debt of energy before Energoatoma, which can't function normally, which today has a huge set of problems that need to be solved. I'd like to bring one fact. From the point of view of the installed generation in Ukraine, which we have today, we have about 56 gigawatts. Yeah, it has different periods of entry into operation there, but for example, last day, peak load, peak of last day was 18.3 gigawatt, which is more than half of the installed energy old non-competitive infrastructure that doesn't work today. We need to create market conditions that are working today in the countries of the European Union. Show me at least one person in this room, one entrepreneur, a businessman, or the owner of a large company, who is governed by the rules of association. Can any investment project today be small, large, implemented in Ukraine? It's impossible, because the corruption that's in the energy sector, the corruption that's connected to the power grids, it's just making it miserable. So let's leave as we are, we can't, we have to move forward. And once again, I want to thank you for a very serious discussion. Is this law ideal? No, it's not. But this is the first reading we've ever read, the first reading we've accepted. For the second reading, we have the opportunity to make a lot of changes and work fundamentally with it. But at the same time, once again, this is a bill that we worked on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u62	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u63	This is a bill that we worked on a model of the European Union countries along with our European partners. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u64	Thank you. One minute, Timoshenko's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u65	I have great respect for Mr. Dombrowski, and, in principle, a historic decision has been made. But I also support the positive things that Mr. Dombrowski said from the rostrum. But you can't cover up the corruption model that is now being offered on the market with the right things about connecting to the power grid. So we're proposing to divide everything good that's in this law, and there are some good things that don't have to do with the functioning of the market, to put it into separate bills, but the market itself can't function like it's supposed to, because it's pure corruption. The Fatherland Party, the Fatherland faction will vote with red buttons against. We call on all the deputies who think about the fate of Ukraine and the fate of the people to vote against this law. And we urge you not to miss this corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u66	I'll remind you, there are no replicas. If you report correctly, there will be no basis for a replica. My colleagues, I would like to emphasize that we are adopting a bill in the first reading. I can confirm that this is a requirement of our European partners. Above all, it is a commitment that we have long made to our society. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. I'm gonna say it again. Just the first reading, I'll bet only on the first reading of the bill. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall, now I'm going to put to the vote the draft Law on the Electricity Market of Ukraine. The discussion is over. And I'm voting on the draft Power Market Act of Ukraine (number 4493) as proposed by the committee on a basis, colleagues. Whoever supports this decision, please vote on the basis. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:16:21]] For 237 Decision taken. I welcome the committee, I welcome the authors, I want a fruitful second reading work, and I want everyone to take into account the suggestions that have been made here. Dear colleagues, let's move on to second reading. This is certainly a key draft law today, the draft National Commission Act, which is implementing state regulation in the areas of energy and utilities, an extremely important and damaging bill that we have passed. I'm asking everyone to stay put. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bilkov Olga Valentinovna. Please. I'll remind you, in the last few weeks, we've been discussing it for two and a half hours and sending it back for a second read. Please, Olga Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, you are invited to consider the draft National Commission Act, which regulates national energy and utilities (registration number 2966-d), which we adopted on the first reading on April 12, 2016. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14 July 2016 Unfortunately, the bill was returned to the committee for a second reading. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, taking into account the provisions of article 124 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the specificities of preparing drafts for re-reading the comparative table that you have been given, include all the proposals and amendments that have been made to the draft articles of the draft for the previous second reading, other than those of the authors, as well as the new proposals and amendments to the bill made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, in the established legislation of the time following the submission of the bill to the ugly second reading. A total of 247 suggestions and amendments, including 104, were included in the table in part 14 and 96 were taken into account in line. As a result of the consideration of amendments and proposals, the bill was further elaborated in this part. First. The formation of a competitive commission has been improved, resulting in the need to balance the various branches of government (Acts 32, 42, 248, 250). Clarified positions that ensure transparency and transparency in the performance of the controller. The issue of the salaries of members of regulators and employees of the territorial apparatus is arranged (No. 80). The personal responsibility of the members of the regulator has been enhanced. A list of the reasons why a member of the regulator may be released, which creates additional means for the independence of the regulators when making decisions (rules 59, 60). Principles for calculating and setting tariffs for natural monopolies (No 162) have been defined. Development and approval of licensing conditions (163). I'm also informing you that the people's deputies, me, Lev Podlisecki, Alona Babak, Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky, who represent several different factions were. There have been attempts to make some compromises that have been called upon to resolve issues, including the establishment of qualifications requirements for regulators, the mandatory requirement for a minimum of three years of experience in the field of energy or utilities, as well as two years of experience in management positions (No. 18, included). Additional guarantees are provided for the publicity and transparency of competitive activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u68	Olya, tell me what to add. How much do you add? Three more minutes, I don't think anyone will mind, it's an important report. Please report for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u69	Additional guarantees are provided for the publicity and transparency of the competitive commission. In particular, competition sessions will take the form of open hearings and will ensure that representatives of the public, international organizations, national deputies of Ukraine are present. A comprehensive list of documents submitted by the applicant has been established. Predicted mandatory public information on persons who have applied for the competition, as well as on everyone’s part, without excluding the selection stages for the members of the regulator. — Law No. 44. These amendments were all supported by a profile committee. I also point out that the most controversial issue in the drafting of the bill was the question of the time frame during which the members of the regulator would rotate. I am informing you that as a result of numerous discussions and discussions, two possible solutions have been formed. The gradual rotation of regulators – over 18 months, every six months three, two and two members respectively, and so-called zero rotation – since the law became effective. As a result of the discussions, an additional meeting was held yesterday with representatives of the World Bank, EBRD (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development) and USAID (United States Agency for International Development). And it was decided to support as a compromise with the progressive rotation of regulators over an 18-month period. I mean, regulations 187 and 188 were taken into account by the committee, and amendment 186 was rejected accordingly. I also stress that the Committee has confirmed its decision on rights relating to the scope of the regulatory activity and the disposal of household waste in quantities exceeding the level established by the licensing conditions. The people’s deputy, Derevyanka, introduced nine rights, which were considered at the meeting and all rejected. The amendments are rejected by the committee because they do not meet the principles of independence of the regulators, and they are totally dependent on the legislative branch of authority. I also personally introduced a number of technical rights as a result of a preliminary discussion in the second reading and according to the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all were supported. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fuel and Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meetings on September 07, 2016, taking into account the additions supported by the Committee on September 21, 2016, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u70	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u71	As the law in the paper proposed by the committee. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u72	Thank you, please, sit down. Dear colleagues, the bill has a huge number of amendments. Please stay in the rostrum, please stay in the rostrum, Olu. And we're moving on to the amendments, and the committee didn't give us any other suggestions except how to go to the amendments. So 1st amendment, Len. So, 1st revision, Lensky, does it insist? Don't insist. 2nd, Babak. Don't insist. 5 revisions. Don't insist. It's a 6-mendment. Turn on the microphone, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! I would like first of all to thank all the national MPs who did not vote for the corrupt law as if it were the electricity market. I thank you that there is a part of conscience in the Supreme Council. And secondly, this law about how the gas market went through, as I warned you, with the voices of the Opposition Block. So it's obviously a clan bill that was passed by Prussianko along with Jacenuk and Groissman. But now we're going to talk about another law that's crucial to the country, which is the National Commission for Electricity Control. It's setting tariffs, it's 800 billion dollars -- the market, it's more than a government budget. This body must be independent of any authority. This law extends to an organ dependent on the President and, more than a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a half, there's a person called Roschen-Wolf who's against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u74	Please comment, Mrs. Olu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u75	As far as I can tell, the presentation was not related to Amendment 6. I don't insist, I'm the author, by the way. If you want to take it off, please, if that's a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u76	So there's a requirement, a 6 amendment for confirmation. Dear colleagues, the 6th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Belkovy is confirmed. Whoever supports this proposal, which is a proposal from the committee that the committee has supported, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:27:22]] For-149 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 9th, Babak. Don't insist. 7th, Pinzenic. Can I give you my word or bet? Comment on the 7th amendment, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u77	Thank you, Mr. Head. This amendment led to a very lively discussion. There are two concepts in which the future NCREKP should set tariffs for large and small cities there according to the general methodology. At the same time, there is another view that the NCRECR should not impose any methods or tariffs on the management of household waste. Our committee, at the request of the very well-founded People's Front, supported this amendment as one of the compromises. This law is all made up of compromises. So I ask my colleagues to determine by their vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u78	So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number seven of People's Deputies Pinzenic. The committee supported her. Dear colleagues who support this amendment, please vote. 7th confirmation check. Please vote. [[11:29:12]] For-142 The decision is not made. Nine, Babak, don't insist. 10th, Babak, don't insist. 13th, Melniczuk, don't insist. 16th, Podlisecki, don't insist. 19th, Podlisecki, don't insist. 17th row, turn on Odarchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, members of the commission who will determine the cost of tariffs must certainly be qualified. We have a very bad example when the wolf who runs this commission made a lot of criminal mistakes, and essentially set illegal tariffs for heat and gas. Today, you propose to reduce the qualification of members of the commission to three years. I insist that Belkovy's amendment be confirmed and we choose people who are qualified to understand what they're doing, what they're voting for, and not those who were working somewhere in Roshen or other structures and who are organizing someone. Please place amendment 18 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u80	Will you comment, Mrs. Ola? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u81	So I'm going to comment on this, really this question was another compromise that I, Alona Babak, Podlisecki, Katzer-Buchovsky, were trying to find. For that reason, Dmitri Vuka is not three years old today, so we tried to get young specialists involved. But in order to avoid, well, a certain discussion around one person, we raised the deadline to a level that makes it impossible for him. But today I think five will be fine, so I ask you to vote, determine how you feel about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u82	Amendment 17, right? Can you explain to me why this excitement is so great? I'm betting each one on confirmation, and I'm betting on every confirmation. Why is there so much emotional excitement in the hall? Calm down, focus. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a vote to confirm amendment 18. The committee supported it as a compromise, I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number 18. Please vote. We vote amendment 18. [[11:32:04]] For-144 The decision is not taken. 24th is Podlisecki. Don't insist. 25th is Belkova. Don't insist. Colleagues, please. 26 amendments. 26-a, this is Rybčina. It's written that counts, Rybčina. Please, Rybchin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u83	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Colleagues, this is a very important amendment that philosophically changes another form of this commission. Because we don't have a political consensus right now. And the fact that this commission now under this bill will be fully controlled by the President's Administration, which will be responsible for these tariffs and for all of this disgrace that will be done with energy and utilities in our country, we offer to our colleague Vojcitsky another philosophy: to choose these commissioners by means of non-electronic drawing. A commission will be set up to collect summaries and check for qualifications, and then on the committee we will look at and interview these people, and they will decide whether to become members of this commission or not, by means of non-electronic drawing. This is a necessary measure when we do not have confidence and when we have the usurpation of this NCREKP by one political force and one political institution. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u84	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, this amendment has been considered and recognized as one that makes it impossible for members of the nominee commission to be selected objectively. Part of it was included in the part that relates to the openness of the work of the next sampling commission. The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u86	Once again, put to the vote. Whoever supports Amendment 26, People's Deputy Rybchin, please vote. Please vote on who supports the 26th amendment, please vote on it. Please. [[11:34:42]] For 124 124 for. The decision is not made. 27th, Derevyanka. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u87	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues, the honourable ones present, my amendment is to make the commission truly independent. How can this be done? I propose that this commission be elected by the Supreme Council by two thirds of the constitutional composition, i.e. 300 votes, and earlier, that these experts, who will be delegated and elected by the Supreme Council, be held in each faction with appropriate selection and competition, and by factions, be delegated. This is the maximum independence that can be guaranteed. Once again, the Supreme Council will choose them and once and for all, it will not be able to take them off, because it also requires 300 votes. Instead, today we have a commission of two from the President, from the Supreme Council, and in fact from the President -- two persons and one person -- from the Cabinet, too. So this is going to be a completely dependent commission in what is today. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u88	Please turn on Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the amendment actually makes the regulator dependent on the work of the Supreme Council. As soon as the Supreme Council is elected, the commission is elected, when the Supreme Council is divided, the commission is also divided. Therefore, the proposed procedure for the selection and release of regulators is unacceptable because it creates a regulator’s dependence on the sole legislative branch. Thank you. The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment of the 27th National Deputies of Derevyanco. The committee does not support this. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:36:39]] Z-71 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, in the course of this discussion, I want to tell you something important. For the last time, two and a half hours we discussed and made no decision. At the same time, it was one of the biggest criticisms to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that failed to make a decision on an independent regulator from our partners. I very much ask that when there are principled things, put them to a vote, not just to speak out of one position or another. I have a big request to everyone that we work dynamically and constructively. I'm moving on. Next 30, Podlisecki. He insists. Please, Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u91	Amendment 30 for my authorship also refers to the creation of principles for the formation of a nomination commission, which is the committee that will elect the members of the regulator. My suggestion is that one representative of the President of Ukraine, three representatives of the Supreme Council, and one representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, should be appointed to the nomination committee. I think only in this configuration can we expect a balanced approach and a professional approach to the election of regulators. So I would suggest that you accept, vote and support Amendment 30 and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u92	Will you comment, Mrs. Ola?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u93	This amendment was also discussed very carefully on the committee. She was one of the so - called compromises, unfortunately she did not find the support of the committee. The committee does not recommend that it be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the 30 national deputy of Podlisecki, who was rejected by the committee, please vote. Please. [[11:38:40]] For 101 The decision is not made. 31st Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 33rd, Podlisecki. 32nd, 32nd Amendment. Turn on the Vojcitsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u95	Again, you and I are going back to the way in which the composition of the board is formed, which is going to select the members of the regulator. My colleague, Leo Podlisecki, has offered a really compromise option where we have a decrease in the President's influence on the assignment and the influence and significance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's not forget that we live with you and work in a parliamentary-presidential country. The proposed amendment of Dombrovsky is a concept that is destructive to the balance of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u96	Please, Mrs. Olu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u97	Well, I think it would be right if the author did comment on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u98	Please, I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall, there'll be a vote now. And please comment, Mr. Dombrowski, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I insist on this. I consider it to be balanced, objective, and balanced by various branches of government. Moreover, if anyone does not like the model of the parliamentary-presidential republic as laid down in the Constitution, please work on changing the Constitution. And let's not trade facts or shift political balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll ask for confirmation. Everyone please take up their jobs. I understand that this is one of the fundamental amendments discussed on the committee. And it may depend on voting in general for the bill. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking for confirmation of amendment number 32 of Dombrowski's national MP, who was supported by the committee, and the committee is calling for a vote in favour of amendment number 32. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please 32, please support. Vote. [[11:41:15]] For 209 But this is close to making a decision. If there's a requirement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, colleagues, every time every bill, regardless of whether it came from any faction, I put it back once. And sometimes when there was a bill, like Krulka from Fatherland, I put it back three times. And that's the right I used to be fair to everyone, colleagues. So I'm going to put it back once, because it's principled and close to results. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. So, my colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Amendment 32. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:42:33]] For the 220. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it, colleagues. I see we haven't made it. But. Fellows, once again, and then we move on, colleagues. My colleagues, who, in order to get back to 32nd, show me that they haven't made it, that's the last vote. Please vote. 32rd, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:43:20]] For 215 The decision is not taken, 215. Let's move on to the next amendment. 33rd, Podlisecki. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 35th, Podlisecki. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 40th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 41st, Rybchin. 37th, Kugel. Please turn on the microphone. Turn on Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I think it's up to each of you people's deputies to come by tariffs and complaints about NCREs for what they don't understand that they don't respect people, that we are the MPs with you. And that's why I wrote in my amendment that I think there should be consumer representatives on the competition committee. Millions, tens of millions of Ukrainians, suffer from decisions by unqualified representatives of the NCREKP. And we can, and we are obliged to include in a competition commission representatives of public organisations representing the interests of consumers in the relevant areas of regulation. These are also all-Ukrainian organizations of OSBB, these are other organizations that protect consumers' rights. Please support me, because that settles the relationship. It's not just the decision of the deputies and the Kabmin, it's the right of the people to represent themselves on the committee and defend their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u102	Will you comment, Mrs. Ola?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u103	We carefully considered Mrs. Kugel’s suggestions and wanted to accept them. At the same time, the law does not provide a procedure for the appointment to a competitive commission of representatives of public organizations, as well as of subjects and entities who will be authorized to resolve the matter. The law itself reads literally: "At least three representatives of public organisations representing consumer interests in the relevant areas of regulation." We didn't agree on which organizations were involved, and we took part in our procedure and allowed the public to take an advisory vote. We didn't support 37 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the 37th Amendment applies to the vote of People’s Deputies, Kugel. The committee does not support it. Whoever supports the 37th amendment, please vote. [[11:46:14]] For 116 The decision is not made. Next amendment to the 40th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u105	Colleagues, the next amendment of the 40th People's Deputies of Efimov. Is the national deputy of the Ephesians insisting? Don't insist. 41st People's Deputy Rybchin. Is the national MP Rybchin insisting? Don't insist. Next amendment to the 46th People's Deputy, Levchenk. Is he insisting? We can't see. Next up, 50th People's Deputy Levchenka. Don't insist. 58th, People's Deputy Kugel. Is he insisting? Please turn on Mrs. Kugel's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen! In the assignments we have today, we have scandals about how MPs buy apartments, and we have Mr. Wolfe with very simple declarations, his beloved girlfriend bought a house for two million, and no one is investigating it. And we want to give him two terms of office. And so my amendment was that there can't be more than one term -- six years -- then we have the opportunity not to grow corruption there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u107	Mrs. Belkova, will you comment or will we immediately put on confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u108	I think we're putting it on confirmation right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u109	Let's bet on confirmation, vote on amendment 58, Mrs. Kugel, please. [[11:48:12]] For 134 Correction not supported. Next, 62 amendments to the People's Deputy Levchenka. He's gone. Next, 65th National Deputy Vojcitsky, do you insist? Don't insist. Next, the 67th Lensky National Deputy, you insist, Mr. Lensky, we can't see. Next up, 68th People's Deputy Dove. Don't insist. 73rd People's Deputy Vojcitsky. Mrs. Wojcietzka, do you insist? Don't insist. Next, 78th National Deputy Babak, do you insist? Don't insist. Next up, 82nd People's Deputy Rybkin insists. Please turn on the Ridder microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u110	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. With this amendment, my colleague Alona Skrum and I propose that we replace the word "supply" with "supply." So we wanted to achieve the independence of this regulator so that they would get a decent salary and not depend on the instructions from above. But how can we give this regulator an independent salary if they're related to gas tariffs that are incomprehensible, to Rotterdam Plus, to coal pricing, to these scandals and to all their other sponsors. That's why we're definitely against this composition of the regulator. Moreover, we have brought him to trial for unwarranted tariffs. And we suggest that the rotation be created, as amended, which will be further. Either in three months, or in six months, this organ is fully rotated. We recruit new honest, transparent people to regulate and regulate consumer-producer relationships.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u111	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of the amendment of the People's Deputy Rybchin. Please vote. [[11:50:22]] For the 120th. Not supported. Next, the 83rd National Deputy of Vojcitsky. Are you insisting, Mrs. Wojcietsky? Are you insisting? Don't insist. 84th People's Deputy Ribča's Amendment. Are you insisting? He insists. Please protect the amendment will be Mrs. Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u112	And, dear friends, we're talking about the National Commission on Electricity Control in this room right now. So once again, I want to remind you that they're setting tariffs on virtually every element of the population's energy supply, including. Well, in industry, so are entrepreneurs. I would like to stress once again that the very main value of this commission is its independence. In this law, the National Electricity Regulatory Commission and its head will be totally dependent on the President, no matter what name the President has. And secondly, they have made such an amendment on the committee, such an addition to this law, which gives Mr. Wolf the right to work for a year and a half without even paying attention to this law. If this is supported, it will override the whole concept of NCRE at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Timoshenko. The approval is subject to amendment number 84. Please vote. [[11:52:17]] For-99 Only 99 national deputies were supported, so there is no support for this amendment. Next, '90s, Mrs. Wojcietsky. Are you insisting? Mrs. Wojcietzka! 90th Amendment. Don't insist. Your next one, too, 91st, do you insist? No, it's not. Next, 93rd, Mrs. Babak, do you insist? Don't insist. Next, 94th, Wojcietsky, do you insist? No, it's not. Next, 95th, Rybchin, do you insist? He insists. Please, Mr. Rybka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u114	Once again, if we go through the final version of the version where the commission will form on the President's Administration quotas, we need to understand that all tariff responsibility will be this political force represented by the President, and personally by the President's Administration, and those who will vote for it. That's why the commission has to be independent, we have to adopt this bill, because it's important, it creates, in fact, the terms of the regulator, it's linked to 600 million euros of macro-financial assistance, and our European colleagues have been waiting for this bill for a long time. But we're not going to make fiction and create a pseudo-independent regulator that's going to be addictive and that's going to be doing all the "hotels" of all the corrupters, all those who want to "drive" their transformers at an overpriced price, coal from LNR-DNR at an overpriced price, and those who are going to take tariffs from the population at a cloudy price. So please support this amendment and the independent controller.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u115	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 95. Voting. [[11:54:07]] For-138 Correction not supported. Next amendment, 97th, Mrs. Babak. Don't insist. 99th, Mrs. Babak. Don't insist. 100th, Mrs. Babak, too. Don't insist. 103rd, Olena Babak, does not insist. 105th, Olena Babak, does not insist. 108th, Olena Babak, 108th? Don't insist. 109th, Lensky, doesn't insist. 110th, Levchenko, missing. 113th, Drevijanka, insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, Amendment 113, where I propose that the decision of the NCREKP be a regulatory act, the essence of which is that it has a publication procedure, a discussion procedure, a disclosure procedure before the NCREKP adopts the relevant decisions. We know that they now adopt decisions with a back number, not transparently, and not only do consumers have problems, but they also have problems with even OSBB, and all other associations of owners of apartments, because they cannot pay on time for the new services and tariffs they have set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u117	Please confirm Amendment 113, we vote. [[11:55:49]] For-76 No correction supported. Next up, 114th People's Dereviant. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, it means that if there is no political will to do a full transparency procedure, 114 amendments are also considered. to ensure that the procedure is transparent in light of any decision taken by the NCRECR. But according to a valid text that the committee proposes to leave, there is a rule that does not reveal information that is determined by the commission on the basis of the concern of interested persons. I want to tell you that the interested persons will be all the owners of the greenhouse, all the owners of the greenhouse, or the oligarch. I think either we should put this amendment, which we are currently discussing, or the second reading, into re-second reading, if the law is not approved, just correct it. Otherwise, we will continue to have a system where interested persons, oligarchs, are offered to shut down, make information confidential, and this information will not be available to our consumers, to those who receive services on such crazy tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u119	Please have 114 revisions for confirmation. [[11:57:15.]] Z-91 91 deputies. No correction supported. Next up, the 115th National Deputy, Olena Babak. Don't insist. 118th, Mrs. Babak. Don't insist. 120th, Drevijanko. Don't insist. Next, 123rd, Babak. Don't insist. Now, now, now. 123rd, Babak. Don't you insist? I'll be back, well, I already announced 123. Don't insist. Now I'm coming back, I hear. 119th, Rybchin. It's rejected. Please, Mr. Rybchin. 119 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u120	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Colleagues, this is a very important amendment that relates to the functioning of an energy ombudsman, or a tariff ombudsman. She says that every draft decision by a commission that has signs of a regulatory act and that prices and tariffs are set for the population is subject to scrutiny by an energy ombudsman. In this bill, we're creating an energy ombudsman, or we're giving the government a mandate to create. But we know that full government incompetence and incompetence will not allow the creation of an independent energy ombudsman, so the "Fatherland" faction is now developing this bill that can balance maybe some of these fancy appetites of the regulator in order to protect very small consumers. Therefore, a request to support this amendment in order to give the energy ombudsman such weapons against improper regulatory decisions. This institution has to be created because we have both business ombudsmen and police ombudsmen. There must be an energy ombudsman who will primarily protect the interests of small consumers, not corporations and oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Let's bet on confirmation 119 of the amendment. Voting, please. And I think that just at the end of the amendment vote, there's Mrs. Ola, I saw how the reporter had some observations. You're going to sum it up, okay, then? 119th. [[11:59:22]] For 114 114 votes only supported. So it's not coming through. 124 amendment, national deputy of the Ephesians. Are you insisting? 123rd -- I just announced. You just told her before that you didn't insist. Mr. Derevyanko, in a voice. 124 amendment, Mr. Ephimov. Is he insisting? You, Mr. Devyanko, 121st, said you didn't insist. You want to say more. Please turn on the microphone and we will listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, this is the 121th amendment where the draft regulatory decision is to be discussed. I propose that the draft regulatory decisions be open-ended and that if the draft regulatory decision concerns a particular region or territorial community concerned, the discussion should be with the involvement of local authorities and local self-government authorities. I don't understand why I don't want to support this amendment, because it's very important for every community where tariffs are discussed by the regulator on the decisions that are being made. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u123	Thank you. The vote is amended by 120 People's Deputies of Derivyanka, 121st. Whoever supports this amendment has rejected it, please vote. [[12:00:58]] For-88 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'm continuing my work until the hearing is closed. I call on the people's deputies, because all the speeches have called for the law to be adopted. To work dynamically, where there's a principle thing -- to take a word where it's unscrupulous so that we can move on. A lot of changes. So the next 131st, Pinzenik. 127th, 126th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u124	124th, 124th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u125	124th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 126th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 127th, Kugel. Please. Kugel, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u126	I want to go to all the Eurooptimists and everyone who's yelling about and supporting Euro-integration and to those who represent the government today. You and I have passed the Licensing Act, which is fully approved by the European Commission and is in line with European legislation. This bill does not have the right to accept the license conditions of the NCRECR without a report and approval by the Cabinet of Ministers. And so with amendment 127, and then 139 and 141, we suggest that we write that it actually develops licensing terms, but it brings them to the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers. Why is this necessary? Because we're with you, then you're going to yell that there are corruption factors that are now narrowing down the market and allowing you to work only for your own companies. In all countries, the licensing conditions are always clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u127	30 seconds, please. Turn on the microphone, 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u128	..that Energy Minister won't have the right to make a note if he sees that opaque licensing conditions have been made. So the amendments 127, 139 and 141 touch one that they're developing licensing conditions, but they're clearly approved in the Cabinet of Ministers, like all the licensing conditions in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 127 people's deputies, Kugel. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:03:49]] For 131 The decision is not made. Next, 131st, Pinzenik. Don't insist. 133rd, Babak. Don't insist. 136th, Babak. Don't insist. 129th in us. 129th, I'm sorry, I'll find her. She's already a long way back. So let's start at 131, one minute. I was wondering if you were. I'll be right back, I'll look around and find it. 131, one minute. Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, you and I have not accepted the number 7 regulation on household waste. And according to now or we need every correction that's involved to confirm, or I can just count the adjustments. This is 131-a, 206-a, 222-a, 223-a, 224-a, 225-a, 226-a, 227-a, 230-a, and 240-a, this is the derivative of the number 7 line that we didn't support with you. Or we're just going to vote whether we support them or not, but they're coming out of Amendment 7, which is no longer confirmed. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u131	Mrs. Alona, I have such an offer that before the final vote, we can correct everyone who is in trouble. Let's do this, but before the vote, so we don't jump out of the editing. Does that make sense, Mrs. Ola? I'll give you my word before the vote and we'll adjust. Do you have a deal? That's the way it goes. Then this vote will be, but it will be before the 131st vote. I promise and I give you my word, and we put it to the vote. It's 129th, Martovicki. Please turn on the microphone, Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u132	Respectful colleagues, on the basis of the bill, do not agree with anyone and do not try to justify them in Minsk, and it is therefore wrong to give to the Commission one-managed development and approval of such an important document as licensing conditions, which is the key document for operators operating in the relevant areas. I believe that the National Commission should be a licensing authority, develop licensing conditions and monitor their execution by the operators. But such licensing conditions should only be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as provided for by a valid version of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of activities of the economy. Therefore, I insist on the deletion of the second paragraph of section 3 of article 17 of the bill. And please also vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the 129th National MP, Martovický (she was rejected by the committee), please vote. Please vote. [[12:07:13]] For 114 The decision is not made. So 133, Babak. Don't insist. 136, Babak. Mrs. Alona, I promise you, once again I say more clearly, take the earpiece. You said there were 5 amendments scattered around the text. I promise that at the end of the vote, we will discuss what are the problems in the bill as a whole, so that we don't jump now on many amendments. I promise I'll put what you're asking for confirmation before the bill. Because you're saying amendments that are in the body of the law in different places. 139th, Kugel. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u134	My fellow Members, once again, I would like to point out that in violation of the Law that we have passed with you on licensing certain types of business, there is a complete monopoly here that the approval of licensing conditions is only adopted in a closed form by NCREKP and no one has been able to even convince them that it makes it impossible for them to make them transparent and create corruption risks. I ask all factions, if this remains, not to vote in favour of this bill, because it violates the already in force bills that have been approved for European integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u135	Are you insisting on the 139th vote? He insists. Who supports the amendment of the 139th people’s representative of Kugel, who was. Well, I have to put it separately. It's just that if 139 doesn't work, I won't even bet the next. 139th, which is supported by the committee, please vote. 139, yes. Please vote who supports it. [[12:09:18]] For 128 The decision is not made. So I don't take the next one, because they're just coming out of it. 145th, Belkova. Don't you insist? Well, we were just looking at it in 141st, so be careful, Kugel reported it. 146th. Babak. Well, 142th, Kugel just came out and said it was coming out of this one. Everything we can get. Mr. Rybczyn, we can delay the decision-making issue for another three minutes. If it's really important to you, please take one minute of Rybchin, 141.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u136	This is really the 140th and 142nd principle of licensing, the question that Mrs. Kugel reported. We talked to representatives of the European Energy Secretariat, and they said it was a political issue, and it was up to the Supreme Council to decide how it should be. That is, this is not regulated by European directives. And every country, it decides whether or not to grant such a right to the Cabinet of Ministers. We had adopted the Kugel Bill earlier, which addresses all licensing situations. That's why I'm proposing to support this amendment because it's for the Supreme Council's consideration, it's not regulated by any directives, and it's going to provide such safeguards against the over-politicization of the regulator that we have at last. I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers, and I don't understand why the Cabinet of Ministers gives their powers, which they have to acquire, in order to properly regulate markets and monitor, so that the regulator doesn't take over.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues who support the amendment of 142 people's deputies, Rybchin, rejected it, please vote. Please vote. [[12:11:18]] For 106 The decision is not made. 145th, Belkova. Don't insist. 146th, Babak. Don't insist. 150th, Lensky. Don't insist. 154th. Lensky. Don't insist. 155th, Dove. Don't insist. 160th, Lensky. Don't insist. 173rd, Martovitchki. Don't insist. 176th, Rybchin. Don't insist. 178th, Rybchin. Don't insist. 181, Drevyanko. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. 182nd, Levechenko. Don't insist. 183rd, Ephimov. Don't insist. 184th, Podlisecki. Don't insist. 184th, insist, Podlisecki, 184th. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u138	Dear National Deputies! We're in the hall today very much, I think every faction has come up with a criticism wagon for today's composition of the regulator. Today’s composition of the regulator, who made all his infamous decisions, ended up in the pockets of each consumer. So actually, with the support of this right, we can achieve the full rotation of all the members of the commission, and in six months, we'll have a new composition of the regulator. So I urge everyone to support those who are in pain for economically sound and fair tariffs, to support the bill and vote, and to start for a new independent commission, a new independent regulator. We're voting for it, and we're actually going to show everyone who's behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u139	184 Amendment, Podlisecki. Whoever supports this amendment that the committee has rejected, please vote. 184th. Please vote. [[12:13:40]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. 185th, Rybchin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u140	Rybchin, Fatherland. "Paternity" suggests doing the same thing -- the full rotation of this composition of NCRE, which is completely discredited itself. But not in six months, but in three months. As soon as possible, it is necessary to rotate so that the controller becomes the regulator that is in all countries of Europe. Balance the interests of simple consumers, not just to suit the oligaric interests, to give higher tariffs and to purchase equipment, and to make corrupt devices, and to raise tariffs. And full responsibility lies with this regulator, personally with Mr. Wolf. Which first says that Rotterdam Plus tariffs don't need to be, and then they radically change their beliefs, despite any criticism. That's why the regulator's current rotation should be complete in three months, as suggested by the Fatherland faction. Please vote everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to the vote. We're coming up with the latest amendments, where we're dealing with one of the most controversial issues that we haven't been allowed to adopt legislation in July. So I'm asking everyone to be there, come in and get ready for the vote. I'm going to put every right you want to put to the vote. So 185th People's Deputy Rybchin. Who supports 185 amendments to the People's Deputy Rybkin, which the Committee has rejected, please vote. Please vote. [[12:15:33]] For-129 The decision is not taken. 186th, Belkova doesn't insist. 187th. Please, Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u142	186 is a repetition of 184. But in conjunction with the authorship of Olga Belkova, and Alona Babak, and Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky. It's actually this right that also applies to full rotation for six months, which gives each member of the regulator the right to take part in the appointment contest and be reappointed again and again to become a member of the regulator, but if it meets the professional requirements, to the criteria required. And this is actually this scandalous amendment, which yesterday was completely bypassed by the standards and historical rules of work on the committee, was removed in the "Variance" and in the discussion on the committee that was supported before and then canceled yesterday. So I would still like to restore it in the way it was, because yesterday it was in the committee's office for lunch, and only at dinner it was rejected again. So I suggest we all vote yes and make a full rotation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the 186 national deputy of Podlisecki, who was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. 186, please vote. [[12:17:22]] For-144 The decision is not taken. 189th, Sold, doesn't insist. 190, Sold, not insisting. 193, Sold, not insisted. Colleagues, we're going into the hall, we're about to make a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall. 196, Sold, not insisting. 201th, Sold, doesn't insist. 202 doesn't insist. Colleagues, we're finishing up. 207, not necessarily. 210th, Sold, doesn't insist. 211, Sold, doesn't insist. 215th, Sold, doesn't insist. 218th, Sold, doesn't insist. And so, colleagues, we're closing the discussion. 229th, Sold, doesn't insist. 233, Sold and 234, Sold, doesn't insist. 242th, Martovici, accounted for. Twenty-five, no insistence. Colleagues! 45th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, two more corrections, 43rd and 45th, colleagues. Two fixes, that's all! And we're closing the discussion. 43rd, Drevijanko and 45th, Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we now have the President's NCREKP, and we are now coming to the conclusion that we can make a reform in the field and in the commission, the National Commission on Tariffs and Municipal Services, but again we are getting another NCREKP of the President's name. We now have the last chance to vote in favour of my amendment, to make this commission, the formation of this commission, depend solely on the Supreme Council, and so that the members of the High Council can choose by 300 votes and make 300 votes. Only this will enable you to be an independent, truly independent member of this commission. All the other options, the ones we've just talked about in the discussion of this bill, will give us the opportunity to get an update, and actually the same commission of President Prashenko's name. So please support this amendment and give us a chance to create a really independent commission if we want to make this reform, not just talk about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u145	Thank you. 141 revisions, right? 243rd. Who supports the 243 amendment of the National Deputy, who was rejected by the Committee, please vote. [[12:19:55]] For-103 The decision is not taken. And 141th. 241th, right? 245th, Rybchin, this is the last amendment, and we're moving on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please, Mr. Rybchin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the ambitions of the President's Administration, the corrupt interests of certain oligarchs, have been a hindrance to the adoption of a really good bill. Because we've spent more time beating down the leadership of this corrupt authority that is now, and making a really transparent regulator, as we promised our European colleagues, for which they promised us 600 million euros in macro-financial assistance, as all the ambassadors said. We support the idea of an independent controller, but unfortunately, Ukraine loses its chance to create this controller. Because when you hold authority, when you hold office, and we've seen in this room, how you've already held office as the government's past leadership, and now you're holding office as the current leadership of the NCREKP, unfortunately, the cosmetic good things in this bill, the good things that were, they were overturned by this vote and this, by this struggle for one person. I urge you not to vote for the bill if there is no complete rotation. It's a principle thing for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u147	Are you insisting on the 245th vote? No, it's not. Colleagues, we're done talking about it, it's almost 250 rights. During those talks, we were adjusted to certain processes that the committee agreed on as a compromise. And I have great fear that we may not make the final decision. Colleagues, I'd like the committee to explain to us how to act in this situation and I invite you to speak now. Colleagues, head of the Dombrowski Committee. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it very clear, because, without supporting my number 32 issue, we have returned to the formation of a nomination committee in the format of five members from the Supreme Council, which is, in my view and in the view of many national deputies, a gross violation of any institutional balance of power. So I demand and I suggest we go back to two alternate lines: 31st, or Lviv Podlisecki, where formula 1-3-1, or 32nd. Or vote on one and the other so that we can vote on the regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u149	My colleagues, I can see how tense the situation is on this issue, but I have a very simple situation. It's easier to put it all down now, to break it down, to throw it away. But everyone who is in foreign delegations, everyone who meets our European partners, knows and understands the great expectations of the bill. I, with your permission, will seek compromise here in the hall. I'll give the factions a word. Please, Wojcietzka. Turn on the microphone, one minute. But we have to compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u150	Undoubtedly, we have to find a compromise, and this compromise was found in the committee's version, which existed and was approved of the disgraceful fraud that took place yesterday at the PEC Committee, when in the evening, under the darkness very suddenly in the "Variance" section, there was a question of reviewing that decision after the zero rotation, which was jointly adopted and unreservedly supported by all the representatives of large factions, among other things, during the vote on the committee. That's why we're willing to compromise, but we're not ready when our colleagues are in this very, very harsh and unattractive parliamentary way of taking and abandoning us. Let's go back to compromise, but a new rotation, full rotation. Don't throw people away.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u151	Colleagues, I'm asking you, just to say, to make suggestions, to offer what we can now do. If a one-off proposal is not a compromise, it's an offer to step down. Please. I understand. I'll give you my word. I'll give you my word, colleagues who will. I say one thing, if we don't have the votes of the largest faction right now, it won't be voted out. Why I'm saying, let's make suggestions on how to make a decision that's going to be supported, not just failed. Please, Oleg Lazko. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u152	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. The Radical Party supports the idea of creating an independent governor of the National Commission for the regulation of the utility market. Because in the warehouse where there is a commission today, it is an addictive body whose activity affects tariff hikes and as a result of the looting of Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, that bill is in the form that it now takes into account the rejected amendments, it doesn't create an independent regulator, we're going to get the same eggs, just on the other hand, as they say in the people. We therefore propose to support that law, which will allow for the real creation of an independent president, government, parliament of a commission, where professional people will work, decisions that will not be corrupt, decisions that will make them radically lower tariffs, make them fair, marketable and acceptable to Ukrainian citizens. In this case, we are ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, while I've only heard one offer of compromise, it's going back to 32 and we can provide the voices of the greatest faction. What other suggestions are there in the hall? Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you with such an offer. Now we've talked about how much we don't all love Mr. Wolf, well, Mr. Wolfe, it turns out that you've been able to raise everyone to such a great deal of emotion. At the same time, there really was a compromise version that was in place yesterday. According to the faction's insistence, she was put on confirmation, and I'm the author of one of those amendments. I'd like to propose now to gather with the faction leaders to discuss the compromise that is possible today. I'm officially informing you that as long as this bill doesn't go back to the committee, that's exactly the way it's going to go back. He's technically imperfect. Today, many warnings have been made, some of which are important, some of which are somewhat manipulative. I promised my head not to comment on every issue because I didn't want to balance it. But today’s decision, it has been fundamental in the last ten years. I'll remind you, if we don't vote today, we'll tell you, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u155	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u156	We'll tell Mr. Wolf and his two years of experience that he's spent all those people here today who call themselves famous politicians. I very much ask you to give a positive signal to the market, to all those who plan to invest money in gas and electricity markets and have a responsibility to consumers in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u157	Yes, colleagues. Oleg Berezuk, Timoshenko again. In a minute, please, Berezuk, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u158	Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble colleagues! Now the people in this room are behind an independent regulator. What was done last night was destroyed by one independent operator. The state cannot suffer because of one man! So now what happened in the hall, we brought this bill to a kind of compromise. And that's why I'm proposing to put him to the vote. Those who won't vote for it are those people who are not speaking for the people in Ukraine, but for one person who is ruining all the balance of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u159	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u160	I think that, in principle, Ukrainian citizens have already imposed on their teeth the word reform, change, and so forth. Why? Because reform actually replaces either the increase in corruption, or the increase in the power of the President, or other things associated with the stability of the old system. The National Regulator Act, which is independent of any authority, was now to be passed in this room. What's going on now is not only making this body more dependent on power, it's dependent on a particular president of our state, from Dustenk. Because he also leaves behind the head of this controller, who has a simple pocket. And for everything that's done with the tariffs, it's not just Yacenouk and Groissman, it's Prashenko and his puppet Wolf. Now this system is being preserved, don't do any propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, pay attention! Now I give the floor to the head of the committee, he hears all the thoughts, he makes a proposal. Because I'm going to emphasize the important thing for all of my colleagues: who wants us to just set up and crash is the wrong way, we need to look for a format so that we can make a decision. And I'm going to try my best to make a decision. Dombrowski, please offer us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I would like to clarify once again one of the problematic positions that now divides us, which prevents us from going to a positive vote on this very important bill. This is not about the members of the NCRE, it is about a nomination commission that should be made up of five people. The proposal that today is the basis of a law that we have not supported, but which is legitimate, that five members of the nomination commission should be issued by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and only. The proposal of Lviv Podlisecki, which of the 5 members of the nomination commission should be one of the Presidents, three of them from the Supreme Council, one from the Ministry of Energy from the Ukrainian Government, i.e. formula 1-3-1. My proposal, supported by very many national deputies: two from the President, two from the Supreme Council, one from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u163	Please, 30 seconds. Tell me, the 131st Amendment of Podlisecki, can it be considered compromised? 131st?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u164	My colleagues, it's very simple. If there are voices, they are, if there are none, they are not. I'll put the 31st. Don't bet, he refuses. Then. Society, attention! I propose the next algorithm for action. Attention! All right, they mentioned it. Teenager, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u165	So I'm going to say what we demanded and what compromise we've reached. We agreed last time, and there was such a deal last night and such a common compromise that we all stand for the full rotation and change of all the members of the commission, including the heads, for six months. Therefore, we support Mr. Dombrovsky's number 32, which provides, forms a nomination commission in the form of 2 – from the President, 2 from the Supreme Council, and 1 from the Cabinet. At the same time, by introducing transparent mechanisms for the work of the commission. And it was completely compromised and balanced. I'll tell you more. We predicted that active members of the regulator could go to the nomination committee. And I'll be honest with you, the only person who can't go to the contest is Mr. Wolf. And actually this is the whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u166	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u167	And actually, this whole fight is happening just like it is for one person. Therefore, we need to determine who we stand for. So I propose to vote for the full rotation, the amendment number 184, which is mine, or 186, which is the right of three people (this is Belkova, Babak, mine) and to make a full rotation, and then to go back to the 32rd Amendment of Mr. Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, let's calm down. We have a very simple situation. If there are voices, there are, if there are no voices, there are no voices. I'll put a proposal on the committee head to return to 32. If there are no votes, we move on to making a decision. That's how I got the offer? Colleagues, please. Please, Mrs. Olu, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u169	No, it's not. As I understand it, let me announce the amendment that was proposed, and I'm still waiting for a reaction from the factions. The Self-Help faction proposes to move first to the zero-rotation vote, number 186 collective. Then, if she's successful, let's go to the 32nd. Do all factions agree to such an offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u170	Colleagues, I'm going to put both proposals to the vote. Which of them will pass, and will pass. So, pay attention! All right, we're done here! I'll bet you 186 again. Anyone who supports the return to amendment 186, please vote, please. [[12:35:24]] For 264 Next. I urge you to go back to number 32. Who supports the return to the 32rd, please vote, colleagues. [[12:35:47.]] For 253 We're back, we've got two papers to discuss, colleagues. Let's exchange thoughts, and I'm asking you here and head of the committee. Can we vote? We can. Dear colleagues, I'm voting, we're back and we're two votes. I'm voting on the National Commission Act that executes states. Right, right, right. 186. Who Supports Amendment 186. Come on. No, stop, stop, stop! Attention! Head of the committee, can I put them together or not? No, it's not. Who supports Amendment 186, please vote. Who supports Amendment 186, please vote. Please vote who supports Amendment 186. [[12:37:00]] For 217 Not accepted. Who supports Amendment 32, please vote. Who supports Amendment 32, please vote. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. [[12:37:22]] For 232 Supported, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft National Commission Act, which makes state regulation in the field of energy and utilities (number 2966-thank you) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, this is an important reform, colleagues, please vote. Please vote. Please support an important European reform. [[12:37:55]] For the 250. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to your colleagues. And I declare a break under the Rules until 13.10. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, 13:10, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, can we get back to work? Then please, I don't see a lot of deputies. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that the work is about to begin. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have Aysha Omarov, daughter of one of the leaders of the Crimean Tatar nation, deputy head of Majlis, who is persecuted by the occupying administration. Aisha Omarov and his father are fighting for the rights of Crimean Tatars and for the release of Ukrainian prisoners who have been sentenced to play as a result of the annexation of Crimea. Dear colleagues, let us express our support and respect for this brave girl. Dear colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you. We wish you success. And we are convinced, Crimea, Ukraine, we will regain our control of Crimea, and the Crimean Tatars will live on their land. Victory for us! Hello. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question. When we're in the previous session, you might recall, we've changed the boundaries of the areas, the boundaries of the areas in Donetsk, Lugansk areas, and there's been a technical error in one of the regulations. This is in the Order to Eliminate Disagreements in the Text of the Supreme Council Order of Ukraine on Changes in the Administrative and Territorial System of the Donetsk Region, the Change from the Setting of the Borders of the City of Bahmut and the Bahmut Region of the Donetsk Region (No. 4930). It does not require a special vote to be included in the agenda of the session and the meeting. There was only a technicality where the number was simply wrong. And I wanted to ask my colleagues if we could now vote it out, put it up for consideration so that the boundaries could be adjusted so that people could get pensions and children could go to school and have a full right to education. I would stress that it does not need to be included in the agenda of the day session. No objections in the hall, colleagues? It will be very brief to consider. I'm the only one who has to report it. Gerasimov. Colleagues, colleagues, look what I'm careful of, this decision is very simple, but I'm afraid we may not get enough votes. Colleagues, I'm going to ask Fedoruk to speak now. I'll read you the point of that question. On 8 September 2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a general decision on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Donetsk Region: the change and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Bahmut and the Bahmut region of the Donetsk Region. There are two proposals for the settlement of disagreements. If there's no objection, I'll put these proposals to the vote. And I would ask the committee to provide an explanation for this bill. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, we voted on these two rulings in the Donetsk region last week in the villages that were in the Syrian zone. There was a technical error in the transfer of land from the Donetsk administration. And this technical error needs to be corrected. The committee considered the matter yesterday at the meeting, voted, and asked the Supreme Council to make these, purely technical clarifications. It's about the number of square miles. Oh, it's about the number of hectares passed from one territory to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u173	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm going to ask you one more time whether to put him on the stand or wait for the votes to come. Because I'm afraid we may not have enough votes. Let's get together on some point, then I'll ask. All right, colleagues? I'm just warning you, it's a technical question, maybe there's no voices. We've already discussed it, then I'll put it on the table. Dear colleagues, we continue our block of fuel-energy issues. The next bill is 3617 and 3849. The author of the bill, Lopushanski Andry Jaroslavovich, asked for a transfer, a transfer, after lunch. This is the right of the author, the national MP. And so we move on to 4334: the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Heat Act on Promoting Heat Energy Production from Alternative Sources of Energy. And, Your Honor, I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. A lot of important questions, and when we get into full procedure, we just won't be able to deal with them. Colleagues, 4334, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please, 4334, summary procedure. Can I have your back, please? [[13:21:28]] For-144 We didn't make it, five votes. I'll do it again. Please come into the hall, please take your jobs, colleagues. Please take up jobs, or we'll go into a long procedure and it'll be the only question we can consider by lunch. Please prepare for the vote. And once again, I'm asking for 4334 to review the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, summary procedure, please vote, vote. [[13:22:19]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you sincerely for the very, perhaps difficult emotional but constructive discussion that took place in this room and for the vote that we have received as a result of two very important bills. But at the same time, I would like to point out that Bill 4334, in large numbers, is about the energy security of the state and the Ukrainian energy security vector of that state on the possibilities of providing heat to the population. I'm asking you to show me a slide. Please note on the slide that over the last two years in Ukraine, gas consumption in the budget has decreased by more than 7.5 billion cubic metres. More than 1.2 gigawatts have also been installed in the last two years. It's a new equipment, it's a new heat generation that doesn't work on gas. I'd like to draw your attention to the gas balance we have today in Ukraine. If we take the 15th year, we've roughly consumed 35 billion meters of cubic gas, 20 billion of which is our own production, and 15 is the gas that we're buying today in the European Union. This is the gas that we pay you for the currency that affects the currency market. And we must, as a national strategic policy, the issue of energy security, reduce the imports of natural gas that we buy in Ukraine. How can we do that? The first way is to implement at a very fast rate all the tools with energy efficiency. And the figure that we're seeing -- seven and a half billion gas in the last two years -- is the energy efficiency tools that have been launched. And secondly, it's a question of gas separation technology. When, in order to produce the heat calorie consumed today by consumers in large, medium and small cities, we produced, not from European or Russian gas, but from Ukrainian biofuels. This allows us to launch a very large innovative technological service market (on) in our country. What does this law do? It obliges or enables the NCRE to transfer tariffs to local governments from an independent regulator. That's what today, literally a few minutes ago, was discussed in this room. So we're going through decentralization and we're allowing local self-government authorities to make this decision themselves. But the main thing, the Ukrainian heat calorie that we're producing from Ukrainian equipment, from Ukrainian biofuels, is we're comparing it to the gas calorie from the import calorie, and we're allowing it to set a tariff of 90 percent of that tariff on thermal energy that we have today. At the same time, I would like to stress that this bill has also been developed in a very broad cooperation with Dergenergo efficiencies, with our European partners. It is based on the best European experience, especially in European countries. We have received support and confirmation from many international institutions. And I'm asking you to support in the first reading so that, between the first and second readings, you can undo it and have another very powerful source to ensure the energy security of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u175	Thank you, Alexander Georgievich. I'm asking you to do a two-in-pro, two-again. Please. Solarar Vladimir Miranovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u177	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, important Bill 4334 to stimulate the production of heat from renewable energy sources. Why is this important? First of all, the reporter correctly said that right now we have a heat produced from gas that is much more expensive than most imported gas is at a much higher cost than the heat generation produced from renewable energy sources. This is unacceptable from the point of view that we should stimulate, in the first place, our commitments to the European Union, we should stimulate the production of energy produced from renewable sources. The law establishes, obliges the commission to set 90 percent of the tariff for the heat generation produced from renewable energy sources, which will enable it to compete with this type of energy in the market. And that's going to make it possible to develop the industry. An important law in terms of diversification of energy sources, an important law in terms of maintaining renewable energy sources and also our energy dependency. Because we're going to buy less imported gas, we're going to be able to develop a small generation at the municipal level. So please support it, the People's Front faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u179	A subset, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a few of the basic things in this bill. That's the first one. We have today a tariff on heat supplies, which takes place on the main combustion of gas, is approved by local authorities, up to 20,000 gigacalories. And just higher, or huge manufacturers and huge boilers, they go to the NCRE level. According to alternative sources of energy, all tariffs are approved by the NCRE. And that's actually a nonsensus, because if you want to make a small boiler that's going to heat up alternative sources of electricity. Energy, such as some kind of hospital or garden, should you go to the NCRE and receive a tariff. In most cases, unfortunately, these tariffs are accepted in a corrupt way enough, and there are major abuses. So we have to get to the level of local authorities and align at least with the principles and approaches of how. The second question. It's very difficult to claim investment and the entire industry that is mega-important to Ukraine, because it's investment in the field of alternative sources of energy in heating that we can move away from consumption of gas. And it's hard to expect investment if we don't have transparency in approaches. And only the introduction of a gas tariff connection, with the possibility of an economy for consumers, can we do that. I urge everyone to vote in the first reading, but to work on the second reading, because there are a lot of comments. If the boilerhouse is in a city where there are no gas boilers that cannot be attached to it, there is a question. There are other questions that we are willing to work on for a second reading. So please vote, the Self-Help faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u181	Liniko Dmitry Volodymyrovich. He gives the word Oleg Valeriovich Lyashka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u182	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I'm once again drawing your attention to the subject of tariffs. Get down on the ground. Today, as a result of the government's policy, the NCREKP, which you voted for and left behind the same warehouse that is currently robbing Ukrainians and going on, at least six months of looting, we have absolutely no raise for most citizens. You're all having fun today, and you're not paying attention to it because people haven't gotten a payment with real numbers of the heat used. It's nonsense, it's a disgrace, it's totally unacceptable in any civilized country the thing where a person has to work, all his wages spent on tariffs. When we're in the government, the Prime Minister will reassure us that we'll all pay housing subsidies. You don't have to twist your head. Subsidies don't pay Ukrainians. Subsidies, and in fact, taxpayers’ costs are paid to oligarchs, owners of heat utility, and Ukrainians do not receive a penny of money. Instead, we see in the budget for the following year over 50 billion dollars for so-called subsidies, and in fact for the enrichment of the oligarchs, and less than a billion dollars for energy-generating. What does that mean? That we can preserve completely inefficient housing and utilities, and we're allowing the oligarchs to continue robbing Ukrainians. And on every side. On the one hand, because of high tariffs and prices for utilities, on the other hand, because of so - called subsidies, and in fact, when the budget costs of taxpayers are stolen and charged with the pocket of oligarchs. When will you finally stop this shameful, lying politics, corruption in broad daylight? That is why I demand that Parliament consider our bills, which will allow the tariffs to be reduced for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u183	Thank you. Chicken Maxim Pavlovich, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u184	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Should we vote in favour of this bill? Not only is it necessary but it is vital that we vote for him today. Because this bill is a real tool to rob the Ukrainian State of its gas dependence. This bill is a real mechanism for people to be able to afford tariffs. The government should support the production of heat from alternative, not gas, but alternative sources. Such sources in Ukraine are enough, and the future is beyond that. On this step, the whole of Europe, the whole civilized world, is on this path. That's why someone who doesn't support this bill leaves a gas problem in our country. There is a need to vote unanimously for him. That's the first one. Friends, I've asked myself repeatedly, why are the tariffs on heat different from each other in other cities? Why the heat tariffs in Kiev are cheaper than the heat tariffs in my native Dnipropetrovsk, Dnipri. Friends, that's why we have to give tax incentives today to invest in alternative solid fuel boilers. To use the energy of the sun, the energy of the water, the energy of the earth, these wealth in Ukraine enough. Let's all vote yes, leave behind the gas dependency on Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. No, Fatherland hasn't taken the floor yet, either Rybchin or Odarchenko. Please. I understand. Who's speaking from Fatherland? Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u186	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction. The Fatherland faction always supports the development of alternative sources of energy, and we voted for the Zaporezka Climate Agreement, and we see in this the future of Ukraine, to give up Russian gas, to give up coal, and to develop alternative sources of energy. In our faction, there was a discussion about this bill, which is related, first, to the coefficient that we give. 0.9 coefficient is maybe too much in this case. And we studied experience. For example, the coefficient in Lithuania is 0.5. That is, the tariffs that they have set today are so large that people cannot pay them, and it is the coefficient that must be discussed under these tariffs. And the second issue is ecology. Deforestation. We don't have a strategic plan for how much this is going to be done. So this bill needs to be balanced with the second reading so that we don't hurt. But the "Fatherland" faction will always support the laws that are linked to the development of renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. All right, I give my word, colleagues, I give my word. First Head, one minute, then Melniczuk, one minute. Turn on your head.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u188	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, this bill is really useful and necessary. And in general, reducing dependence on gas, and going through alternative sources of energy, that's essentially going to save money in the budget, and, in fact, that's going to be necessary for the Ukrainian economy. But I would like to point out that today, on such an important day, we have considered many of the laws related to electricity, and I would like to point out that you will also lay down our laws that are proposed by Freedom. Because today, the oligarchs find themselves lounging on utility bills, including electricity, when they're made for cash, but in private, when they buy the same olenergo, they're virtually getting shelled up and ripped off by billions of dollars from the pockets of the Ukrainian people. So I do propose that we lay down our laws that speak of the elimination of private monopolies, the return to state property of strategic enterprises, including the olenergo, which should belong to the people's owners, the Ukrainians, not the oligarchs who profit from human beings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u189	Melniczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u190	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. Independent Ukraine is an energy independent Ukraine. And the faster we break Ukraine's dependence on Russia's energy, the faster we start to develop. And it's the development of alternative energy that needs to be a priority in our energy sector. And we have to do everything between the first and the second readings, so that the investors who invest in the sector, that's what they do. That conditions would be conducive to the investor coming and that would become an engine for the development of the entire economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they've come from factions. Matthew was not the only one speaking. And after that, we're going to make a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Matvienkov, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u192	Matvienkov 57th District, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, alternative fuels, this is a topic that concerns everyone today, practically everyone, because tariffs have strangled our population, and no one today is able to pay for those tariffs, especially for thermal energy. But what I don't understand is that today we are discussing a specific programme for the development of alternative fuels. Seven billion bracelets are spent on this program. Nevertheless, 956 million pennies of Kyoto money are spent on the purchase of Toyota cars with hybrid engines for our police. No one would mind driving expensive, normal cars, ensuring safety and security, but this does not reduce the crime situation. But on the other hand, the same Belarusians at 18.5 megawatt built the power plant for the same kind of money, using "black bile" for alternative species, let's say, fuel, in the light. through light batteries. Why can't we really develop a government-wide programme that meets all the requirements of today? It's a campaign for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u193	One minute, Julia Timoshenko, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u194	Dear friends, I just want to draw your attention to the fact that, no doubt, alternative sources of energy support our entire faction. But there's one nuance here, because this bill provides that the heat produced from alternative sources must be at the price of a vacuum, at the rate of 0.9 of the value of the heat generated by the gas imported. Do you understand what this is about? That even if someone alternatively generates something heat, they have to put almost the same value as the heat produced from the gas. So this coefficient of 0.9 from the price of heat produced by gas has to be removed from this law. Because then it doesn't matter to people. And so I'm asking you to pay attention to that. Have the heat that generates heat from alternative sources set the price they want on the market instead of putting it in the same way that gas is produced today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking you to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. Please come into the hall, take a job, please, colleagues. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Heat Act on Promoting the Production of Heat Energy from Alternative Energy Sources (number 4334), on the basis of a committee proposal, based on a colleague, based on it. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, vote 4334 as a basis. Please vote, vote. [[13:42:12]] For 242 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. And, dear fellows, we have been approached by a demand from two factions, from a faction. The People's Front and the Radical Party of Oleg Láška requesting a recess. But they're ready to replace the break with a tribune. And I understand that Yuri Bereza will be speaking. And I'll give you three minutes, please, Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you now. I am now addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, and I am addressing the Hall. This hall heard quite a few promises when MPs promised to do something for the people. Everyone had good intentions. I now urge all my colleagues, first of all, to put today into the agenda and start to consider the Money Law of Yanukovich. I know that now that we don't vote, Janukovich in Russia will applaud those who don't vote for it. And that's why I call on my colleagues, and I'm giving you an address from the boys on the front. Listen, these 40 billion are needed to equip the Ukrainian army. This money has to be returned even so that no future official, no president, steals the money, feels unpunished. Let's do this, colleagues, friends, this law is primarily necessary for us, first of all, to show that we are the Ukrainian Parliament. And by no means will any president who, by stealing his country from another state, will still be punished and all the property of his and his officials will be returned to the people and to the state. Friends, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put this law in order of the day and start looking. I have a special appeal to the Euro-optimists, to Self-Help. Guys, if this law is so bad, where's your alternative? Why was there no alternative? So let's start the discussion, let's debate, let's start the discussion. But this is going to be work, this is going to be the work of the Ukrainian Parliament for the Ukrainian Army, for the Ukrainian State, for the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, the People's Front and the Radical Party, I want to inform you that we can't go into the debate right now, we can just put the agenda in order, without really the committee can't start the discussion. I can only set the agenda for the day session. I'm going to put the vote and we're going to watch it go on, but I can't put it into the agenda right now. Colleagues, I'm making a proposal, requiring two factions to put in order this week's draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that the State's income is secured by unwarranted assets 5142. Anyone who supports this proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the weekly session, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:46:45.]] For 207 It's not a decision you make, colleagues. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you now. I'll remind you of. Society, there'll be the next law, there you go. Colleagues, there'll be a next law, there'll be a statement. Now, please. Now there's a regulation that we started with, this is a regulation that applies to changes in the boundaries of areas. Let us exchange our thoughts on it if there is no objection that I have put it to the vote now. I remind you, Donetsk district, the borders of the area of Bahmutovka. Who wants it? She wants Burbak to come after her. Please. Please, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u198	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Head, I take very positive your initiative yesterday on publications in the Voice of Ukraine, a list of non-vote deputies who were not voting yesterday. So I'm sure right now, I'm asking you to give an assignment and publish tomorrow in the Voice of Ukraine a list of those deputies who didn't vote in favour of the Law on the Special Confiscation of Money Stolen by the Yanukovic regime. [[Applause]] These canned Russian people sitting here must answer to the people of Ukraine. They cover themselves with slogans, tear down the last shirt, but do nothing to return the money stolen by Yanukovic to the country’s budget. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, there are no more rulings to discuss. And I remind you, this is the Order to Eliminate Disagreements in the Text of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on Changes in the Administrative and Territorial System of the Donetsk Region, Change and Establish the Borders of the City of Bahmut and the Bahmutov region of the Donetsk Region. These are pensions and education for children, colleagues, 4930. She doesn't need to be placed in the order of the day session, I can put her in at any time. Now I see there are voices, I put it to a vote. So I would like to support, in general, Decree 4930 on changes, the establishment of boundaries between the city of Bahmut and the area of Bahmutov in the Donetsk region. 4930. Please vote, please support, colleagues, 4930. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. It's helping our citizens who are living and learning under Russian cities today. [[13:49:13]] For 253 Orders adopted in general. I ask that you prepare it immediately for signature to be transferred to the Donetsk district administration, immediately. The Supreme Council's apparatus, please. The next question we have is question 4618. 4618 is the next draft of the Act amending article 8 of the Law on Alternative Fuels. And, dear colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. 4618, summary procedure, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:50:04]] For-149 I'm going to put it again. I didn't vote one person. So 4618 is a reduced procedure, or we're going to have a full procedure. Please vote. [[13:50:28]] For-143 The decision is not made. Let's move on to the full procedure. And I'd like to invite you. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the matter, colleagues? Now there's a lot of opportunities to come forward, now there's going to be a long procedure. I'll give you my word as soon as I get there. I invite the head of the State Energy Efficiency and Energy Agency, Savchuk Sergey Dmitrovic, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u200	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I thank you for adopting the last very important patriotic bill. And now I would like to propose to you a draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Alternative Fuel Act. This bill is developed as part of the deregulation of economic activity. The purpose of the bill is to simplify the conditions of entrepreneurial activity in the field of the production of biological fuels. In particular, the U.S. Law on Alternative Fuels proposes to rule out the need for a national register of producers of liquid biological fuels and biogas. The bill also invalidates the requirement for the registration of these owners. Sustainable energy efficiency is already running its register of all alternative fuels published on the Agency’s website. When the applicant issues a certificate of fuel ownership for alternative Dergenergoefficiency, he writes this information about the fuel to this register, so we don't need a state registry. In doing so, the certificate of fuel ownership of the alternative is provided on a free basis. This bill, once again, is developed in the framework of deregulation, so I ask you to support proposals for acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 8 of the Law on Alternative Fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u201	Thank you. Please report, Deputy Chairman of the Dombrovsky Committee, Alexander Georgievich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u202	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! I want to point out that this is a very technical bill. Once again, a very technical bill. We have a Law that works with you on alternative fuels. Alternative types of fuel are bioethanol, it's biodiesel, it's biogas, it's biogas, it's those energy resources that we just voted with you to use in terms of gas deposition. But there's a formal procedure that's very bureaucratic, a state register and all the producers are forced to enter into this state register that has no de facto or de jure. So this is a bureaucratic norm that we just have to take technically out of this law and give biological fuel manufacturers a normal, peaceful, free of any, there, bureaucratic wires to work and produce energy resources in Ukraine. I ask very much on behalf of the committee to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u203	Thank you. Colleagues, look at the situation. We didn't vote for the cut, we have six minutes before the break. What if we're going to give those who want two pros -- two opposites of all factions? We're going in full order, aren't we? Okay. Then I ask you to record the factions for the performance. Please. It's a faction entry. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u204	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, when it comes to this law, it must certainly be supported, because it is indeed an example of deregulation and is beneficial. But I want to say that today it is very serious and significant in the history of Ukraine. Today, most of us in the Supreme Council voted in favour of laws that cost the population. If we look at even the last law that we voted before, there have been so many slogans that, as if we were hitting Putin with alternative sources of energy, we're going to beat it, because we're going to set tariffs on alternative sources of heat 90 percent. What kind of fight is this? This heat today costs a penny, because it's called an incinerator, it has to go from the tariff to the gas of 0.3 and 0.2. You set for the population today the value of the heat at the level of the import gas that this Wolf, who was here a few hours ago, was in this room, and you're looking forward to having some sort of European law. Today, 90 percent of the value of energy is a crime against the Ukrainian people. And I want you to stop hiding in camouflage, with some sort of slogan about you fighting for something. Today there is a conspiracy of oligarchs who defend their interests. I live in the Herson region and I'm elected as the national deputy major. Today, there is no forest, and forests are brutally destroyed because they are taken on cheap pellets that seem to burn to strike Putin. Today it's a pattern of stealing, cutting down forests, destroying ecology. And I ask you very much not to use any words of this kind about patriotism when you set a high price when you adopt lobbyist laws that relate to the excessive tariffs on the population by covering up these slogans. This law must be voted for because it is technical and regulates the technical side of deregulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u205	Yusuf's Aunt Leonidivna. He's giving the word to Oleg Lashkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u206	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The country's energy security is an important component of Ukraine's national security. And we can't achieve energy security just because of some point change before some law. It has to be clear, clear to society and to the world, state policy is aimed at achieving the country's energy security. Is there such a policy in today’s authorities? No, there is no such policy. On the contrary, the policy pursued by today's government and today's parliamentary majority is a policy of increasing energy dependence and pronouncing eternal slavery. Because when we're told that we're going to get less, 300 days we don't get Russian gas and we're getting import gas and it's energy dependency, it's not true. Because it's only going to be energy dependency if we don't get both Russian and import gas, and we're going to have enough of our own gas for housing and utilities and industry needs. Recently, when the issue of the adoption of the NCRECR Law was discussed, the reporters reported that we are 7 billion cubic meters less consumed of gas. If you think it's energy efficiency, it's not energy efficiency, because it's less consumption, because people have nothing to pay for. And they move from their homes into doghouses and sit there in the cold because they can't pay for gas. What does the Radical Party propose to achieve the real independence of our home country? First, we think that the key is to create favourable investment conditions, because we will not develop new wells, we will not increase the production of our own gas unless we involve an investor in our own country. The investor must go to Ukraine with sacks of money, not elsewhere. For him to come here, there must be an independent court, a strong civil society, independent media, and non-profit law enforcement agencies. Is it today? None. Here's an answer for you if an investor comes here when he knows he's going to have to take and take the money he invested in developing the same wells. Next. We ask the government to lower the rent and set a zero wage rate for new wells, for people to walk, drill wells and more to extract their own oil and gas. We insist that the energy regulator, the National Commission on the regulation of the public services market, should be independent, only this is a key condition for protecting consumers' interests and business interests in the first place. When Nazcomisi is not dependent on power or monopolies. And finally, he mentioned a colleague over the woods. We are definitely against cancelling the moratorium on the exit of the forest. The forest must work for the Ukrainians and for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u207	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, please. Turn on the microphone, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u208	Mr. Head, thank you for taking the floor. I would like to say that the issue of the return of money stolen by the Yanukovic regime to the country's budget is a very resonant and important issue. We understand that there are political forces that are trying to do everything they can to make this issue go away, so that Janukovich's money can come back at the address, these are so-called friends of Yanukovich. But after consulting in the session room, I would like to make an offer during the evening session to re-vote the question of the inclusion of the bill in the agenda. We'll either start discussing it, discussing it, and I'm sure we'll find and consolidate the entire room, and we'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u209	Mustafa Najem, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, we have witnessed how this law on special confiscation has been tried by some hysterics through Parliament. And I'd like to finish. Thank you. I am glad that the government has finally heard what the normal, adequate people in this room have said, and I have passed a bill that has now received the Recommendation of the Council of Europe, and it does provide for civil procedures for the return of money, including those that Janukovic has taken. Including in this bill, I would like to emphasize for those who do not want to vote, that it provides that it only applies to civil servants. So I also suggest that we put this bill into the agenda and go through the first reading. Because right now it looks like Janukovitch's return money requires only "The People's Front" and some "The People's Front" hysterics. That's not true! That's what the whole room wants. In fact, the money has to be returned. And let's go back to putting this bill on the agenda, turn it on, and look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will give Melniczuk. Listen to me carefully. We're in a semi-crisis situation again, and so is the bill. I see that Front won't vote on it, although the bill is important and correct. Let's make this happen. At the request of both Mustafa Najem and the People's Front, I will place at 4:30 a.m. the agenda of the day. But I beg you, colleagues, to support this bill, colleagues. He cannot be held hostage to political discussions. Is there that kind of support? Mustafa, is there such support? I'll put it in, but I'm asking you to vote in favour of this law so we're a block in energy. Fuel power could have been finished. Please, Melniczuk, one minute, and Dombrowski, and let's go to the vote. Colleagues, look, I want to address those who are in favour of that bill. We'll discuss it for another 10 to 15 minutes, and we won't have any votes in the room. I have a request to support him as closely as possible. Now I give Melniczuk and then Dombrowski. Melniczuk, one minute, Dombrowski, one minute, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u212	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. We will certainly uphold this law because it is essentially technical. But in turn, the will of the people group is proposing to develop a state programme on alternative fuels and energy, because what was proposed by the government of Azarov is actually the last day. And we need to keep pace with time and meet all the investors in Europe and not just. So we will support and go to a free independent energy Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u213	Thank you. And the closing statement by Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich. One minute, please. It'll be necessary. I'll continue. Please, Gregory. Alexander Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, I would still like to return all of us to the day of energy, which is today in Parliament, because I think it's very right, very important. But in answer to some questions, I repeat, this is a technical bill on alternative fuels. And in answer to a very important national MP with regard to the criticism that I've been making, I can say, look, we have cities that are big, small, where municipal thermal energy breathes on the laden, where heat routes are leaky, where boilers are already working with a coefficient that doesn't meet any criteria. I support Oleg Light, we have to open this market to investors, enable them to build new technology lines. What must we do about it? So there's a tariff that makes it possible to get the investment back. In today’s system, with a 6 - percent return on investment in heat energy on biomass, it is almost 20 years. Please tell me, who will invest in Ukraine for 20 years in the upgrade of the core funds? And 90 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u215	Please, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u216	Ninety percent of what we just talked about or 0.9 is no more than 0.9, which is today a gas boiler of old, which has a 100 percent tariff, and if an investor comes, builds a new boiler, its tariff will not exceed 90 percent of the choice that it has today. This is an opportunity to give us a completely new opportunity to invest in municipal energy and to improve the heat and energy security of villages, cities and to enable people to live normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-22-m0.u217	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision-making process, colleagues. This is indeed a technical bill, there is no debate on it, there is general support, and only political debate on other issues can put pressure on our decision. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we take up jobs. You support, support? Colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Alternative Fuels (number 4618) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general, a colleague. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. 4618, we vote. [[14:08:14]] For 214 We didn't make it. Colleagues, let's wait. Please don't go outside. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I'll take a look at the vote. In fact, everyone supports the bill. All we have to do is concentrate. Colleagues, please, all of them? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you back, right? Can we? If it doesn't come back, I'll lay the groundwork, okay? One more time to return to this vote. If it doesn't work, it's on the ground. So whoever supports the return to debate 4618, please vote. Please support the return of 4618. Please vote, colleagues. [[14:09:25]] For 222 My colleagues, I'd like to explain: To put it on the ground, we have to go back first. So we have to go back anyway. Please return to vote, return 4618. Vote please, colleagues. We vote for the return of 4618. Then I'll put it on the ground. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:09:59]] For 230 230, we're back. Now I'm laying the groundwork as a compromise proposal, colleagues. Based on the base. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a bill amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Alternative Fuel Act (4618) on the basis. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Based on the base. Please be supportive. [[14:10:31]] For 231 Decision taken. I've just been putting in, no voices, friends. Colleagues, I'll take care of it. Now, notice, I'll put it all together. If there are no votes, it will only be accepted as a basis. Whoever supports the adoption of this bill as a whole, please vote. Please vote on who supports the whole. Please support me. [[14:11:12]] For 196 Well, that was obvious, there were no votes. So draft Law 4618 is accepted as a basis, colleagues, on the basis of acceptance. Congratulations on a very fruitful, important, serious job before lunch. According to the Rules, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council is closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00. Everyone's scheduled to arrive at the hall at 4:00. As promised, at 4:30 p.m. I will once again make the proposal of Mustafa Nyem to put the daily bill of Law 5142 into order. Colleagues, 4:00 p.m., see you later.
