ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. Dear colleagues, we're scheduled to begin consideration of housing issues at 4:00. But we haven't had time to consider literally a few laws on security and defence before lunch. Dear colleagues, they're not really complicated, they don't need much time. But I'm sure it'll be right for us to complete the security and defense block, and then move on to the housing and utilities. It will take us not more than 20 minutes because there are two bills for re-examination with proposals from the President of Ukraine and four second readings, where there are only one or two amendments. And that's why I'm going to the Committee on Housing and Utilities, so we're going to have to complete the National Security and Defence Block, and then we're going to move on to the Housing and Utilities block. Unfortunately, we had a very heated discussion before lunch, and we did not have a few drafts to consider. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration, and we're about to start our work. So I'm stressing to you that we're going to have two bills to re-examine with the President's proposals. According to the Rules, they have the following procedure: a reporter, a representative of the President, then a co-rapporteur, head of the committee, and answers questions for three minutes. So we're going to be able to go through these bills very briefly. And so I ask you to concentrate so that we can quickly complete the security and defence block and move on to the housing and utility block. It's a deal. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register. [[16:02:56]] 345 deputies registered. And we're starting our work. So, colleagues, we're going to go to those national security and defence bills that we have left behind. The next is a re-examination block with proposals from the President of Ukraine. This is the Act of Ukraine amending the Law on Military Duty and Military Service (number 4689). He does not need a special procedure; he is being considered on a predetermined procedure. And I invite you to the report of President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council Act of 12 July 2016 amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Obligation and Military Service (Registration No. 4689) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds. In accordance with the law that has come upon the signature, military personnel who have entered into contracts until the end of a special period and have served no less than 18 months, as well as military personnel who have served more than the contract terms of the term in more than 12 months, are entitled to terminate or terminate such contracts. Thus, some 57,000 military personnel, consisting of 28 percent of their authorized numbers, will be eligible for exemption from military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces at the same time. On September 26, 2016, a decree was signed by the President of Ukraine, according to which about 21,000 military personnel are expected to be released from the reserve, who are being drafted. The release from military service of such a large number of military personnel will result in a critical decline in the number of special forces in Ukraine and will have a negative impact on their resilience. At the same time, the current pace of the admission of Ukrainian citizens to military service, some 6,000 on a contract basis each month, will not be able to compensate, in the near future, for the number of freed military personnel. At the same time, most military personnel who will be hired for military service may not have a combat experience and an appropriate level of training that will require additional time and considerable financial resources for their acquisition. Given the need to ensure the proper level of defence of the state, to preserve the military capabilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations at a level that guarantees an adequate response to the threats to Ukraine's national security, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Act "To Change Ukraine's Law on Military Duty and Military Service" to be rejected. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues! 3 minutes of question to the reporter, please record. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u4	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. I must admit that the decision to reject this law is not popular and difficult. But in this case, we have to agree with the President of Ukraine's proposals, as the Commander-in-Chief, because the argument given in his statement matches reality, we have to have a powerful army of experienced military personnel, and we can't just release them all. That's why the Radical Party faction will support the President of Ukraine's proposal. At the same time, taking advantage of the opportunity under consideration of the law, I would like to address both the President and the government. An extremely important issue, increasing the security of the country, primarily the social protection of military personnel, members of their families, increasing the cost of salaries for military personnel, providing them with technology and equipment to make our Armed Forces powerful, strong and powerful.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u5	It was a question, it was actually more of a statement than a question and that's why I did. Yes, from Self-Help I give the word of Taras Shepherd, please, for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u6	I am addressing the representative of the President as the guarantor of the Constitution in Ukraine. We had adopted a law that entered into force on April 1, 2014, a law that was still being passed by the government of Azarov, which was still being adopted by the criminal Supreme Council, which was actually extending action during a special period, the rules that, at the beginning of a special period, those contracts continue until the end of a special period. I would like to stress once again on the date of entry into force of this bill, April 1, 2014. As a representative of the Supreme Council of the Guardian of the Constitution, please tell us, on what basis are the contracts that were entered into before the entry into force of this standard, the contracts that were entered into in 2010, 2011, 2012 and the duration of these contracts have expired? Because every student in the first law school will tell everyone that there is no law of retroactive force. So I ask you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u7	I'm going to say right now that the law that was proposed for the first reading, it was supported by the Ministry of Defense, was a good example of how to do these things. Sadly, however, during the second reading of the Law, amendments were made that unfortunately increased the number of military personnel who would be released from military service. And this has led to a critical decline in the state's resilience. I want to report that in the National Security and Defence Committee, we've discussed this at a committee meeting a new law that is going to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u8	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Thank you, Mr. Arthur, for the report and for your invitation to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to thank all the national MPs for having received much in the early hours of the day. These may not be laws that radically change the system of defence and security, but they are also important. But I was impressed that some of the MPs in the early part of the day had these statements, you know, in the yard, the military technician was standing and there was no military technician on the front. You know who made these statements, people who consciously or deliberately failed to fulfill their governmental obligation. People who have never voted in favour of the state defense order and the military budget. And again, these people are using this rostrum for demagogies, populism and outright lies. With regard to the law that we are considering, yes, such a situation occurred when the reporter of this rostrum went beyond the Rules and increased the categories of military personnel. I'm asking you to support the President's veto, which will clear up the situation. Under the Rules, we cannot now submit alternative bills, and we are literally from tomorrow, I am sure, along with the General Staff with the Ministry of Defence, with the President's Administration, we will work out that bill to resolve these issues. And now we just have to go through the technical part and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u10	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum for three minutes. Please record the question. Please have one question, Sergey Melniczuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u11	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. I want to ask you to answer on behalf of the President, on behalf of those people who actually forced the fighters to sign contracts by the end of the period, what do they do next, them, their families? Or they can wait as long as they are. There will be those on the slopes that then went first so that they would remain there to rot or kill them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u12	On behalf of the President, either the President himself or his representative in Parliament may speak. He answered that question. I ask the next time to listen more carefully to the President's response in Parliament, and I want to add from myself what I have already said: in the law where I was the author, including me, and representatives of all factions, there was a solution to this problem. Sadly, during the second reading, this, including my underwork, may have expanded the list of categories that fall under this law. As a result, the number of military personnel who can use this law is much greater, and the President has taken advantage of his constitutional veto. I want to say again, from tomorrow morning we're introducing a new law that closes these problems that you've raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u13	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. So the discussion is over. Colleagues, please take your jobs and I would like to point out that the committee's proposal to support the President of Ukraine's proposal and to reject the law. The committee promises to give a new bill tomorrow morning to resolve the problem. But actually, the committee can't bring it in until this bill is rejected, that's the position of the committee. But I'm going to put all of the proposals that are provided by the regulation, first by overcoming the President's veto, then by sending it to the committee for work. I'll put these proposals in this sequence if they don't pass the bill will be rejected. So please prepare for the vote. I am the first to put a vote on the proposal to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:15:06]] For-82 This proposal did not receive the required number of votes. Next, send him to the committee for work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:15:31]] For-149 Neither did this offer. So Bill 4689 is rejected. This opens the way for the committee to prepare a new bill for all authors. I hope that this time, we will be able to accept it quickly and effectively. Thank you, colleagues, for making the decision. The next is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the Social Protection of Military Workers and Members of Their Families, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (2406). The same procedure: two speeches and questions to the rapporteurs. And I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Marcenko Sergey Mihajlovich. I'm just going to ask you very briefly, if you don't mind, to report. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u14	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! When I report the President of Ukraine's proposals to the adopted Ukrainian law, I would like to inform you of the following. The Supreme Council Act, adopted on 18 July 2015, provides for the strengthening of the social protection of members of the military and their families and amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Status of Soldiers and Members of Their Families, on the Police and on the Fight against Terrorism. One-and-a-half times the amount of one-time cash assistance in the event of the death and death and disability of military personnel, military-bounds, reservists and its size: in the event of the death of 750 living minimums, for the first group - 375, for the second - 300, for the third - 225. It is also envisaged to extend the payment of one - time financial assistance to militia personnel at the designated scale during their direct involvement in an antiterrorist operation. I would like to point out that the prescribed law was returned by the President of Ukraine on 7 August 2015 with his proposals for reconsideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll also point out that the President's proposals are based on the figures and conditions of last year. In particular, the President of Ukraine noted that if this law became effective in 2015, the budget deficit in the past year would amount to 896 million dollars for 5 months. In connection with this President of Ukraine, it is proposed to amend the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to establish one-time financial assistance in the event of the death and death of military personnel of a fixed amount of 700,000 dollars, to amend the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2015 in order to cover the deficit at the expense of implementing the adopted law. At the same time, more than a year has passed since the adoption of the above - mentioned law by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During this period, there have been some legislative changes that have not been reflected in the laws and proposals of the President of Ukraine. First, the Ukrainian Police Act has been repealed. Secondly, there has been an increase in the cost of living for working persons, who are the basis for one-time aid from 1218 to 1450. At present, the size of the military’s one - time financial assistance is 725,000 dollars, which is higher than the President’s proposed rate. In addition, these payments will increase regularly. As a result, the need for changes to the 2015 State Budget has fallen. Instead, the implementation of the adopted law will require an increase in the budget for 2016 and the project for 2017. An annual additional need to implement the law, taking into account the President's proposals, over 400 million dollars. Some 660 million dollars have been edited by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. Taking into account the recent changes to the Ukrainian Budget Act 2016, which was further envisaged for the security sector of 7.1 billion dollars, the adoption of this law is considered irrelevant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, three minutes to ask. Please hold the recording, please. Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u16	Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction, Ternopil. Please give an explanation now that is clear and clear to everyone. We passed the law that the president was supposed to sign. The president brought him here with his offer. So you're actually throwing out your veto now. Is this another proposal from the President? The president made his proposal. What should the Supreme Council do now: support the President's proposal to overcome the veto, or make any other decision, or not vote at all? I want to remind you once again that this is about people who have given their lives for the country, about people who are giving their lives for the country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u17	In my report, I noted that more than a year had passed since that time. So my proposal to support the President's position is no longer relevant, but now all the sizes proposed by the President are no longer relevant, because they are already higher. They are bound to a minimum of living, which is now higher. More than a year has passed since the adoption of the law and the veto was done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u18	Thank you. Please, Papiev Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u19	Thank you. Mr. Reporter, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! You know, I'd like to get an answer out there to the reporter in general about the causes of the violation, first, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and the Constitution of Ukraine. And in general, explain to us this chronology of law review. Since September 2015, where was this law, where were the President's proposals? Why are we back in October 2016? What has been done with this law for one year? And one more thing. Please tell me in figures what size of living minimum for working persons today is set by the laws of Ukraine. What's the sum of 750 of this living minimum? And what's the difference between 700,000, what's being proposed, and what's going to happen today is that our citizens of Ukraine have been socially vulnerable for over a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u20	Thank you for asking. To date, the subsistence minimum of December 1, 2016 will be up to a thousand six hundred dollars. A gradual increase in living minimum is foreseen in the draft Budget Act 2017. At the same time, I want to point out that the changes that are being proposed are significantly increasing the payout. And the budget for 2017 should be balanced. So as the Ministry of Finance, we don't have the ability to fully anticipate the need for these costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u21	Thank you. Last question, Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u22	Please pass the word to Andrew Antonishtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u23	Please. Antonistak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u24	I have a question for a representative I don't respect at the Ministry of Finance. Did you hear yourself?Oh, my God! What numbers are you talking about?Oh, my God! 800 million a year for the dead, for the wounded, is that such a big figure, is that critical to the budget?Oh, my God! I understand that when Mrs. Jaresko was here, she never had any money! And this new minister doesn't have any money again?Oh, my God! Surrender! Go see what's going on in the hospital! Look how many top managers get! Maybe less stealing was needed? Oh, no?Oh, my God! And now essentially the offer. As a drafter of the bill, I ask the bill to be removed from consideration, sent for further work on the committee. With the people's deputies on the committee, we'll find an understanding. And let's put it in a new edition, where it's clearly stated -- 750 minimum wages. You're looking for money! You're the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for questions to be answered. I want to tell you, this is going to be an offer, one of the suggestions, to return it to the committee. It's important that we just gather enough deputies to get a positive vote. Thank you very much, Sergey Mikhailovich. The co-report now invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u26	I think it's hard to blame me for not lobbying the interests of the military, the military and industrial complex and the Armed Forces in general. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is about everyone, when we want to give something, we need to understand where to get it. And I want to tell you, over the course of the year, there have been tens of times in this room a bill on the recalculation of 40 billion dollars of money stolen by Yanukovic, a government budget with a subsequent distribution, including defense. And some of you who are now shouting for defence and security have pulled cards to protect these costs. My friends, we will strive to increase the social standards of military personnel and supply arms, regardless of your provocations of non-voting, and we will quietly resolve these issues. I support the previous speaker's proposal. Let's send it to our committee. I ask you to support this proposal, we will work on it within the existing budget and the next budget of the year we will put it into the room and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, three minutes to ask. Please register, according to the record, and not according to the raised hand, the word is given. Please press the button, write down the question, 3 minutes, to the reporter. There's no factions on this block, there's no factions on this block, there's only a question to the reporter. Abdullin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u28	Please pass the word Krulko to John.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u29	This question is deleted. Now the next one is Moses Igor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u30	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Mr. Chairman of the Committee, with this bill, unfortunately, everything is clear and we support it to be sent for further work. You're talking about people who break down the permanent vote and pay back Yanukovich's money and the defense order, and so forth. Would you not like the National Security and Defence Committee to contact law enforcement authorities to investigate where and why some national MPs are flying? Maybe it'll make sense. For example, yesterday morning a brilliant Sergey Melniczuk, a member of your committee, had breakfast with Oneshchenk, who was wanted at one of the hotels in Amsterdam. And now he's breaking up here, tearing up a calf and yelling at him for what he's capable of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u31	I want to say that the Ukrainian national deputies are accountable to the law, to their constituents and to their consciences. We don't have a moral and regulatory committee, we don't have ethics. On our committee, we deal with all the questions and the master you call no longer a member of our committee, thanks to your position. But you've raised a very topical subject, and I want to address everyone again. The MP's position is to vote or not to vote. And unfortunately, we have a position to speak one way and vote another. And it's a disease of all this Parliament. I'm afraid I talk about this a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, there will be a final question. I urge everyone to call to the hall, and in one minute, the vote will take place. Please, the final question of the River Andriy Alexanderovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u33	Please pass the word to Berezi Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u34	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear reporter! And don't you think that maybe we need to go to the Supreme Council Hall right now, and I'm calling on Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council to publish every single faction vote on those laws that now determine the country's ability to determine the social security of the military and not just. That's what's important. To date, show how all the patriots actually supported and supported everything we accepted in the Supreme Council at the expense of the Ukrainian Army. Because it's very easy to go to a talk show, talk a lot of beautiful and beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u35	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, please be done for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u36	Talking on TV, talking about love for the Ukrainian army, talking about a Ukrainian soldier. And when we come to the workplace, unfortunately, we don't have to be in this workplace first, and then the hand doesn't raise to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u37	Thank you. That was a question to me, so I'll answer you. Every vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is on the site, it's in open access, we have open "Council" and the results of every vote can be obtained through the "Council" system that there is. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion and we can move on to making decisions. I will, of course, make all the proposals and the President's veto, and the adoption in general, taking into account the President's proposals, but most of the speakers recommended that we return to the committee for work. In order to get a positive vote, we simply need to go back to our jobs and vote conscientiously. So I'm going to put it in this sequence: the first proposal for overcoming the veto, the second one for taking into account the President's proposals, and the third one for sending it to the committee for further work. Everyone, please enter the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm betting on the vote. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I am the first to propose to a committee to overcome the President's veto on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on raising the level of social protection of military personnel. (2406). Whoever supports the defeat of the President's veto, please vote. [[16:32:03]] For 113 113. The decision is not made. Second sentence: accept in general, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Although, I remind you that the third suggestion: to send it to the committee, it sounded from most of the speakers. But I have a second suggestion to make: to accept in general, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[16:32:40]] For 171 The decision is not made. And the final proposal that unites the entire room, which was spoken for by all the factions, is to be sent to the committee for work, colleagues. I ask you to prepare, I hope we will come to a positive outcome after this vote. So I'm putting a motion to vote, sending a bill to the committee to redraft the Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to increase the level of social protection of military personnel and their families (2406). Who supports this proposal, please vote, please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, support. [[16:33:34]] For 233 Decision taken. This is a common compromise offer, and I welcome this proposal. Colleagues, now I'm going to ask the same question that I asked for the break. We have four projects in the second reading, one or three revisions. I'm asking you very much right now, we're going to vote very briefly, because it doesn't provide for discussion, it's just the authors of the amendments. I ask you to concentrate so that we can get through them briefly. So the next block, the last block of national security and defence is the second-reading block. And I'm considering, first, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service on the release from military service of persons with disabled children I or II groups (heading 1488). And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Pashinsky to report. A representative of the committee of Winnick, please very briefly and in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, before the second reading to the committee, 15 proposals were made for this draft Ukrainian Act to amend the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service on the release from military service of persons who have children with disabilities, I or II groups. Of these 15 proposals, three were taken into account in full, six were taken into account in editorial terms, one in part, five were rejected. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in a second reading and in general, as drafted by the committee for second reading. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been prepared for the second reading of the bill without any notice, so in principle it is possible to vote, accept and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the amendments were taken into account except for five, I am each named. Fifth, the Ripper, or is he insisting? No, it doesn't. Six, Five? Don't insist. Eight, Papiev? Don't insist. The Ninth, Treyakov? Don't insist. And the 14th, Tretyakov, does not insist. So, colleagues, there's general support for this bill, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service on the release from military service of persons who have disabled children in custody of Group I or Group II, number 1448. All supported, I ask him to support the committee's proposal in the second reading and in general, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:36:39]] For 233 233 for. The law is passed. Welcome to the authors. The next one has only one amendment – this is the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service, number 2210. And I invite you to report to Mr. Winnick's committee, please. I'm asking you to do it in a very concise way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, this bill is designed to restore and train health - care officers in a mandatory manner in higher educational institutions. One proposal came to second reading and was rejected from the motives given in the comparative table. The principal legal administration is organized without notice. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u41	Thank you. So only one amendment was rejected. This is the national deputy of Gulyava. Does he insist? No, it doesn't. Dear colleagues, in fact, a bill that. You insist on putting her on confirmation. Perhaps you can talk to each other about it. Please, one minute after Oleg Lazko's first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u42	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to ask the reporter to clarify: On whose account will the students acquire this military knowledge? Because if it's on a personal basis, it's an extra cost. We insist on, by the way, the author of this. The co-author of the bill, we insist that this is done at the expense of the state. Since this is necessary, it is primarily for the state. And taking this opportunity to consider an important bill, I want to thank all the military doctors for their service, for their work of saving the lives of our military personnel. They want health and assurance that our faction and the Ukrainian Parliament will do everything in their power to support the military, to support the medical community in general, and to support our glorious Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u43	Thank you. Please give me a very short answer and let's go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please turn on Winniku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u44	An appropriate programme will be developed by the Ministry of Defence, which will be given to higher education institutions and will be issued by the Ministry of Defence, with a corresponding number of military medics, who will receive an appropriate medical education officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u45	Thank you. The discussion is over, and I am voting on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for students of senior medical pharmaceutical schools of military training under the programme for the preparation of mandatory medical officers) (number 2210a). At the suggestion of a committee in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:40:07]] For 223 I see we haven't made it. I'm going to put it back, I'm just calling for everyone to be very careful, colleagues, when voting for security and defence bills. Please come into the hall. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. I'm proposing to go back to the 2210a vote. Please support and please vote. And be careful. Please vote for the return of 2210a. Please. [[16:40:49]] For 233 The decision to return is made. And again, I'm putting draft Law 2210a on the committee's second reading and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues, 2210a in second reading and in general. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:41:17]] For 238. The law is passed. Hello! Colleagues, the next draft of the Law, there is no amendment, but nevertheless, I declare it. This is the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act "On State Protection of the Authorities of Ukraine and Officials" (2289a). The rapporteur is a representative of the National Security and Defence Committee, Mr. Vinnik. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u46	The draft for second reading, considered by the Committee on State Protection of State Authorities in Ukraine, grants the right to provide State protection to representatives of foreign states who visit Ukraine in the form of official delegations or visit Ukraine at the invitation of State authorities, namely, the content of the only amendment that has been taken into account, it is our colleagues from the Self-Help of Mr. Shepherd. The committee recommends that the second reading vote and, in general, the scientific expertise, the legal administration has no observations. Please accept in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, no amendment has been rejected, all the amendments have been taken into account, so all the proposals are fully agreed upon in this bill. And I'm putting it to a vote, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, draft Law 2289 at the suggestion of a second-reading committee and, in general, a colleague. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, please vote, please support. [[16:43:08]] For 230 Decision taken. Colleagues, the law is passed. Colleagues, the latest bill from the National Security and Defence Unit. Once again, I apologize to the committee and committees that prepared the housing block, the last bill, only 3 amendments, colleagues, that's two minutes. I'm asking you to concentrate. And I'm going to the last draft of the Security and Defence Bill, this is the draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the pension provision of individual categories of persons involved in the anti-terror operation (number 3252). And I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy to report to Dennis's Humane Leontiyevna, and I'm asking for a very brief report. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, Bill 3252 is being considered. We all supported it on a base in April, made 5 suggestions, two corrections counted, three rejected. This confers the right to receive early retirement from both age and age, and from women who were involved in hostilities in an antiterrorist operation. And granting the right to an early retirement in connection with the loss of a caregiver to family members of the deceased. I'd like you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u49	Thank you, colleagues. There are 3 amendments. 3rd People's Deputy Shuhevich. Is it insisting? Yes, he insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill applies to those involved in the fighting that took part in the anti-terrorist operation. The point is that all the participants in the fighting — in Yugoslavia, Iraq and so forth — have the right to retire early, while the participants of the ATO are deprived of it. I'm talking. Please, I'm going to make two adjustments right now, and I'm going to ask you to give it to me right away. I don't know, like, one question. That's why I'm talking to everyone, and I'm asking you not to spend. There's about 5 million of it, but it's only going to be about 25 years old when they're born out of a thousand, two thousand. in 1970. That's why it's happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u51	Please, 30 seconds, finish, Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u52	It's a possibility. That's why I'm asking you. I say I'm willing to withdraw my amendments if the room votes in favour. And secondly, if the hall doesn't vote, I'm going to have to register a bill that will abolish all of these, the right for everyone to retire early. Because otherwise, it cannot be that Ukrainian defenders have no right, and those who have driven, paid money, traveled to Kosovo, sorry! You can't do that. Thank you. I'm filming.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u53	Please, Sophia Leontievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u54	The amendments have been withdrawn, so we should not vote for them. Mr. Suhevich withdrew his amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u55	All right, Mr. Yuri made the amendments, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u57	And we've got one amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Does Mr. Yuri insist? Please turn on the microphone. Last amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u58	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Indeed, the right bill for the introduction of appropriate pension benefits for the participants in the anti-terrorist operation, essentially the Russian-Ukrainian war. But there is one thing. It is thus prescribed that as a result it will apply not only to participants in hostilities, but to all who have a shortcut, that they were in an anti-terrorism operation. And we know very well that, unfortunately, we have, especially at the beginning, but there is still so-called ATO tourism. When the prosecutors were different, the taxpayers, the militias, who didn't actually fight there, they just came to the warehouse, they came, they sat a little far away from the front. They have received appropriate help and are considered to be participants in the ATO. Accordingly, my amendment refers to the fact that these benefits apply specifically to ATO participants, not just to all those with the ATOs, including those tourists with prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, Sophia Leontievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u60	You know, my colleague, that the evidence that he is, this citizen is a part of an anti-terrorist operation, is given only when he was involved in a combat operation in areas where there was an anti-terrorist operation. So if we leave it that way, it's going to break this bill. And if you have evidence that individual citizens are being provided with evidence that they were ATOs, but they weren't involved in combat, that's another problem. This should be proved, proved, and deprived of such help. I propose to pass the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u61	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Whoever supports Amendment No.4 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please take part in the vote. It's a committee against it. [[16:49:20]] For 169 Correction not accepted. We've finished the discussion, colleagues. And I'm putting together an important social bill. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the pension provision of individual categories of persons participating in an anti-terror operation (No.3252). At the suggestion of the committee, in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues, 3252 as a whole. Vote, please. [[16:50:14]] For 237 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee! Colleagues, this was our last bill from the National Security and Defence Unit. Unfortunately, we had a 50 - minute review of this block. And it's only now that we're going to be able to move on to a block of construction and housing. And our next draft of the law (block of first reading) that the committee prepared, and the first bill is 3696. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the extension of the period of acceptance into operation of construction works built without permission to carry out construction works. And there's a proposal from the committee, because we've already taken up time with them to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, please vote. [[16:51:26]] For 186 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Codolu Alexander Mikhailovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, you have a very simple but very important bill, which concerns thousands of Ukrainian citizens: the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities concerning the continuation of the term "admission to the Exploitation of Construction Objects Built Without Permission to Perform Construction Works" (registration No. 3696). The issue of building amnesty by the Supreme Council of the Governing Council of the Governing Body was already under consideration last year. On January 13, 2015, we passed the same bill. But according to this law, the building amnesty was only effective until December 31, 2015. And taking into account the arrangements for such facilities to be used by the Ministry of Regional Development, it was approved only on April 24, 2015. And it's been published and actually started working since May 26, 2015. So the building amnesty actually worked for less than six months. It is clear that not all Ukrainian citizens have been able to use this norm and document their buildings in six months, and then they should pay fines. It should be noted that according to article 96 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the operation of construction objects related to objects I and II of complexities that are not accepted for use entails the imposition of a fine of 350 to 500 untaxed minimum citizens. Considering that construction amnesty has not worked since January 1, 2016, there is a need to continue at the legislative level the adoption of construction works that are not allowed to do construction work. Bill 3696 proposes to continue the construction amnesty until December 31, 2016. Considering that this year has already been 10 months, when this law is passed, it will once again be in effect for less than six months. After considering this bill on 16 March 2016, members of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u63	Let me finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u64	have decided to adopt this bill on the basis of an increase of up to two years in the operation of the law in furthering its second reading. However, given the urgency of resolving the problem, the committee reviewed the bill on 31 May 2016 and decided to recommend the adoption of Bill 3696 in the first reading and in general as a law, taking into account the extension of its term until 31 December 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u65	15 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u66	The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading, the Committee on Budget Issues does not object to the adoption of the bill. And this bill is expected today by citizens who are trying to build ownership of individual housing, garden, tax homes, farm buildings, dormitory buildings and buildings, I stress, between August 5, 1992 and March 12, 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to be able to look at all the drafts of this block. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we can call for compliance with the Rules and Order in the Hall, please. And according to this, we don't have a co-reporter, so I'm asking you to sign up for factions: two for, two against. Please. Please, from Peter Dustenka's Block, Maxim Savrasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u68	I give the word to Andreev Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u69	Please, the head of the Committee of Profiles, Dmitri Andreyevsky's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! It is a great request to support this clear, simple and vital bill. It is also a part of our citizens who, without waiting for help from the State, took responsibility and settled the housing issue. I am sure that this bill deserves to be supported and voted on as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u71	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u72	Igor Musiyczuk Radical Party of Oleg Lachka We support this bill and consider its adoption necessary now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u73	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, please, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u74	Alexander Longenkov, "The Opposition Block". Of course, the opposition bloc will support this important legislative initiative for millions of Ukrainian citizens. Since it is indeed a bill designed to satisfy the interests of citizens in the implementation of their individual data points, it is true that there are in fact arbitrary structures that have been implemented without permission to carry out construction work. But in any case, because the procedure is difficult enough to obtain, many citizens, of course, have begun to build and store their land at their own risk. This legislative initiative must, of course, be supported, but it must also be addressed in an integrated manner to facilitate the authorisation of construction works to such construction sites as the first and second categories of complexity. As a result of a long period of harmonization with the supervisory authorities, in particular with the authorities of self-government, with the State architectural and building authority, such cases are ongoing. Since this is not the first case of the ban on the entry into service of these self-built facilities, these dates have already been prolonged on several occasions. But in any case, we need to walk away from this practice by solving the problem in a number of ways. First, it is easier to obtain a permit for construction work. Since, if there is a permanent extension, there will simply be no discipline in this market, there will actually be chaotic constructions, even with regard to the first and second levels of complexity. I therefore call on everyone to support this legislative initiative as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u75	Thank you, thank you for the briefs, we really don't have much time. I invite you to speak to Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u76	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, the easiest law I've ever seen. Indeed, it is necessary to extend the time limit for the entry into service of buildings that are self - constructed. But what's the problem? I want to talk to a government official here who just doesn't listen. First. It's an information-explanatory work. The other one. We need to make it much easier for such buildings to be used. Third. Most of these houses, believe me, are in rural areas. Why? There's no money for project-based documentation, there's no money for putting an object into use, there's no money for registering such houses and getting an act, and so on. That's why people will live. So it's important for us that these bills go systematically, because we're going to keep shorting the deadlines, or continue the deadlines, but systematically this is not being resolved. And I'd like to say separately, we have a problem in the city of Kiev. If we do this all the time, then not the conscientious builders who have constructed the coastal lanes, they will make decisions through the courts, and they will continue to register the buildings. In this way they will legalize the construction or self - capture of the territory. So I would like to ask the vice-premier, Mr. Hennadia, to see the vice-premier so that we can approach the issues in a qualitative and systematic manner from the following year. And they didn't constantly shorten the deadlines or continue there, but they did a systemic job. And Hennadi himself, he doesn't hear, and he doesn't do, and that's where the vice-premier of these issues begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko has arrived for the session. Mr. Hennaday, thank you for your participation in the meeting, but the deputies are asked to listen to their requests. And we have our last self-help speech on this issue, a minute and then we go to the vote. Colleagues, in a minute, there will be a vote, please, Yegor Sobolev, one minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u78	I wanted to say not only the self-help position, but also the Supreme Council Committee against Corruption, we see corruption risks in this bill. According to his colleagues, the builders would either be tried or legally legalized by barbaric structures. We have a repeated manipulation of the complexity of the barrier, when real multi-story buildings are built for simple first and second levels of complexity. So I think it's going to be a hole, not a relief for people, but a hole for those who try to bypass the construction rules, who barbarically build our cities, and not just cities. The Anti-Corruption Committee is asking the Supreme Council not to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Since critical remarks have been made, please turn on the microphone for one minute. And let's move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u80	I'd like to point out, in general, that it's the active position of the deputies working on the profile committee that are co-authors: both Mr. Andriyevsky and Mr. Kodola, that we continue the term exactly. And we support, we continue the term for two years to take into account all the points that relate to the introduction of buildings. And that's what I think you know here, you can talk about corruption on the one hand, into exploitation that was self-constructed. But on the other hand, we know that today is not enough opportunities and time for people to really avoid those built objects, to avoid that corrupt influence, because they are today without documents, many and many questions arise. So that's why I supported this bill in the first reading, taking into account that it would continue for two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I would like to point out that this bill is just a one-year transfer. The committee offers it as a basis and as a whole, because there's no meaning to the discussion, it's just a transfer. Now I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote, and the room will be determined. This is just a one-year transfer. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm putting a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation, number 3696 as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis of 3696. Please. Please vote on the basis. Just on the ground, please support. [[17:04:22]] For 228 Decision taken. The next bill is the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing (number 4550). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me. [[17:05:00]] For-167 And I invite you to the report of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Zubko Hennady Grigorovovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for your attention and offer to consider amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on Building and Housing Development. The need for adoption of the bill is due time. You know, the second year in a row, since 2014, practically, all the funds that go in support of the construction sector go into the housing of our military personnel, our law enforcement officials, the border guards. But on the other hand, we have programs today, and we see that it's very small costs, but we can use more effectively to support those people who were involved in combat and participants in the ATO. And that is why we offer to make changes so that those who fall under the article under article 19 of the Veterans Law can receive 50 percent of the compensation for the purchase of housing. Similarly, we propose to increase the rate that is reimbursed to participants from 3 percent to 10 percent, because the market value of credit has increased, the interest rate is also higher today, and 10 percent of it would be fairer. But on the other hand, I would like to say that in the past. This year, there was a two-programme repayment, 16 and 24 million. And we're proposing changes to the procedure that will primarily allow these programs to be used by the participants in the ATO. We understand that this selection is going through the regions, but on the other hand among the 170,000 participants today, I think we can find those who can use these very state housing programs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u83	Thank you. Deputy head of the Sabashuk Committee, Peter Pavlovich, is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u84	Mr. Head, first of all, I would like to thank you on behalf of the Committee for the 70 minutes that you've given to our committee over a year and a half, and for a year and a year and a half, no representative of the construction sector has spoken, nor has any of the laws that have passed through the committee been considered. So thank you. Now by law. The Law of the Athenians wait a long time, and this law must be passed. There are conclusions from our committee on the need to adopt this law, there are conclusions from the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, a bill that meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. But I have a question for Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please listen. I have a question for you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, if this law were to be examined by the time the draft budget appeared in the Supreme Council, you might have a problem, but there is not a single single copy of the budget for the next year for the Youth Building Fund. So I think if we don't have a full fund, we're going to stand up, let's say it's a populist law that can't be passed. That's why I'm paying attention to it. Committee on Budgets. Our committee has called for three and a half billion dollars for this program, not only for the atoir, but also for the construction of young people, because without the budget, the law makes no sense. So I think that the law needs to be adopted, but it's very serious when it comes to budgeting, voting. Because question number one, this is question number two. That's why I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u85	Thank you. Please sign in two for two, two for against, please. Alona Babak, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u86	Dear National MPs, the Self-Help United faction will certainly support this bill. Why? Because it also combines the social protection mechanisms of those people to whom we are guilty are factual. We are the ones who are here now, and who are sitting in the trenches and on the front. But it is also a draft law that has market mechanisms that are also unified in one document. We're actually saying that the state is not going to give housing to people who are going to fall under the category of young families, but we're only giving 50 percent of the cost of the loan that we're going to take on housing. Plus we've already adapted this law with 3 percent that we've paid before, and we understand that for 3 percent of today's money is nowhere to be taken in bracelets, interest should be set at 10 percent. And actually, this law is exactly the optimal combination of social attitudes and market mechanisms. So, of course, we will support it, and we invite all of us to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u87	Taras Dmitrovitch's flint, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u88	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I would like to draw the attention of our colleagues to the fact that the adoption of this bill as a basis and, in general, in a new way, to the development of the building industry. In particular, there is a government fund for the promotion of young people’s construction. I want to say that in many areas of Ukraine, this program works, but mostly only on local budgets. So in the city of Mikolayeva a few months ago, houses for 96 apartments were put into service, thanks to the appearance of some 10 families of military personnel, thanks to the decision of the Mikolai District Council, they were able to obtain long - term loans. This, of course, greatly improved the situation in the region. In particular, however, the situation in Ukraine did not resolve. So, on the one hand, we have to go meet and support this bill. On the other hand, we need to review our attitude toward the State Fund. At the same time, the funds provided by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, could be used in the same way as long - term credits and military personnel and pedagogical workers and health workers. I think it's the right thing to do. We have to support our benefit categories. And I want to remind you again. Through the State Promotion Fund, we can get loans of 10 percent. Because of private banking structures, credit is no longer available. Let's not forget how many thousands of people "burned" on credit. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u89	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u90	Paul Kishkar. Please tell Neda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u91	Dear Head, honourable deputies! Dear Gennady Grigoryevich! It's a simple situation we always catch up with, isn't it? We always try to give money at a time when it's hard to spend. We seem to be doing the right thing, but we're doing it at a time when, unfortunately, we're not going to be able to send them to the right things. That's the first one. What you have to do. I support the head of the committee that this should be done in advance and announced. But I have a basic question. Please tell me we're helping ATO soldiers, we're helping the families of the dead. Tell me, please, when we finally remember the people who lost their blood, the housing of the fighting. Will you please tell me when we're gonna do this? When will we allow people to return to their families and return to their homes? They've actually forgotten about it. The residents of Ukraine live there on Donbassa, as in Zacarpatya, as in Central Ukraine, as in Kiev. Please very much ask: the Cabinet of Ministers, pay attention to this, after all, it is in your power. Gennady Grigoryevich, personally addressed you from all the residents of Donbass who lost their homes and property as a result of hostilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u92	Thank you. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In our faction of our party there are huge claims to government activity. And we argue that there is no government policy in Ukraine aimed at supporting and providing young, Ukrainian young people with housing. Young boys and girls are forced to live with their parents, in unadapted conditions, in dormitories, in hired corners, not having children. And that's why 200,000 Ukrainians in the last six months have become smaller in Ukraine because there is no government support for young people. You'll think about your own home, when the peasants had the opportunity to take a loan of 200 to 300,000 dollars, for the peasants it's a big money, and build a house. This program is not here today. You live -- you're fine, and the villagers are nowhere to live, and the villagers don't have state support. Let's look at the draft budget next year. You put 80 billion dollars on subsidies, turning the whole country into beggars, and less than a billion dollars into energy-grade. Where Grandma, Grandpa in the village, will take 20,000, 30,000 dollars to replace the boiler where the pensioners in the city will take the money to replace the windows, the doors when they have a thousand dollars of pension. That is why the funds should be budgeted in the state budget. If we're talking about supporting young people, first of all, it's providing young people with jobs, decent pay and housing, and that's the job of the state. Instead, you suggest worsening conditions, increasing interest rates on loans, you take the last juices out of young people, you give them nothing else, and you take them away, instead of buying their children diapers, milk, and feeding their children, they should support you, parasites. That's why the Radical Party faction won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. She hasn't had a "fatherland" faction yet, has she? Yvchenko, please, 1 minute. Yvchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u95	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this bill, because it increases the cost of housing and also makes a fixed wage, and we know that today banks are lending under 27, and if it's under 10, we can only dream with you. But the problem is different. I mean, we don't have enough work to do, Gennady, Mr. Hennadia, with corruption. How do you choose builders? How much do they take off? So please tell the whole country how the Ministry of Regional Development is working directly with the builders today. Or did you avoid corruption in all the questions about how you choose a developer, which prepaid you do to him, and so on. One thing that concerns us is that the funds allocated by the Supreme Council go uncorruptionfully to affordable housing. And I'm not sure you're going to be able to get an affordable housing that applies directly to rural areas, because no rural programs work for you either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u96	Thank you. Please, 1 minute, Zubko Hennaday. And in a minute, we vote. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u97	Dear people's deputies, all in your hands. There's a Program and Own House, which last year provided 4,000 loans to the rural area and is a Program of State for Youth and Housing. And in your hands to fund next year and put this in the budget. I also propose to every national MP who wants to join the generalization and improvement of housing programs in this process in order to anticipate the risks of corruption, please make suggestions. To date, we are only making one proposal: to provide for the credit of the participants in the fighting and, secondly, the funds that come back from the users with the loans -- to give the participants the fights themselves. Therefore, please make a decision on the financing of the Own Home Program. I think that today the rural area can receive additional resources from fiscal decentralization and also use them as municipal development programs and support for rural youth housing. And also move in that direction to together fill local budgets to improve these programs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion is over. And I'm putting to the vote (please come into the room) a draft law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World and Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing on the Implementation of State Housing Programmes (room 4550) on the basis, colleagues, on the basis of, please support. Those who will have comments may be further developed into second readings. Please vote, please support, 4550, we vote, colleagues. [[17:20:22]] For 231 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, I wish you a fruitful job for your next reading. Next draft law, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of urban activity (in terms of territorial planning) (No. 5126). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support me to vote in favour of the reduced procedure, please. In summary, I meant please. [[17:21:05]] For-163 A decision on the reduced procedure is made. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Andriyev Dmitry Josephovich. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u99	Honorary colleagues, the draft law provides for amendments to some Ukrainian legislation aimed at resolving planning and land-building issues, introducing a generally accepted term in EU countries of old planning for simplification of the permit system in the area of urban construction, and regulating issues related to the settlement of relations in the execution of urban activities. The bill is aimed at further deregulation of construction processes, and its position is aimed at changing the structure of spatial planning documentation. A clearer definition of the functions of state authorities and local self-government in the development, approval and implementation of the territorial planning scheme. The introduction of a new type of planning documentation at the regional level of the unified territory plan. Maintenance of project documentation, division of territory project, micro-region, a block to determine land boundaries in existing areas. Dear colleagues, the bill is very important to support the strategy for decentralization on the one hand and the creation of united territorial communities. The committee also made changes and clarified paragraph 12, paragraph 1, of Part One, section 1, of the next edition. I'm asking for a transcript. Ten. The contractor in construction, further (the client), a natural or legal person who owns or uses the land on his own or on a contractual basis with the owner or user of the land area, carries out activities to secure the construction process, to take up construction and construction facilities, construction complexes, and to register immovable property. Please support it as a basis. During the preparation, I am confident that all questions will be answered in the preparation phase of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u100	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two for against, please. Yuri's sound, turn on the microphone, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u101	Please pass the word to Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u102	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro 209 constituency. Dear colleagues! This is the bill of our Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, which is very important, relevant and aimed at further deregulation of urban processes. That's why the People's Front faction supports this bill and urges all colleagues to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u103	Thank you very much. Please, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u104	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! The bill was prepared by the committee secretariat during the summer of this year, and all leading architects, experts in spatial planning in Ukraine, were involved. This is a system-wide work designed to improve the entire project planning documentation package at the level of our population. The principal thing that appears in this document is what the plan is. planning for a united territorial community. It is noted that the inhabited areas that are part of the unified territorial community will be able to gradually receive their master plans depending on the availability of funding. And the only requirement for today will be a master plan for the administration of the territory itself. the administrative center of such a community. We're also introducing a concept here, like, "local forgetful plan." It's actually going to be a community charter for planning, where you can build what kind of thing? That's actually what we're all waiting for. And we've seen with you in the Council how there were a lot of different kinds of bills that we've been trying to get, public activists, to warn about an unsanctioned building or something that the community doesn't like to be in a city. We're trying to improve it systematically right now. So we're very much asking you to support this, and the self-help union, of course, will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u106	Thank you. Please, Ljiko Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u107	Please pass the word to Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u108	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction supports this law and generally supports any improvement in urban activities. At the same time, I would like to share with my colleagues the impressions of visiting the city of Colomia, which are very much related to urban activity. They took part in a folk party with their colleague Yuri Timoshenko and went to the city’s head, Igor Sluzar, with the people. The city’s head fled, the secretary of the County Council collapsed in a chair in front of the community, and had to put it in front of the people. But that's not the point. The 13 criminal attacks on the city’s head, most of which involve the fact that he had just dumped people, raised money, and created cooperatives in the city before the mayor was elected. The Apherists sat in the city council and thought that they would rule there. No, they won't! People from Cologne asked all fellow members of the National Deputies to support the issue of the exit meeting of the anticorruption committee in Cologne and the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for these apherists who robbed the people who were stealing from the cartels. We support and ask for the support of the Colomia people in the fight against the Apherist Mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u109	Novak Natalija Vasilovna from Peter Dustenk's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the project that we are considering today is very important for construction, but it is not just about construction. There is such a term as "planning areas" which has no relation to construction, because the planning of areas is carried out both in relation to agricultural land, water funds, mining land, and only in connection with construction in villages, cities are construction. Therefore, the name of the law, the Land Planning Act, and the regulation of urban activities must be changed. It also introduces the term "planning areas that cancel out the master plans." If the master plan had previously been the main document governing the construction work, the master plan would now be nullified and not as important as it used to be. In addition, the master plan should not have been kept secret before, and everyone had access to the master plan under the Public Information Act. Now this article has disappeared. Next. The general plan was previously timeless and could only be changed every 5 years, now it has been changed for 2 years, but if the parameters change, changes to the general plan can be made much more frequently, which does not lead to the continued development of the city. And so what Vojciekhovsky, for example, acquired, can be changed to the master plan and legitimized. With regard to the detailed plans of the territories, it is also envisaged that detailed plans of the territories can be edited from the point of view of the change in the target assignment, which is also unacceptable. In addition, coastal protection strips will also be regulated by detailed territorial plans, although this is an environmental and national problem. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u111	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u112	I propose to abstain from voting for this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u113	Thank you. They haven't had the word "fatherland" yet. One minute, Yvchenko, then Papiev. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u114	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to support my colleague Novak and say it doesn't smell of decentralization. There is a complete decentralization of the city’s activities. The Cabinet of Ministers will now develop the methodology, and the general plans will now be developed. Yes, a new concept is introduced into the structure of construction documentation as planning documentation. But they will not now be able to bring together communities or any territorial communities into their minds to make a map of territorial planning as they see the development of the community. Now you and I are all going to be in cells because the methodology is going to be developed by Kabmin. They won't be able to stay away from this methodology, and they're going to approve the general layout of land and country planning as the Cabinet of Ministers. And then it's written that by 2020, we'll have a master plan for the entire country. Everyone will be given cells and told how to live. Colleagues, this is not the right approach to decentralization. This is a complete centralization of urban activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u115	Please, thank you. One minute, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u116	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear TV setters! The Opposition Block will support this bill, but only on the basis. And I would like, again, to ask our chairman a question. Look, this bill 5126, it wasn't and couldn't be in order for the day-to-day fourth session. He's actually out of order for a day-to-day fifth session that he doesn't have. In general, how did he appear today in the consideration of today’s order of the day? It's a rule-of-law question. And the next question. When we worked on this bill, it was very important that terms such as "regional interests" be regulated. Because we don't have such a term in the Constitution. We have an administrative system that establishes that the territory of Ukraine consists of areas, areas and so on. And this is also true of the regional planning scheme. So we're ready to make our proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! I just want to emphasize. Here one of the factions decided to take as a propaganda piece of his piece to talk about Reglament. I would like to point out that a committee, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we have chosen here, is the order of the day. And the committee tabled this bill as a list of those bills that they consider to be top priority. And this morning, we confirmed the schedule for the week. And you find yourself another propaganda thing, because you're obviously out of your imagination just a bunch of ideas and actions. We are acting clearly according to the Rules. Moreover, we are reforming Parliament, and our stalemate is a direct reform of Parliament in action. From the non-fractional, please 1 minute, Lewchenko, then 1 minute Zubko and go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u118	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It was said that we have now after lunch a block of questions. So far, I see that we have a block of building mafia issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At first, a missed bill was voted in the first reading, allowing for the legalization of illegal structures, by the way, by the votes of the Party of Regions and some so-called democratic factions. And now they're proposing to vote on the next bill to make it easier for the building industry. It is as if we have no problems throughout Ukraine, especially in large cities. It's like we don't have a problem when, for example, in Kiev, a commercial entertainment center is being built at the subway station right now. It's not all there, we've got everything great, the community has influence. No, let's make it easier. Here you suggest replacing the notion of urban documentation with planning documentation. Urban documentation is about the project itself, it's about the project requirements, not just where the house is going to be. You propose to repeal the entire law on the general planning scheme for Ukraine and hand over all these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, to make the construction industry even easier. I call.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u119	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u120	I call upon all the national MPs, especially the national MPs from the major cities, from the district centers, not to vote for it, it will be the betrayal of your electorate, you will continue to hand them over to the rest of the building mafia, where they will build children's playgrounds and parks near their homes. Don't do this! Don't do this!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u121	Final word Hennaday Zubko, 1 minute. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention in general to what everyone says about his own, but not only about the law that goes into Parliament. I thank those colleagues who have prepared this bill today, because it specifically allows the united territorial communities to decide when Parliament will decide to transfer authority and order the land, to plan the territory, not to pursue criminal conduct over a particular head, who will hand over his seal to a particular country. And I would like to thank you for your systematic work in order to introduce decentralization and bring about the unification of the territorial communities, and I hope that Parliament will decide on the transfer of land resources to the unified communities, to allow the use of this land and to involve the investor first to plan the territory, to agree with its deputies, to agree with the community and only then to make a decision. Hence, it is a very important bill that should prejudge the transfer of land to united communities. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let us move on to making a decision. I would like to point out that the bill is only a basis. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving urban planning activities, number 5126, based on the proposals of the committee that were presented under the transcript. Dear colleagues, on the basis of 5126, please vote, please vote. [[17:37:36]] For 185 Colleagues, I'm going to make the next suggestion that we have to return to the committee for the first time again. Can such an offer be supported? Colleagues, do we support such a proposal? Then, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the bill 5126 to return to the committee for re-reading, colleagues. Please vote, please support for the re-reading, please vote. [[17:38:20]] For 219 I think we were close to making a decision. Colleagues, I'll be right back. Let me make a third proposal, return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work, colleagues. Please, let's concentrate and ask everyone to participate in the vote. So I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further work, a colleague. Please vote, please support for the recast, please vote. [[17:39:08]] For 209 Dear colleagues! 209 for. The decision is not made. None of the proposals that were put to the vote were put to the vote, so Law 5126 was rejected. Colleagues, let's move on to the next draft of the Law, that's 4901. It's a bill on commercial accounting for utilities. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[5:39:55]] For 155 155 for. Decision taken. And I would like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Stashuk Vitali Filimonović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u124	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, you are invited to consider the draft law on the commercial accounting of utilities. The adoption of this law is necessary to solve two very important problems. The first is the problem of rational use of the country's water and fuel and energy resources. The second is, of course, the consumer's right to pay for the services that he actually received. In fact, this is a difficult situation, such as when it comes to providing water for multi-house households, which is about 29 percent of the population in the middle of this year. When we're talking about a housing facility with a commercial thermal energy bill, it's 59 percent, but it also doesn't guarantee the exact and correct calculation of all the necessary utilities. So we suggest in the project that we set a standard that makes it mandatory to equip all buildings connected to external heat networks, external hot water networks, external water supply networks, and external water supply networks with building nodes. The project predicts that these nodes will be used to calculate the corresponding utilities. Such nodes are required to operate an external network operator in non-residential buildings by October 1, 2017, after housing by October 2018. I want to say that the implementation of these laws should result in a significant reduction in the size of the service, according to the Dergenerge efficiencies, for example, if a multi-room billing device is installed, the consumption of heat becomes lower by at least 20 percent in accounts. Thus, only the adoption of this law will allow for the establishment of a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u125	Give me 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u126	That would regulate the pay for the utilities. And we'll always give up a problem like incorrect consumption standards as a basis for payment. I urge everyone to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u127	The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Aloni Babak. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u128	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 21 September 2016 reviewed the draft Law on Commercial Accounting of Municipal Services, which was submitted. (registration number 4901), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Staszek Vitali Filimonović, members of our committee and others, only 32 co-authors. The purpose of the bill is to regulate and formulate legal, economic and organisational principles for commercial and distribution accounting in the area of municipal services. The adoption of this draft Law is necessary to ensure the rational use of water, fuel and energy resources and to ensure the protection of the rights of consumers of municipal services through the introduction of mandatory commercial and distributional thermal energy calculations of hot and cold water. A significant result of the implementation of the draft law should also be a significant reduction in wages for services due to the inadequacy of actual water consumption levels to the established standards and standards, which are often excessive and also to heat energy. The main scientific and expert office, in general, sharing the idea of the need to improve legislation in the field of commercial utility accounting, notes that the way and mechanisms of such a calculation should correspond to the new rules of the Housing and Utilities Bill (Registration No. 1581-d) prepared for consideration in the second reading. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption did not find corruption in the bill. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft Bill No. 4901, on the basis of its further revision to the second reading. Thank you and please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Helen. Please write two in favour, two in front of you to discuss this bill. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Yuri Soloway.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u130	Please pass the word to John Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u131	Please, Ivan Melniczuk of Peter Dusty's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, my word to the representative of the Radical Party, who spoke under the past law. Of course, he was not acting legally; he was wearing a hansom, as it were, about the city of Colomia. I will explain why I look like him. Because instead of working in Parliament last plenary week, he flew on a plane to breathe abroad. And when it was all spread out in Ukraine, and everyone said, "Where does this pond breathe?"He had no better idea how to come to the city of Colomia on the weekends, set up a little riot there so that the whole of Ukraine could see that he was doing some kind of activity. I'll tell you, not an honorary MP, you won't go to Colomia anymore. Because you don't understand what the rumble is and what the city of Colomia is. And what's more, when you get there, the whole nation regrets why it still hasn't lifted the MP's immunity. Because there were so many who wanted to throw you out of the second floor of the hall, across the balcony! Do you understand? For what you did there. There is a member of the Supreme Council, chosen by the people. And he can only be given, according to the community's statements, an assessment of what's going on in the city of Colomia. And he himself in a private conversation told me that he didn't understand the third thing that got him there, on Maidan, and what you were talking about. So, my colleague, why don't you go to a meeting of the Supreme Council, vote on the bills that people need, especially the colloquials. Do not walk or drag officials, nor drag people who have been chosen by the communities for jackets. Because one day you're going to be so slow, believe me! If you don't know what to do, go to the party and raise money. That's very good of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u133	Please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u134	Please pass the word to Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u135	Please, Alexander Kodol.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u136	Alexander Kodolah. Dear colleagues, as co-author of this legislative initiative, I would like to point out that a bill is very necessary for the rational use of water and fuel and energy resources. The adoption of the law will allow for 100 percent accounting, which we believe will reduce the amount of uncalculated water in buildings by 75 percent and reduce heat consumption by about 20 percent over 1-3 years. The full accounting of consumption will allow residents in multistory buildings to save an average of 25 percent of their resources. Thanks to the full calculation of energy consumption, the state will have objective information about increasing the transparency of the energy market. Therefore, the People's Front supports this legislative initiative and urges all colleagues to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u137	Please, from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u138	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The lack of real accounting for utilities, gas accounting, energy carriers, as a result, is paid to Ukrainians when they get tariffs from the ceiling and then people show a month of work and they can't make money to pay for the utility, and I don't say for all the other needs that every Ukrainian family has. Now, one of the things that people told me about when I was going through the areas is that you put the meters on the house. Instead of putting a counter on each individual apartment, they put the counters on the house and then the person has to pay for what they didn't eat. That's why I'm asking the government to provide in the state budget for the cost of installing water accounting meters, heat, gas individually for every dwelling in order for Ukrainians to pay only for the services they consume. In addition, I reiterate that conservation of energy dependence and poverty in the case of 70 billion dollars of subsidies in the budget is a dead end. We have to anticipate energy-generating costs, weed reconstruction, heattrass, window replacements, doors, the warming of housing units, and do so at the expense of the state budget. Since humans are brought to the pen, nearly 60 percent do not have food, let alone replace a boiler instead of a gas boiler that has not previously counted the gas with pellets. And this is the task that the government and the department of profile are doing, unfortunately, you're not doing. That's why the Radical Party is judging, the 21st of October court, where we're going to sue the government's decision, try to lower the price of gas, try to lower tariffs and try to get the social standard back for citizens to pay half the gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u139	One more minute. The speech by Rybczyn Alexy Mihajlovich, please, and let's proceed to the vote. No, there'll be a Self-Help. Please, Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u140	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. As co-author, I'm very glad that this important bill has finally been put into the hall. But I want to remind you of the history of the question in general that relates to calculation. As early as 2009, the government of Timoshenko had implemented an appropriate regulation and a state programme, which was distributed from 2010 to 2014, which envisaged a 100 percent accounting. Regrettably, the following governments, none of the governments, have developed a decision that would account for a hundred percent. And that's why I'm glad that the Supreme Council finally did it with a lot of MPs, and we're going to accept it, and the Fatherland supports it. But I have a question about how the government could have decided to increase the tariffs on so-called market tariffs, which we are now charging in court, the government's ruling and the NCRECR, without even asking how to issue subsidies to people if you don't know how much they consume. And it's not people getting these subsidies, it's supposed to get the oligarchs and their pocket heatcommunergo. How could you issue "warm" loans to people if you don't know how much energy it's going to reduce consumption? How can we even talk about a hundred percent calculation if you can't regulate this heat? Is there a heat in the apartments now, and how do people regulate it? The quarters open, the windows open. If you can't regulate this tariff, it's just a tax that people pay extra. We have some warnings, really it's very good that there's going to be an inducer counter, and actually the inefficiency of the thermocommunerge, actually the inefficiency of the oligarchs who don't invest in pipes, don't invest in other things it's going to be overcome, because people are going to pay really for it. However, the issue of individual counters has not yet been fully resolved by the bill. Because there are people who reduce their consumption and they're going to pay for those who don't reduce their consumption: hostels, hostels, and people that I don't know there, they consume gas to do certain things. And we're going to pay for the inefficiency of our neighbors. This question needs to be further worked out. We vote in favour of this bill, it really does fit European standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u141	Thank you. From Self-Help, Alana, Alona Babak. Alona Valerievna, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, the commercial accounting of water and heat at the level of the apartment house -- what does that mean? It's primarily an opportunity to translate into money the economy that's been made from investing in the energy saving of your house. If there's no accounting at the level of the house, all we do is change windows, change doors or do anything else, we can't translate into real money. reducing our utility payments. This is the first prerequisite for us to be able to reduce our wages. But surely we need to make sure that the water in the basement does not leak out because there will be a household allowance. We have to take care of this. We must understand that then one house will not pay for another's loss, because each house has its own owner, who must care that his house is in proper condition. What is important in this law? For the first time in Ukraine, it will be provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u143	Please finish 30 seconds. Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u144	For the first time at the legislative level, there is free access by the consumer to house accounting information, there is no distribution of wages between each house. People say, "Who did they count? Did they give or didn't they?"all this will be in the free access of the consumer and stored in archives for a long period of time. This is the first step that you and I can take to feel the real economy from energy saving investments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u145	Thank you, 1 minute, please, National Deputy Bezbach. Are you no longer insisting? Mr. Bezbach! Don't insist. Mr. Bezbach, are you insisting on the performance? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Almost everyone's speaking. Yeah, from. Opposition Block, 1 minute, Matvienkov. Matvienkov, one minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u147	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol City. Respected colleagues, home-level accounting, are primarily to shift the problems of non-payers to those who pay in good faith today. The problem of energy efficiency is, unfortunately, that we now have a problem in the country for those who consume heat. The problem of loss is the problem of those who pay for heat. Unreachable services, running water through the streets, warming the atmosphere are all the problems of our consumers. The problem of non-payers is also, unfortunately, the problem of consumers. And the system that is being pushed and offered to us today is to shift the headache from those who provide heat services to those who are practically doing and paying. The issue of what the accounting system needs to be established and, of course, needed. And the Cabinet of Ministers had to not send the MPs a bill that had been drafted, but to work on the system and bring a bill here that would provide the counter in each apartment! And so everyone understands exactly what he's paying for!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The closing statement of Gennady Zubka and we move on to the vote. One minute Hennaday Zubko. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u149	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that this bill has been drafted by more than 40 MPs together with the government, and the government has no doubt supported this bill. Why is this important? Because it is impossible to manage those who are not accounted for. Why is it that we are constantly asked today: How and when are the counters set up to count not just the norm, not just the heat that enters the air, but what is consumed? And that's what's going to make sure that people pay for the energy they consume, not for the pipes that have been ripped up or for the energy that's left to them now by the heat companies. It is this bill that allows for the introduction of a completely commercial bill by 2017. And it is this bill that gives a clear answer today: Whose account should these counters be installed? At the expense of supply organizations. Whom will he serve? What's the order? So we need to take the first step, to adopt this law in the first reading, in order to start accounting for what we consume and what we have saved. And if we're talking about subsidies, if we're talking about reforming this subsidy system, if we're talking about future monetaryization of subsidies, we're going to have to count this economy to figure out how this energy was used. And that's why I'd like you to look again at exactly how this accounting is going to be done both in the house and in the apartment, and exactly how to ensure that the interior. The inter-house networks weren't both in the water and in the heat, and in other energies. So I would like to focus on this, because this is a basic bill that opens the first step towards energy efficiency issues, accounting issues, governance issues, the question of how to bring Ukraine closer to the European countries that today consume five.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-18-m1.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking for jobs, and I'm voting on the bill on commercial utility bill number 4901 on the committee's proposal, on the basis of my colleagues. During the discussion, everyone supported the proposal and I ask her to support and vote. 4901 on the basis, colleagues, please vote, please support. Based on the base. [[18:00]] For 238. Decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you. Can we consider another bill? Can't we make it? [[B in m in s a l in]] . All right, colleagues. I want to make a little message then, we're too late to get to the housing and utility block, and I promised the committee head that we would move this block to the next week and start with it on Tuesday so that we could complete those bills that the committee was preparing, which were prepared by the Vice Prime Minister and the Ministry. Next week, Tuesday, we'll start with housing and utility issues. Today was a fruitful day, a hard day, and I welcome all of you with successful decisions. And I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye!
