ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. I'm asking everyone to come into the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine and prepare for registration. We have important issues that we need to confirm today, in particular the draft Order of the Day Session and there are ratification issues, including the draft Law on the Ratification of the "Programme for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure of Ukraine". So I want to draw your attention while you're taking your seats, to what I think from the general statement that we need to update the country and make sure that the economy develops, we need to move on to absolutely specific things. And one of the important sectors, I think, is the municipal infrastructure sector. Look at the villages, the villages, the cities in which infrastructure is in terrible condition today, and which is actually needed to bring about order, provide quality services and quality living conditions. So we need you to do extensive repairs, capital repairs all over the country. That means we're going to create hundreds and thousands of jobs in places. We've done financial decentralization, we have a resource today to further allocate resources to repair everything that needs to be repaired and restored, all the infrastructure in the area. Now we're going to ratify international agreements with you, where our international partners are billions of dollars that can be sent to this sector. That means we're going to put a lot of pressure on economic development. So I would like to encourage all of us today to move forward very quickly with these initiatives. I think that if we can do it with you, and I'm convinced that we can provide the conditions for such a capital rehabilitation of the country, we will ensure a serious increase in the national economy, we will ensure that we reduce the consumption of any energy resources, any energy resources, and, including, we will reduce tariffs that are very much spoken of in the rostrum, but it's such a very specific matter. So I'm counting on you and I to be able to support these initiatives and move forward. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. In particular, yesterday you and I adopted the law as a basis, and in the first reading, we considered it as a matter of the Housing Services Act. I mean, these are basic systemic things that I think are very necessary and necessary today. Colleagues, we're taking our seats. Dear colleagues, today. Sergey Lechchenko is now proposing a vote of 3,700. Mr. Sergey, right now, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have Wednesday, and we have 30 minutes of speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. Therefore, after that, your proposal will be announced and considered. Dear colleagues, let's register. Please register. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:04:06]] 328 national deputies ready to join the "capital repair" of Ukraine. Ready? It's very important. Dear colleagues, prepare for now. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Please prepare to sign up for the performance, your honors. And after we've used you and me for 30 minutes, I'm asking all the faction leaders and groups to consolidate the deputies so that we can confirm the order of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the plenary. So please, at 10.30-10.35, we will proceed to the vote for the approval of the agenda. Do we have a deal? Please include the "Council" system for the registration of national deputies and, your honors, register, sign up for the performance. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic, please, Reverend Victor Mikhailovich. Yuri Solovay, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u2	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, you have just said the right things about the necessary capital rehabilitation of the country and the need to make decisions that contribute to the economic development, the development of the housing sector, the creation of jobs. But let's look at what we've been looking at in the walls of our Parliament in the last two weeks. Were the day-to-day issues related to the economy relating to the country's capital recovery? No, virtually no such decisions were made in the daytime. We're talking about coalition today, we're talking about referendums today, we're talking about reports today, we're talking about personnel issues today, but people on the street are completely different. And in particular, today, I'm being approached by mass business representatives, representatives of public organizations with one question, and today and tomorrow, what will happen to the Ukrainian currency exchange rate? What's going to happen to the Ukrainian currency rate? Why is there today a report in the Ukrainian Parliament of the head of the National Bank on how the banking sector will develop, which will be the course in 2016, how will deposits be returned to Ukrainian citizens, how will credit be restored? That is why I believe that the role of the Ukrainian Parliament, in addition to the adoption of laws, should also clearly be the responsibility of monitoring the performance of the executives of their official instructions. And so I demand that on Friday, when we have an hour of questions to the government, we definitely listen to the report of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the situation of the national currency exchange rate and the results of this report, to take appropriate references. I think that's the question that concerns hundreds of thousands of millions of Ukrainian citizens today. And we're talking a lot about government candidates today, but why are we not having a discussion about what GDP growth is going to be like in 2016? And how much are we going to reduce the number of unemployed, and what are we going to have to borrow? And so I think that our debate in Parliament should not only be personal, but it should be quantitative and qualitative. And so I demand that, in addition to talking about the staffing of the government, that the Ukrainian Parliament take seriously, unlike 2015, the approval of the government's programme of activities for 2016. So it's not just a document with general notions, it's a document where we could estimate the government's activity: how much GDP has grown, how much investment has come into the economy, how much have we reduced the number of unemployed, and so many other economic issues. And that's why I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u3	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Having examined how much time the Ukrainian Parliament devotes to economic issues, it can be said that absolutely – no matter how much. I think it's every week.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Mikola Petrovich. Barna, Oleg Barna. Barna? Oleg Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u6	Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian people and we have finally come to realize that this government led by Arsenius Petrovich has failed to live up to our expectations and has failed to meet our requirements, including Maidan. Therefore, an immediate replacement is required. The people demanded reform, but unfortunately there are no reforms. Majdan demanded that corruption be overcome, unfortunately, it even increased. We wanted true authority, and we received, sadly, not a very real prime minister. The people elected the national prime minister, and we formally voted him and, sadly, the Prime Minister, mocking us as deputies, let Parliamentarianism down to the plentuse. Well, now it turns out that the people who wanted to live better in charge of this Prime Minister and government were now led to poverty. And if we want a fundamental change here, and if we have to. It is necessary to change the fundamental government, and the faction's re-election of prime ministers will give rise to the same inefficient government that we had before. We must take a fundamental step towards the creation of a new government and these should be prime ministers who will be together on a team with a new prime minister to build a new Ukraine. In order to do this, we must first put forward, propose to the Prime Minister a person who will not be involved in any political force, and for whom Ukraine and the people will be priorities. A person who will be a social moral authority for the entire nation and then, on his proposals, we must confirm the prime minister's office to this prime minister of those persons who, along with him, will create a team to build a new Ukraine. And reformatting the government, which is now being offered with a partial replacement of individual ministers, is a way of leaving the same Jacinyuk who is now ready, sorry, "and hell of a friend," just to keep his premiere. When we talk about economic development strategy, it's not there right now, nor is it a development algorithm. So everything is done by accident, by accident, by accident. The lives of the people for the time being are catastrophic, and to give a true assessment of the government, believe it or not, and that is what our lives will do, and it gives true appreciation to the people themselves. And the people give this objective assessment, believe me, not for our benefit. Either we start to fundamentally change the system of executive power, or we start.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u7	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u8	We're starting to make real reforms, not populist ones; or let's do it, friends, we're stepping down. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u9	People's Deputies of Doves.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u10	Greetings, dear Kievyas, and you, many guests of the capital! Dmitri Dolubov, Odessa, 136 constituency. Georgian bloodline continues to drink the blood of Odessites and residents of the region. And as many have already noticed, it has already blown up like a mosquito with hemoglobin, and it has completely lost its sense of measure and reality. And while he was pastrolling with his anti-corruption mobile circus, the key area of Odessa Province – Ovidiopolski – he said no to a gang of Georgian racketeers. The Ovidiopolsky region, forgotten by the governor, was left alone by the snowman Cheluskin. And of course, local deputies were obliged to express their mistrust to the head of the district administration, Deputy Saakashvili. And such mistrust was expressed for the first time in the area, never before has it been, because the head of administration did not appear to have worked, received no budget, bribed and toiled, and nothing but a pass and a pass. And other areas of the Odessa region will follow the Odessa region, and they have been shown a good example, and they are tired of the rackets and picks of the Georgian brothers. What was the Georgian dictator hoping for when his subordinates sent letters to all the major taxpayers in the region requiring 1.5 million bracelets for their "community"? What did he hope for when his subordinates demanded three elite apartments for his gang? What was he thinking when he asked, with funds for ATO soldiers, 8 charity jeeps for his brigade? And he was thinking about one thing: the upcoming elections in Georgia's parliament, where he would have to conduct his lakh with the money of the Odessa region. And you know, we haven't seen him in two months. He was seen in Turkey, in Poland, in Washington, in Bukoville, in Nikolaev, in Jaremce, anywhere but in the workplace. And the Odessa region has never seen such homage before. We haven't seen him in two months, and he's never wanted to be seen again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u11	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u12	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I, too, want to talk about the major repairs that the Chair has been talking about here today. In recent times, we have been talking a lot about reforms -- about medical reforms, about education reforms, about economic reforms -- and we are talking a lot about positive developments in these areas. After decentralization, it is generally said that practically on the ground the people have already felt, that it is already practically decentralization, that it is now easier for everyone to live. I want to say to those who say this: sit in the mayor's seat today, especially after the adoption of the 2016 budget and try to organize a job, try to make ends meet. Children’s meals were placed on local councils, local councils were kindly placed on boards, children’s kindergartens were placed on local councils, parents, culture, music, sport, PTU, and local councils. According to PTU, watch how Jesuits laid down: buildings, methodology, personnel - everyone left behind the Ministry, the Ministry runs the office, and the money is given local advice. The city of Mariupol, for example, the industrial city, needs to be trained. Seven vocational schools are 75 million money. Think for a minute about where to take that kind of money. And no one analyzed, no one saw what needed to be done, how to modernize, where to unite, where to clean, how to do it. Seven billion in the budget is not enough, and the money was taken away by Darwin's method. We ask the Minister of Finance, they answer us on Friday, and they say, "Two months, three months, we'll wait, see, then maybe we'll help somebody." That is, the principle: we will rise, we will help, we will not ascend, we will not help. If you hit those midwives, it's said, there's 300 million in Mariupol to date. Where's the money coming from? In addition, the Law on interim measures for the period of the ATO is in force. What's he talking about? The land tax is zero in this city, business is virtually shut down: neither sale nor transformation is going anywhere. How can we get out of this situation? Another moment, which is equally important, is ecology. Many here have spoken about what we need, and we have already taken some steps in this direction. The principle to date: The more the city smokes, the more it pays for pollution. 25 per cent remain on the ground, 75 per cent go there. Say it twice: will they reduce the emissions there? Why not change? We have repeatedly made suggestions on how to change this situation. We have prepared a number of bills, we have prepared budget changes, we have prepared amendments to these laws, we have prepared Law 3821. If we want to do something, let's really do it in the end. And one more moment, I want to say. We have a democratic government: they fly planes in the economy. But I wish they were still on trains. For example, the Mariupol-Kiev train. Excuse me, I understand there's no money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u13	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u14	There's no money for retrofitting technology, but the kind of mess that's built there: dirt, unshielded curtains and so on. One dumb-ass author said, "Destruct is in the head." Let's get this thing out of our heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u15	I looked at Mariupol's budget -- 1 billion 700 million. Please, People's Deputy Shipko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u16	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Dear national MPs, dear voters, I have in my hands the report of the government of medicine and the Coalition Agreement, these are two different documents. The medical part of the Coalition Agreement is larger than the fact that the Ministry of Health worked so hard in 2015. Let's go through the dots. Report by the Government: The market reform process has begun. Positive? Do you need it? Yes. But let's think about what the MOH is telling us as a reform of the drug market. Unfortunately, so - called tender procedures for the purchase of medicines and medical supplies through international organizations are being compiled. And where is the system in the pharmaceutical sector? Where are the cost-recovery programs for the population? Where is the solution to the drug advertising issue? And when was the last time a government official bought drugs in a pharmacy? Did they even see the prices? Reform is a complex approach, it's creating transparent rules in the form, it's those steps that will be aimed at accessing affordable and high-quality drugs. National MPs, not members of the coalition, registered bills are regulated to deal with all these issues. This is Bill 2162, 2162-1, in preparation for the committee draft of the Law on Medical Devices. Let's move on. Report by the Government: A change of approach to public health policy is ensured. Colleagues, look at this part. MOH calls health reform, and the statement is very loud. But what really is? Nothing but approving at the legislative level the possibility of privatizing hospitals. In order to give medical institutions more rights, it is necessary to make it possible to manage their own resources freely and avoid risks, rather than making some changes in certain articles. Such a document is also registered in Parliament, Bill 2463a on the status and activities of health institutions, also a deputy, not a minister. And that's how you can walk all over the place. And most of all, the ILO did not even get close to the introduction of compulsory social and health insurance, although again what we did, the national MPs. Bill 2462a, on the gradual implementation of insurance, as stated in the Coalition Agreement, has also been registered. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Rebirth Party needs to hear a separate report from each minister in the session room. And let every head of the Ministry tell people what he's been doing all year. And the last. Perhaps now is the time to hear all the thoughts and societies and representatives of all political powers and branches and only then to appoint ministers. Let there be a few candidates, and society will give its assessment to everyone. As long as we quietly release and appoint ministers, there will be no order in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u17	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Journalists ask me if I have read the government report. I'll tell you the truth, I don't read this shit. Because in fact, the government report is not the ones that are spending pounds of government money, but whether people have money in their pockets. If anyone wants to see the real government report, go stand under any supermarket or market. And you'll see that people aren't there, and the individual citizens who come there, they're just going to look at this window, and they're going to pat their teeth next to the leavened cabbage, and then they're going to turn around and they're going back. That's the whole government report. There's money in people -- that's a positive government report, there's no money in people -- so that's the whole thing that's being handed out that's not worth the paper that it's written on. Because the real work of the government has to be geared towards one thing, it's raising the standard of living for people, it's increasing wages and pensions, and not just for the government, but for the President, and for the parliamentary majority. Are you doing something for people? You don't. Look at the agenda you offered the country today. Darmoids do more than you do. Because where are the laws required by the Radical Party faction? They're gone. Why not? Because you don't care about people's problems. So where I'm going, Vladimir Borisovich, if you have hearing problems, let me recommend a good doctor. And if you don't have hearing problems, I'm asking you to meet our demands and bring you up to date with Parliament: the Retirement of Pension Tax Law (3809), the Recalculation of Gas for the Population (3747), the abolition of the President's veto and the possibility for women to retire at 55 years of age (1086), the Bill (2353) on the restructuring of the debts of natural persons. Start working for the people! Did people choose you for what, who forgot? To help them, at least a little! The people in the village, the colporteurs, the milkmaids, the pigs, they don't ask for anything! They ask you not to interfere, let some air breathe, let me make a little bit of money, hold on! You don't give it and you pretend to be reforming it. Your reforms will end with half of the people taking their feet to the cemetery. Therefore, we ask you to adopt laws that will enable you to radically increase the standard of living of people, the purchasing power to have the means to feed their families. This is the only possibility and the only right program for authority to work with. Otherwise, what do we need you for, Darmoids!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u19	Am I entitled to a replica? Yes, Oleg Valeriyovich, just so you're not offended, I'm thinking of taking the floor. Found the extreme, found the extreme. Unresponsible populism may be lost in this country. This country, I emphasize, may lose irresponsible populism. I want women to retire when they're 50 years old, but I'm gonna ask you a lot. And me, for 50. I'm in 50. Is that populism? 50 is populism. And 55 is not populism? I see. You've heard the difference between populism and not populism in five years. Oleg Valeriyovich, I want to say one thing: let's make responsible decisions -- it'll be much better for us, for the country than we'll just say nice words. I'm ready for anything. For everything. Please, Nestor Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for finally allowing me to speak, thank you, dear colleagues. In terms of population, I fully support you here, I'd like to see Law 71 from December 2014, which cancelled and imposed pension taxes, who voted for it. It's those who are yelling about it right now that voted for it. But I'll be honest with you, I'm delighted today with the performance by the representatives of the Peter Dusty Block. Gontareva first, get out. Do you agree? The whole room agrees. Then Yatsenuk led people to poverty, that's your quote. Do you agree? Let's agree, we're applauding our colleagues. Third of all, let the Georgians forgive me. Retirement? Retirement. But, Your Honor, you're retreating from whom? From the head of state, you're the ruling faction, so release them all. What are you complaining about? Take it and fire, the fish is rotting in your head. You know, I have a lot to take in this Parliament, but it's hard for me to accept lies and when people are in a hurry to lie. What did you promise people when you took the budget? This is an urgent need for credit and we will make changes in January. You've already lied to people in the budget. Where's the 24 bracelet, will you ask people today? This year's forecast is 30. Today, 26.5 in exchangers and 25.5 in the official course. Where's the 12 percent inflation you're talking about today? Prices go up like mushrooms after the rain. Today you will ask our beloved women what it costs to answer you with such a good, kind word. And, of course, we have already calculated this, and the revenue of the State budget is growing, unfortunately, for a network of inflations and devaluations. Estimated increase in income of 84 billion grevens. We tabled a bill, did it for you, number 3793, where we propose that 62 billion bracelets be sent to raise the minimum wage and pension. Today, today, a minimum pension of about $50, and a salary of 70. Two years ago, under that criminal authority, it was equivalent today to 3,000, 700 bracelets, minimum wage and 2,000, 700 bracelets would be a minimum pension. And today 1,000 150 and 1,000 500 is going to be at the end of this year, that's not normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u21	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u22	Do you know what people are saying today? We don't know what she was like. No one can prove it, but the average wage was $500 and today it's 150.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u23	Thank you. That's it, that's it. Please, Andrew Illenko. Colleagues, I call on everyone to be tolerant.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u24	Andrew Illenko, the All-U.S. Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian citizens who listen to us! Today, I would like to address the Supreme Council in such an important position, namely the situation in the capital city of Ukraine, Kiev. Because according to the decision taken by the same Kyiv people, according to Ukrainian legislation, at the end of March of this year, elections were to take place in Kiev for district councils. But by way of manipulation, by means of totally designed and artificial court decisions, today, in fact, out of power, elections to district councils in Kiev have been suspended. And it's actually against the background of absolute hypocrisy, because the same city authority is afraid to say so, and frankly take responsibility for such a decision, rather than acting with the hands of others. And in this situation, I want to remind you that in 2010, it was the Janukovitch regime that eliminated the district councils in Kiev. And then it was one of the first steps to usurp power, actually, in Kiev and then in Ukraine. And now, unfortunately, today's power is going the same way. Because when we talk about decentralization, it's kind of weird that decentralization comes out. In the capital of Ukraine in Kiev, in a city where there was, in fact, the epicenter of the Dignity Revolution, where a huge number of people live, why the Chinese have no right to decentralization, why they have no right to choose power in the areas, to allow the control of the district administrations, which are now completely irresponsible, who are simply appointed by officials from above the community unaccountable, uncontrollable, there is no influence on them. For some reason, the cynics are deprived of such a right, and in a hypocritical way such a subtle way. Instead, it is said that self-governance should be given to certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, which are now occupied by Russia, that they should be allowed to hold elections there, that amnesty should be given to them, that money should be paid to them, that courts should have their own, that prosecutor's own, the national police they themselves appoint. And somehow there's no right for the Chinese, it's a totally marasmatic situation. I just want to say that, in general, the election cancellation games end very badly. Consider how it was in the past when elections to the Kiev City Council were not held for several years and so forth. Now in Kiev, there's a huge number of illegal building scandals, a huge number of problems, and now it's possible, through the elections through communities in the area, to influence this situation, that's a real solution. So this is going to happen, the elections to the district councils have to take place, and the manipulations have to stop. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! One minute I'd like to draw your attention to the next thing you know, there were two speakers here. I didn't testify. There were two speakers for decentralization, including the city of Mariupol, and it was said that decentralization was bad. Can I read three lines to you from the official website of the Mayor's Council and explain very clearly what decentralization is, can I? Thank you. I read: “In pursuance of article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the disclosure of local budgets, the Finance Department of the Mariupol City Council informs that the income of the city budget for January-September 2015, taking into account official transfers, amounts to 1 billion 793 million dollars, an increase of 50 per cent compared to the same period of 2014 or 597 million 829,000 dollars and a growth rate of one minute! - 41.5 per cent or 526 million 1 45,000 bracelets. The General Fund for the Urban Budget, without taking into account the amount of inter-budget transfers, has received a moment! - 795 million 603,000 bracelets. And there it is. [[B in m in s a l in]] And this is actually financial decentralization. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, my dear colleagues, in order to have stable prices in Ukraine, in order for the bracelet not to fall, we need to have a powerful export to sell products abroad at the expense of this, not at the expense of IMF loans, filling our trade balance. So we have to stimulate our exports. The government's job was to double Ukrainian exports by the 19th. What happened? In the 14th year, 15 percent drop, in the 9 months of the previous year, drop more than 30 percent. We lost tens of billions of dollars in exports, lost not only because of Donbas, lost not only because of the Russian market, but even under the terms of trade preferences from Europe, we were unable to increase our exports. And what happens in these conditions? Look at the statement made by the head of the National Bank of Honduras that the National Bank is firmly opposed to the creation of an export credit agency. It's against that expert credit agency that's under the Coalition Agreement that we've all adopted in the laundry of legislative reform, against that expert credit agency that works in successful countries of the world. He says that such an institution is only in the Czech Republic. So I want to let her know that these institutions that export their manufacturers are in Austria, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, other countries. So the position of Potter is extremely unprofessional, politically destructive and anti-government in its essence. Not enough of what made all the Ukrainians three times as poor as their money, little of what they gave hundreds of billions of dollars to refinance, which they didn't know where they went. What are they doing? Small business? Maybe someone got cheap loans? Less than 2 percent abroad, and then business has loans of under 15 in the dollar and below 40 in the bracelet. This is the policy of the National Bank. This is disgrace and shame! That's why we adopted Bill 2142a with you in the first reading -- on the large-scale stimulus of exports in a country that is fully in line with the directives of the European Union, which is fully in line with our WTO agreement, which corresponds to the OECD Consensus of 78. So we don't have to make Ukraine a banana republic, we won't let that happen! So if Gonnaareva has at least a crumb of shame, she has to do what Abramavis did -- resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u27	The last performance is Sergey Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Because right now I'm going to criticize you for what you've been doing in the Supreme Council for the past few weeks. You're turning it into a circus. Law 3,700 you've been trying 18 times to get into the agenda, the law that introduces the dictatorship of party leaders, the law that gives leaders the right to clean up on the list of constituencies. It all began with the parties participating in the election for the oligarchs, for the money of the various candidates. After the election, party lists began to be cleaned. Among those who want to clean up the lists: Peter Prashenko's Block, Lachka's Party, Fatherland Party, and so on. Instead of accepting people on lists that are unworthy, there is no need for law under family names right now. Do you understand? In the Party of Peter Prashenko's Block, the first attorney of Corban's will be present. Today, there's a conflict between Corban and the authorities, so it didn't have to be adopted two years ago on the electoral list in order to now bend the entire Parliament and vote 220 times in favour of a law that doesn't pass. What's more, the laws are adopted by buttoncodes, you have to talk about it in a voice, sit on a gallery and push the buttons for 3-4 candidates. For 3-4 deputies. We were going to this Parliament to be honest. Vladimir Borisovich, this is an address for you, so please comment. Finally, corruption cannot be fought only in executive power if it is in the legislature. Now with regard to the situation in the state, it is obvious that the situation is escalating and now there are attempts by Arsenija Yatzenyuk to preserve his post as Prime Minister. The prime minister, who has no support in the session hall, in society, or among investors, as he has invested in the economy of Ukraine, is trying to form a government through the appointment of several additional ministers. This arrangement takes place in public throughout the country. Instead, we have to go to full reboot. We need to change the Prime Minister, we need to change the Attorney General, we need to change the Minister of Internal Affairs, we need to clear Parliament of the people who are accused of corruption. Today, Economy Minister Abromavistus stated in a direct text at a press conference that he was resigning because of the pressure exerted on him by the Supreme Council. He called the name of a fellow member of the BPP Cononenko faction. I want Cononenko to come up to this rostrum and comment on the charges that are echoing at his address. If he's involved in corruption, he has the same mandate as other deputies did, for example, Martinenko. If he's not involved in corruption, he has to answer these charges. Enough in this Parliament to be contractors in the eyes of the entire state, time to make a full reintroduction of power, or it will end in the election of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I accept criticism in a very constructive way, especially constructively. But when the bill was signed by five faction leaders and they raise that question every day, that's their offer. Your right to vote or not. But I stress that it's only a matter of getting into the agenda and considering this issue. How to Vote? Everyone votes the way his conscience tells him whether he thinks he's right or wrong. For example, I objected to Law 3693, on local councils, because it is a real usurpation of power on local councils: elected deputies to call off party bodies. What's that? It's just unacceptable. But that's one thing. And this is about another law that needs to be discussed. Please be sure not to vote - don't let the MPs vote. But, well, it can't be any different. Colleagues, we now need to adopt the order of the day session. I'd like everyone to take their seats now, because it's important that we adopt this draft decree. This is to establish the order of the day session with all the laws registered at the time of this decision, the decision of the Supreme Council. So that's what all the bills are about. Yesterday we agreed with you that the first plugin stays in order of the day session, everything in Appendix One. And in Appendix Three, there's a list of laws that can be obsolete by the committees. But notice, if the author of the law thinks that he should be left behind, he simply gives written confirmation, and he will be left in the order of the day session. In fact, everything is objective. So I'd like everyone to support this agenda project right now. Let's have a signal vote on the approval of the agenda. You see, we need to establish it so that we can look at the laws. It's a technical decision without any political subtext. Colleagues ready to vote? Then let's vote for approval, take your seats, invite MPs. Please. Let's do the magic vote. Colleagues, I'm putting an offer on the vote. Let's see. Now, MPs are coming in, one minute, one minute, yes, one minute. Take your seats, dear fellow national MPs, please. Signaling the order of the day. Ready? Come on, let's vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:45:56]] For 181 Signal. So far, there are not enough national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, once again, I emphasize the approval of the order of the day session. All national deputies, non-fractional, factional, please enter the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall and participate in the vote, all factions and groups. Please. Confirmation of the order of the day session. Colleagues, this is the plan of our work with you. What's the big deal? Let's re-vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the approval of the agenda. Signal vote. [[10:47:44]] For 197 There's more MPs coming up. I think we can move on to draft regulations on ratification of Ukraine's laws. Before that, I want to announce that we have a colleague today, celebrating our birthday, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Let's welcome him. Congratulations, dear fellow, on your birthday! [[Applause]] Well, what about ratification will be the first and then we'll go back to confirming the order of the day session. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Project "Programme for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure of Ukraine") between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Reported to Deputy Prime Minister Zubko. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please vote. [[10:48:52]] For-187 Please, Hennaday Zubko, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, you are invited to consider ratifying the Financial Agreement under the Programme for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. I would like first of all to thank Parliament for having voted yesterday in the first reading of the Housing and Utilities Act, which covers specific issues: the responsibility of the service provider, consumer rights, and the commercial bill, which allows us to calculate the quality of the service for which a fair price is to be paid. The question of common property is also closed. And today, the demonization of the JECK allows citizens to unite, engage in services, and invest in modernizing their homes. It is the Agreement with the European Investment Bank that makes it possible for unprecedented loan terms for the first time. This means that it is practically possible today to invest up to 15 years in lighting and waste management. And we are now waiting for the adoption in Parliament of a bill on the management of household waste. By the age of 22, for heating, for up to 30 years, for water supply and water supply and vacations, which are today after payment of the body loan, respectively, for 3, 5 and 8 years per water. This means that today there is virtually a possibility at 1.31 percent of the cost. The program also foresees the possibility of investing in energy efficiency. And in this project, there's a proposal from the European Investment Bank to do a few projects after a quarterly reconstruction. This means that utilities will be able to raise funds to switch networks, cut costs, modernize utilities, get municipalities involved in this neighborhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u31	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u32	The municipality will raise funds and allow its joint owners to carry out the process of thermomodernization. So make a quarterly reconstruction in part of the energy efficiency of the networks and so raise not only the cost of housing in this neighborhood but also provide quality services. That is why this program is being proposed, and I would like to see that today both the directors of utilities and the city heads and the heads of the united territorial communities clearly and carefully consider the terms of the funds involved as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u33	End date for how long? Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u34	Therefore, I ask you to support the ratification of this financial agreement and to join in its implementation together with the Supreme Council and with local self-government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Colleagues, there is a need to discuss, are there willing to speak? The co-reporter is invited to the floor, the first deputy head of the Klimpush-Cincadze Committee, Joanna Orestovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u36	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Head, Your Honor! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed Ukraine's draft law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement (the Ukrainian Municipal Infrastructure Development Programme) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the bill as a whole. As a result of the ratification of this Financial Agreement, the Bank, the European Investment Bank, will lend 400 million euros to Ukraine and will finance state infrastructure projects in Ukraine's medium and large cities. The main focus of such projects is to protect the restoration and prevention of deterioration of municipal facilities by improving their energy efficiency, heating, water supply, and street lighting. In accordance with the Explanatory Note signed by the First Deputy Minister of Regional Development of Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Viacheslav Negad, which was received by the Committee, the implementation of the provisions of the said Financial Agreement provides for additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine to repay the principal amount of the loan and in the event of repayment of the debt by fixed interest payments. The main scientific and expert management considers it possible to ratify this agreement. The Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption determined that the bill was compatible with the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. This financial agreement, we think, is particularly important for Ukraine, because it is primarily about centralized heating, energy efficiency and administrative buildings, and urban lighting at municipal level. In this way these costs will contribute, we hope, to Ukraine's energy security to reduce water consumption, improve services from solid waste management, and to the safety and quality of utilities. I ask my colleagues to support the committee's decision in foreign matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this important issue? Vote? Vote. Please, colleagues, please take your seats. Is there a need? No, well, you've shown that. Well, let's do two for, two for, two for, what do you do, if you want, there's a rule, please. Andrew Shipko, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Borisovic, distinguished colleagues, I think that this ratification must be supported because the issue is very important, and issues are aimed at the development of local self-government. What's the big deal about street lighting? Nado. Energy savings need to be developed? Nado. It's the repair of the driveways, the repair of the roof, and the water supply. I'm a representative of the Nicopolski region, and I'll tell you, there's an area on the shore of the Kakhov reservoir, people see water, and 60 percent of the Nicosia area has no water supply. We will therefore support this ratification and we want everyone to support it. Thank you very much. Colleagues, this is a good thing, let's support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u39	Please, Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u40	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! It was Vladimir Borisovich that you were talking about, in your speech, that today the housing and utility sector is getting serious investments. Let's face it, we've actually adopted a series of legislative provisions, starting with the features of self-governance in multiple apartment buildings. Yesterday we passed the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, and today this agreement allows, apart from budgetary funding, to include serious non-budgetary funding in the housing and utility sectors. This is in addition to modernizing buildings and seriously being able to carry out energy conservation measures -- these are serious investments in the economic sector and in the field of creating a new housing and utility market in our country, which today is not actually there. I therefore appeal to all Parliamentary colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Medunica National Deputy, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u42	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Dear colleagues! Dear government officials! Indeed, the People's Front faction, like most, I think my colleagues in this room will support this bill. I would like to point out that we already have a successful experience of working with this financial European institution, particularly in the Mikolaiwi region, the Mikolaiwiska Vodkanal has already concluded such a deal. And at the expense of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it's going to reconstruct its own pipelines. I would ask government officials to expand the list of activities that might be financed under similar agreements. I think this is where we need to include, including, the financing of capital work, and the current repair of road cover. And so I urge the mayors of cities, the leaders of local communities, to take an active part in the development of projects and, accordingly, in the signing of agreements under this project. And I also urge my fellow MPs to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u43	National MP Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u44	Matvienkov, 57 district. Thank you very much. Of course, our faction will support this resolution, because we are well aware that utilities are one of the most well-launched economies to date. And its effectiveness depends largely on what the cost of utilities will be and how people will feel about it. That's why we're in favour. But I would like to go back a little bit to the topic that we discussed with regard to the financing of local authorities. Vladimir Borisovich, in order for you to understand us correctly, we are for decentralization with two hands. We are bright supporters, we are definitely against how this was done. You're going to take an experimental measure, please, and look, you know what it's not right to think of as a profit today, at least. You have to count the cost, you have to look at the prices, you have to look at what they put on local councils today. So a convincing request, really, to you, as we said, invite one of the mayors to sit down, take it, think it doesn't have to be so painful to react, you have to make the mistake of correcting our task if we find the right way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u45	Thank you for your comment. I get it all right. I just read the information from Mariupola's website. It's just eloquent. As for mayors, I will communicate with them and enjoy associating with the new mayor of Mariupol not to criticize him, but to help, if there is a question, there, the right distribution, or the right administration. I can tell you that I have several applied cities where I see all the dynamics and I understand: expenses and revenue. And today I can say that both revenue and expenditure are balanced as tools, the only problem with PTU here is you're right. But tomorrow we have one of the first issues with you on Thursday to resolve the problems of CTU, finance, and we're going to get rid of the issue. We're going to have to ask you a question about the pay pass, transport here, too, very professionally, and the situation will be settled. Please, National Deputy Rosenblatt, one minute. And then Igor Nasalik, a minute and Alona Babak. Three speakers and we'll vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u46	Good afternoon, fellow believers, we should all really support this determination. But I want to point out that last year we also supported our spending decisions: energy efficiency, modernization and all, about 1 billion 300, if you remember -- 800 million and 500 million. According to my information, 45 percent of these funds remained unused. Why? Because there are many questions that are now related to regulatory policy, all of them. Why has this been the case today? Recently, the Honourable Deputy Prime Minister declared it. That's a billion dollars we use, practically, insolvent subsidies for services of the LHC. And I just want to ask you, when, really, we're going to have a massive energy-efficient revolution when we start, really, to do jobs, and we're going to give Ukraine the opportunity, not just from Russian gas, to stop its dependence, but from all the gas that's around the world. Already many countries have stopped using gas at all. So I want these funds to be used in a transparent way to run tenders, and we've probably seen how the energy starts in Ukraine. Energy efficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u47	Please, Igor Nasalik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u48	Praise Jesus Christ, dear friends! Well, first of all, I'd like to say and thank the budget committee that made 600 million dollars for CTU yesterday, and actually, to support Vladimir Borisovich if the issue of CTU is removed from the cities. The second question. 8 years working as a city head, he has to say that the city's infrastructure needs investment in all cities, well, maybe except for Winnica, because Vladimir Borisovich was involved in it. On the other hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u49	But before becoming Head of the Supreme Council, please, and Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u50	Yes, of course! I have to tell you today, I have to tell you, the numbers that water and water loss in some places are 60 to 70 percent that lie, directly, on no one else, and on the population. Similarly, in the heat field. Of 24 percent or 26, infrastructure projects are not possible. So I'm asking everyone to support low-priced loans for almost 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u51	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats. An extremely important law on ratification. Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction certainly supports any investment in the infrastructure of cities and the Ukrainian population. But we're concerned that we don't see proposals from the government today to develop loans in the internal market of Ukraine through tools for issuing corporate bonds to utilities. You and I work on long-term loans on international loans. We're needed. We need to start thinking about domestic borrowing and the development of this market. So we're looking to the government as soon as possible to offer guarantees to Ukrainian investors that could buy corporate bonds from municipal enterprises that would issue their bonds to finance the development of urban infrastructure. We need to think about the internal investment in the context of pension reform and the accumulation of pension funds, otherwise there will be no place to manage the funds in our pension funds if it is in the hands of international financial institutions. And all the money for perspectives.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u53	Please. Thank you. Please give me a minute, Hennaday Zubko. Take your seats, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, once again, I remind you of the possibilities of this financial agreement: energy efficiency, modernization of utilities, water supply, lighting and waste management, is the largest broad list that covers virtually all issues. Municipalities are involved in utilities for the modernization and replacement of networks, the merger of coowners of houses takes the cost of upgrading buildings, and today the municipal community joins the lighting and well - being of the instigating territories. One of the important issues of energy efficiency, the priority of the State Regional Development Fund today is 3 billion, 1 billion to change the infrastructure situation in the united territorial communities, is also the priority of energy efficiency, the 700 million that the government has set aside to involve an internal investor and invest in energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u55	Thank you, Hennady Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, 0075, and I thank you for your understanding and support. I think that the large-scale program of capital repairs in Ukraine, where we can replace all the pipes, boilers, warm houses, repair roads, reconstruct cultural buildings and libraries, all of this is a crazy potential for the economic development of small and medium-sized businesses. It's not going to be the oligarchs in this question, it's going to be in every city, in every village, people are going to have a job, and it's going to increase the quality of life. Colleagues, 0075, are a proposal to adopt in general: a draft law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement (the Ukrainian Municipal Infrastructure Development Programme) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Ready to vote? Please vote, and please support me as a whole, colleagues. All colleagues are national deputies, please support. Please vote. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:07:25]] For 261 The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, one minute. Please remain in your seats. 3855 is a draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call. This is where all the registered laws and regulations of all groups and factions came in: BPP, People's Front, Radical Party, People's Will, Rebirth, Opposition Block, Self-help, non-fractional. Here's a suggestion: To approve this order as a whole according to my previous proposal. I'd like a vote, please. Everything that's registered for this. And according to my offer. Vote? Please be supportive. Please vote. Colleagues, please vote. We're voting 3855 as a whole. Vote. We vote, it's a real vote, we vote. Vote! But this is a technical question of our work with you, colleagues, well, what can we talk about?Oh, my God! [[11:08:46]] For 216 Again, colleagues, please. We need to confirm the order of the day of the fourth session. These are all laws that are registered for the moment, all of them. Please vote according to my offer, which I spoke under the transcript. Ready? Please vote, please support, colleagues, vote, vote, please support everyone. Colleagues, this is a technical decision absolutely. [[11:09:25]] For 225 That's better. Once again, colleagues, offer, please approve, vote. Please confirm, colleagues, we vote. But we vote yes, well, I work without it. I'd like you to confirm, colleagues. Vote. [[11:09:46]] For 217 Again, colleagues. In order for us to start working, in order to continue our work, we need to establish the order of the day session of the fourth call, the fourth session. To that end, we need to take a decision, this decree includes all the bills that are registered at the time of the decision. Vote, please support this proposal. Stop. You will be determined when the laws are ready on the committees, in Parliament you will be determined with this, which you will vote for, which you will not. Please support, colleagues, please come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. 3855, approval of the Order of the Day of the Fourth Session, including all the laws currently included, registered. Vote, everyone, please. Vote, colleagues, please support everyone, vote. [[11:11:19]] For 241 You got it. You got it. Now, colleagues, here's the next one. Formed order of the day according to my proposal, which I announced under the transcript. Next, be determined by the laws for which to vote, which you do not. But you've given the opportunity to plan plenary weeks and plan committee work, and it's not clear. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Thank you all for your understanding and support. 0071 is a draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation (2011, 2012 and 2013), the project "Maintenance of natural and orderly territories in Ukraine". Reported by Vronska Hanna Alexandrovna, Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources. Please, the proposal is for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please support the offer. [[11:12:23]] For-188. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation and the project "Maintenance of Natural and Ordered Areas in Ukraine" prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and approved at the meeting of the government. In April 15th, the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation was signed in Kiev. In accordance with the Intergovernmental Agreement, Germany provides Ukraine with an irreversible financial grant to support environmental, environmental, scientific and management activities. The project is primarily funded by the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve, the natural reserve of Gorgana, the National Natural Reserves of Sinevre, Vižnice, Gutzulščina, Karpatski and Yavorowski. The draft law is drafted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts for the purpose of ratifying the agreement. The ratification of an intergovernmental agreement will allow German funds to be involved in the development of a system of conservation, conservation, reproduction, and continued use of natural complexes and conservation sites. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u57	Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak, please report from the committee, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u58	Honorary Presidium, Government and the Supreme Council, you are invited to consider ratifying the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, which envisions a financial grant of up to 14 million euros. The project envisaged by this agreement is aimed at building infrastructure objects in conservation areas, developing a management system, preserving biodiversity and effective tools for developing a system of environmental management, and applying the experience of European countries, such as Germany. The European Integration Committee, at its meeting, reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now deal with this matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we will now deal with this matter. We're now discussing the issue, we're going to vote on it, we're going to deal with another. [[B in m in s a l in]] 241. 241. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please two in favour, two in front of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u60	Mikola Froll, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u61	I give the floor to Deputy Rybaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, why when the issue of ecology is discussed in Parliament, there is always someone blocking the rostrum, something else. Let's just not talk about environmental issues that are important to the state, please. I would like to urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill as well as a number of bills that are now registered in Parliament and need urgent consideration here under the dome. Today, we have many issues related to the conservation sector, waste management (2950), which for the fourth week of the plenary has been on the agenda but is not being considered in this room. Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to address you personally, you promised us that we would have an environmental day in Parliament. I ask you to keep that word and yet this day will be spent. And I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u64	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, clearly a positive bill, which allows us to ratify the Treaty with the German Government, which has shown a desire to allocate 14 million euros to Ukraine for conservation measures in our naturally protected areas. I would like to point out that Germans understand the problem of the ecosystem of Ukraine better than we do and they understand that Ukraine is part of Europe and the only ecosystem. Look at what we did in the 2016 budget: we have allocated only 142 million dollars of which only 300,000 dollars — think about it! - to capital investments after the restoration of natural reserves and to improve their material base. Instead, the German Government is ready to allocate nearly 380 million to this effort. I understand that this support for the environment in Ukraine and our reserves, which today, by the way, we have 20 reserves, 43 national parks, four biosphere reserves and almost 200 natural orders, so weak support for the state because we don't have a minister of ecology. Because the first deputy is involved in the corruption of the theft of Kyoto money and no one thinks about nature but about the theft of environmental funds. That's why I urge Parliament to identify itself with the government as quickly as possible, with the government coalition and appoint ministers, because that's not how we're going to save our ecology. We cannot order the collection of solid household waste, and the country becomes a garbage dump. Today, there are three bills in the Supreme Council that plan to introduce a new system of solid waste collection and, above all, waste disposal. Please join us all in discussing and supporting these bills. We will preserve nature for our future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Are there any others who would like to speak on this issue? None. Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'd like the deputies to come into the hall from the towers. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u66	Colleagues, he's the National Deputy of Suslov, all of it. Let's do this, colleagues, please take your seats, now we'll deal with this, calm down. Now we're going to get to the bottom of this. Calm down, he's Suslova in the hall. What are you starting? He's Suslova in the hall. What are you talking about? Okay, come on, we'll deal with it on the regulatory committee. Colleagues, take your seats. Look, what are we looking at right now? We are currently considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation, the signing in 2011, 2012, 2013 of a project on support for natural-use areas in Ukraine. Please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall, an important project. All right, colleagues, please take your seats. Take your seats! [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues, please take your seats! 0071 is the draft Law on Ratification, Alert Voting. Please support in general, between Ukraine and Germany. Take your seats, just as the national deputy of Suslov testified that she supported 3855, all of it. Take your seats, please. Please take your seats! Voting. All right, take your seats! [[B in m in s a l in]] I've set up her presence. Colleagues, 0037 for. In general, it's a signal vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Take your seats, an important question! Look, there's got to be a racetrack around here that's gonna need a break so they can run around. Vote, signal, as a whole. [[11:24:39]] For 246 Thank you for your support. In general, we vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:24:57]] For 253 The decision has been made. Let's move on. 0076 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the granting of a loan under the conditions of related assistance. Deputy Finance Minister Chevalov Artem Valentinovich. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. Short-term review, ratification. [[11:25:30.]] For 184 Decision taken. Please, Artem Valentinovich Chevalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed for ratification of the Ukrainian Act on the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Poland on the granting of a loan under the terms of the related aid. This is about granting the Polish government a loan of up to 100 million euros, which will be received by the Ukrainian government in a person of the Ministry of Finance for the provision of border infrastructure on the Ukrainian-Polish border. This is a project that now has the working name "Kordon Connection", which will redesign border crossing points at the Ukrainian-Polish border, as well as the repair and installation of the roads to the appropriate crossing points for the purpose of creating a fully European modern border between Ukraine and Poland. As I said, the size of the loan, up to 100 million euros, the term of credit, up to 30 years with a suspension of payments over the first five years. Up to 60 percent of the loan is expected to be a component of Polish origin. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u68	Thank you. Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak is the committee's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the loan to be ratified by this draft law is worth up to 100 million, which is provided by the Government of the Republic of Poland to finance projects from the construction of the border road infrastructure, to arrange entry points for the Ukrainian-Polish border and other projects by agreed parties in accordance with the contract signed in September 2015. The European Integration Committee, at its meeting, reviewed the draft law and recommended that the Supreme Council ratify the treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u70	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need to discuss? None. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u71	Vote, I hear the offer. Colleagues, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the granting of a loan under the conditions of aid, 0076. There's an offer: to accept it as a whole. Ready? Please support 0076 as a whole. We vote, we vote, we vote. [[11:28:49]] For 242 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. 0077 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Commission. Please have the rapporteur's proposal: a reduced procedure to consider the draft law. Please specify: consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. Short-term procedure. [[11:29:21]] For 180. Please report to Vjačeslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u72	I'm asking the apparatus to set up slides for the report. Please set up slides.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, we have prepared several slides for greater visibility. Therefore, anyone interested in the subject may observe them. So the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Eurocommission "Creative Europe" is proposed. This is a European Union programme aimed at supporting the cultural, creative and audiovisual sectors. The current phase of the programme is planned by 2020. Participants are EU countries and candidates for EU accession, as well as countries with which framework agreements have been concluded. The budget for this program is about one and a half billion euros. And since the ratification and formulation of all necessary procedures, Ukraine will also participate in the distribution of this budget. The main objective is the development of the Ukrainian cultural sector, the promotion of the competitiveness of Ukrainian cultural product, promotion and protection of cultural and linguistic diversity in Ukraine, and consequently the full integration of Ukraine into European space. The amount of the contribution to this, 2016, year is agreed during the discussion and consultations prior to the signing of the agreement, which was signed here in Ukraine on 19 November, and the European Commissioner for Education, Culture and Science has arrived for the first time. The contribution for 2016 is only EUR 1. The following will determine the individual amounts for each year. Ukraine can participate in four - way cultural cooperation programs. It's in collaboration with projects from 3 to 10 countries, and the sum of each project from 100,000 euros to 2 million euros. All these programmes will now become available to Ukraine after the ratification, and on January 21st, the representative of Ukraine officially participated in the board of the Creative Europe programme. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u74	Thank you. Please report by Oksana Jurinec, head of the subcommittee on European integration. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u75	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs. The draft is designed for the purpose of ratifying the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Commission on Ukraine's participation in the Creative Europe programme, the European Union programme for the cultural and creativity sector and on cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the Media programme. The Creative Europe programme was launched on 19 November 2015 in Kiev. The objective of the agreement is to recognise the conditions of Ukraine's participation in the "Creative Europe" programme. According to the explanatory note, the implementation of the Ukrainian Law will not require additional expenditure from the State Budget, as it will take place within the limits of the allocations foreseen for the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture for the corresponding year. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the ratification of the agreement. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration at its meeting on 28 January 2016 discussed the proposed draft law. National members of the committee decided to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommend that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need? Is it? Come on, two for, two for against, please, if you have one. Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u77	To seriously justify the need to adopt this bill, please pass the word to Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u78	Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u79	We should vote and support this project. The only thing I'm going to say is that this is not the achievement of Mr. Minister, there is no relation to this project that has yet been proposed and proposed by creative Europe in the past by Kabmin. That's why you're guilty of delaying the process and signing this document for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u80	Next, Mikhailo Bondar? Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u81	Thank you. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of this bill. And it calls on everyone in the room to vote for it, because this is not the first serious step in integrating Ukraine into European programmes, including those that financially support our beginnings with European integration. So we urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to go to the government right now. During the discussion of this bill and the ratification of this agreement on our committee, we also asked the government to give both the Committee and the Supreme Council of Ukraine that priority plan for implementing this programme. Because at one time, I remember when we discussed on the committee the implementation of the population information program about the European Union, among those plans that had been approved by previous governments were the performances of the spiritual orchestras as if it were also information about the European Union and its values. It's very important that we not only ratify this agreement, but that really the plans and directions of this program correspond to the contents and to the name. That's why we're waiting for you now, we're going to ratify, but to give us your plans. And in a year we could report, you could report to us what was done in this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. One minute, Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko. Take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, we are grateful to all the deputies and all the committees that have supported the ratification of this bill. I have to report that we are about to announce a competition open for the head of the National Bureau. And so all of the projects that will be implemented in Creative Europe will be determined by the National Bureau, which will be fully made up of the public. There is no doubt that Parliament, as a legislative body, will also influence these processes. And what I'm saying is that this is the participation of the current team of the Ministry that this minister and this particular team of the Ministry of Culture deserve. Unfortunately, I've inherited the Creative Europe program in a completely decommissioned state, and 40 percent of the entire text of the agreement has had to be processed in close collaboration with colleagues from the Foreign Ministry. And it was this minister on November 19 of this year that, for the first time in the history of our relationship with the European Union, the European Commissioner came personally to sign this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. 0077 is an extremely important decision, draft law, more specifically, on ratification. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Commission on Ukraine's participation in the Creative Europe programme: the European Union Programme for the Culture and Creativity Sector, and on cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the Media sub-programme of the Creative Europe programme. Dear colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! 0077 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, 0077 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Commission. Ready to vote? Please, it's a signal in general. Please vote. 0077. It's an emergency. [[11:40:19]] For 224 Colleagues, and now I would ask very carefully, it was a signal vote, it was a signal vote. I ask for your support in general, and I ask you to vote. It was a rating vote. Please vote. Vote. [[11:40:47]] For 244 Thank you. Dear colleagues. One minute of information. After we approved the draft Order approving the agenda of this session in 241 votes, we moved on to the next issue of the agenda. During the next day’s consideration of the issue of order, the National MP Lechchenko approached me and said that there had been an unpersonal vote by the National Deputy Suslow. After a while, I don't know, three minutes, five minutes later, the National MP of Suslov came forward and testified that she was in favour of the 3855 decision, the approval. Since the situation is ambiguous, there is a statement by the deputies, I ask the regulatory committee to consider this issue urgently and to make proposals for further action in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. 0073. Mustafa Najem, one minute. One minute, Mustafa Najem, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u88	Vladimir Borisovich, let's not make fun of each other. True, I have great respect for you and our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u89	And it's mutual.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u90	We voted 30 times. We've definitely seen voices falsify in the hall. We know exactly what duplicate cards are, we've seen them vote in different sectors. We can tease each other, tell them that the regulatory committee will make a decision, but the agenda is currently under consideration. Let us treat one another with respect. We have a statement, according to article 47, let's do a simple thing, vote and move on. Moreover, you know the reason for this is because we don't want to vote. You're really pushing for a bill that goes against logic, democracy, what we've been fighting for before. Let's draft a bill, vote on the agenda, move on to work. Why are we having this circus?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u91	Highly esteemed colleagues of the national MPs, it's about the approval of the day's order. And I, too, have great respect for you, fellow members of the national parliament. Apparently, it was 241 votes, of which, "Block of Peter Poshenko" is 90, "National Front" is 55, "Block of Opposition" is 22, "Help Self-Help" is 20, "Rebirth" is 7, "Radical Party of Oleg Lachka" is 17, "Will of the People" is 11, "Fathership" is 9 and "non-factional" is 10. So this is about what you've set up, so in order to comply with the law, I'm immediately referring this issue to the regulatory committee, so let him consider and make a proposal. Now, now, now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, come on, let's move on. 0078 is a draft law on ratification of the Protocol. [[B in m in s a l in]] 0078 is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Register of Disposal and Transfer of Pollutants. 0078. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. 0078. Excuse me, 0073 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the activities of border officials. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure, to consider the draft regulation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! And once again, I'm going to make this reference. I'm going to make this appeal to the regulatory committee right now, but we've just reached agreement with Mustafa Najem, and I'm going to make a proposal for a return to the results. to the vote on the return to this issue, 3855. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to point out who supports the proposal to vote, who supports the proposal to vote on the draft decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] 0073, please, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the activities of border officials. There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Take your seats. Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Committee on European Integration, I want to address the Eurooptimists. Dear Europeans, we support the full need for a personal vote. But I ask you very much if you would like to be more holy to the Pope of Rome, please also come to work, including the committees, so that we can have Rules on our committees, including with the participation of the Eurooptimists. And I turn from the Committee on European Integration to the Head of the Supreme Council every day to announce a list of those deputies who are not at work to see who is, who is not. It wasn't the ones who came up to the rostrum for five minutes and then disappeared. We sit like this, we sit from 10 to 18 and we sit on committees too. And from our committee, I'm asking you to publish the names of all those who don't go to committees and break down their quorum, because there's a lot of Eurooptimists. And our work isn't just in the hall, it's on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with great respect and respect for every national MP, I demand the same reverential respect. Please, 0073, under summary procedure, please support. Vote. [[11:48:42]] For-151 Please report. Servatuk. First Deputy Head of State Border Service Cervatjuk Vasil Mikolaiovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Please report from the government's bed. Do we have a foreigner? [[B in m in s a l in]] Do we have a deputy head of the foreign service? First Deputy Foreign Service Manager? 0073. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, dear colleagues, Igor Goose. Igor Volodymyrovich, please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] After considering the matter, I will give my word. Please, Igor Gus. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u94	Vladimir Borisovich, let's somehow unlock the work of the rostrum and the parliament, then we'll report it because it's an abnormal situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u95	One minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, let's look at the list of bills. The laws on ratification are extremely important. [[B in m in s a l in]] The ratification of treaties is once. The other one. I've got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] You see, democracy is what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u97	[[From the Hall]] Oleg, you fought Yanukovic yourself, and you're doing the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u98	You see what democracy is like in Najem: when he speaks, he acts, no one bothers him. When we try to say -- they don't give a word, that's democracy. Now I have a question: why didn't you block the rostrum when you were doing anti-constitutional changes to the Rules? Why didn't you block the rostrum when you were doing anti-constitutional changes to the Constitution? Why did you vote for them? You vote for anti-constitutional laws, then it's normal. When we ask you to work, you block the rostrum. I have a request to Parliament: let's not make fun of the people, let's work. Whoever's breaking the law, get a mandate, go play. I want to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u99	Thank you. Exchanged thoughts, yes, very emotionally. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u100	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u101	30 seconds, finish. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it. Dear colleagues of the National MPs, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I announce a 30 - minute recess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u102	Hello, colleagues, please take your seats. We're continuing our work. Colleagues, we're taking our seats. I don't think emotion is the best guide on one or the other. Now we're here, we're here, we're here to talk, and I think we're dealing with the issue as follows: I'm giving the task to the regulatory committee right now to consider the statement made by the National Deputies regarding the fact that there's a non-personal vote. Please consider this matter immediately, find out all the circumstances, and make suggestions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the aim of voting again tomorrow from 10 to 11 o’clock. On all matters, we understood. And I don't think there'll be any warnings about that. Please, Paul Pinzenik, a minute, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Rules has repeatedly drawn the attention of the Supreme Council and the Presidency of the Supreme Council to the fact that the powers involved in determining the circumstances of the nonpersonal vote The Rules rely on the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please give an appropriate commission to the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have this permanent organ, this is its direct competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u104	Please consider and make suggestions to the Committee on Counting and Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to do it as soon as possible. And from the point of view of voting, tomorrow we will return to that question and vote again. Let's move on. 0073. Please, once again, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure. Is there a reporter yet? Please, Servatuk Vasil Mikolaiovich. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u105	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! In May last year, an agreement was signed between the governments of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on the activities of the border authorities. The agreement provides for the establishment of an institute of border authorities in the Ukrainian-Belarus region of the state border. The agreement also sets out the arrangements for cooperation between the border authorities of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus, including the arrangements for meetings, joint hearings, investigations, information exchange, and so forth. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, the deal needs ratification. For the purpose of ratifying the agreement, the Ukrainian State Border Service Administration has drafted an appropriate bill. The bill agreed without notice with all interested central executive authorities. The government order of December 9, last year, decided to make a deal before the ratification. On January 27 of this year, the bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Information has been received from the Belarusian side today regarding the completion of the internal procedure. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u106	Thank you. Please take your seats Please report, Igor Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u107	Good afternoon. Dear friends, it's an important decision. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 27 January this year, reviewed the Cabinet's draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the activities of the Border Commissioners and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the project and ratify the agreement. The scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council's apparatus is supporting. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption is also supportive. So please support this decision unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the draft Law on Ratification as a whole. There will now be a signal vote, I ask everyone to support this bill. Please notify for ratification, please support, 0073 [[12:51:33]] For 186 Dear colleagues, please take your seats, your distinguished colleagues, your national deputies. Please, colleagues, we are taking places to vote in favour of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the activities of border officials. Let's have a signal vote, everyone, please support, colleagues, ratification. 0073, emergency. Vote. [[12:52:40]] For 212 The MPs are coming along, I see. I see MPs are good. Please. Again, signal vote, ratification, 0073. I'd like to vote on my colleagues. Vote. Let's all vote. [[12:53:18]] For 222 I see. What do we vote on? Ready? Please, 0073 in total. Please vote. Vote. 0073. Vote. Please be supportive. In general. [[12:53:51]] For 233 The law has been ratified. Thank you. The law's been passed. Ratification. It's about ratification. 0078 is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol on Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers. The Minister of Ecology is Vronska. Please have a brief motion to vote. Please be supportive. We need 150 votes, that's a procedural decision. Please vote. Vote. [[12:54:29]] For 177 Decisions have been made. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u109	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, another ratification bill prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is proposed to your attention. This is about ratifying the Protocol on Pollutant Release Registers and Transfer. This is a very important protocol for environmental protection. It was signed, in fact, in Kiev as early as 2003, during a conference of Ministers for Europe. By the beginning of this year, it had been ratified by nearly 38 countries. Ukraine is one of the few countries that has not yet ratified this protocol. And it should be noted that in international documents this protocol is called the Kiev protocol, so it is now very appropriate to ratify it right now. The draft Protocol Ratification Act has been developed by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The purpose of the bill is to ratify the Protocol on Pollutant Release Registers and Transfer. The register will include data on potentially dangerous chemicals and pollutants that are thrown into the atmosphere, dumped into the soil, water, or transported from the premises of enterprises for processing or disposal. We agreed to a bill with all the ministries. The official translation was legalized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to point out that last year there was a meeting, the fourth meeting of the parties to the International Aarhus Convention, where all the other parties to the convention called on Ukraine to ratify the protocol and implement it. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u110	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u111	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please support this very important draft of the Ratification of the Protocol on Pollutant Release Registers and Transfer. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered and recommended unanimously to the Supreme Council to approve and support this bill as a whole. The specified protocol is a tool for the UN Economic Commission for Europe Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters. The so - called Aarhus Convention was ratified by the Supreme Council on July 6, 1999. As a result of the ratification and further implementation of the protocol, the public will have greater access to electronic, national and pollution registers, which will contribute to public participation in the adoption of environmental decisions. The protocol also identifies the main elements of the emissions register system and the transfer of pollutants, the order in which the records were collected and stored. So please support this important document and vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Do you want to talk about it? Yes. Yes, please sign up: two for, two against. Please two for, two for against. Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u113	Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front. The People's Front will definitely support the ratification of this agreement. But as my colleague reminded me, I am once again calling on all the structures to investigate and punish all the guilty who forged the Kyoto money tender so that all these people would be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u114	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, a truly important agreement that enables transparency to control, including the public, environmental processes. So we ask very much for support and the Self-Help faction will also support the ratification of this protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u116	Vladimir Litwin, "The will of the people," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u117	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, obviously have no questions about whether or not to support this legislative proposal that we are currently considering. At the same time, I would like to support one of the previous speakers who spoke about the Kyoto Protocol. If the Ministry of Profitability, which is beheaded and has no minister, had reported on the results of investigations into the theft of money under the Kyoto Protocol. Because we make decisions, money comes in, and they're still being actively ripped apart. I understand that the mood of temporaryity, I realize that today's executive power is in our midst, but I would like to support the proposal that, on Friday, "the hour of questions to the government" be given comprehensive information from the Ministry, as well as from the Ministry of Interior or the Henprocuratorium that investigates the case. In what state of investigation, who is responsible for naming specific names? And what has been done to ensure that these costs are reimbursed to the State? Because it is not just the internal problem but what is happening is the humiliation of Ukraine and the loss of the authority of Ukraine in the international arena. We're not going to be trusted when the money coming to Ukraine is being stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u118	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko and we move on to the vote. Mr. Mikolo, one second, I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall, and we'll have a vote in a minute. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, a very responsible agreement, we support it and the committee supports it, although it would normally be desirable for the committee to consider it, as some of us have not entered into a deal since 2004. But, as it turned out, ten days later she was put on ratification. It seems to me that such serious responsible documents must be considered by the profiling committees. Why are they responsible? Because if, here, I think everyone read this agreement, especially the accessories to it. And you'll see how many classifications the number of classifications will need to be entered into the register. For example, there will be a massacre in the village, or a carnage, where 10 people will work and how they pollute the air, will have to enter into this agreement. So I think we need to think about the execution mechanism, think about how to restore rights to an environmental inspection that can't verify it, so who's going to write how much pollution there is? And most importantly, think about getting us back in control of the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u120	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u121	To get us back in the state administration system, Mr. Andrew and my colleagues, I'm going after the disposal. Now we're talking about the better ministers, European, American and many American, European ministers for the Americas or European businessmen, and they're not paying any taxes. We don't pay recycling taxes for a year, or Pepsi Coke, or Coke, or poor organizations. So the local communities don't have the money to do the disposal, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Protocol on the Register of Disposal and Transfer of Pollutants, 0078. Signal vote, colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[13:03:24]] For 204 Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, and I'm asking the MPs who are now in the towers to come into the hall and take jobs. There is no political debate on ratification, it is simply necessary for the MPs to work. Colleagues, please come into the hall and call your colleagues for factions. And the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform us what's going on. Colleagues, I'm re-voting, 0078. Signal vote, ratification of an important agreement. Please vote. [[13:04:26]] For 212 Colleagues. I'll wait a minute and ask a fellow MP to come to the hall. Please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat again of what is going on. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, I was telling you at the head meeting that the big problem is when there's buttons. But the biggest problem with this House is that there are no deputies in the workplace. This puts a huge number of conceptual issues at risk. And we need to give the same legislative initiative that would have an impact on the MPs so that they can go to work and do their duty. This is a shame to Parliamentarianism when there are no deputies in the workplace. And there has to be a mechanism of influence on MPs, and I'm going to propose this mechanism legislatively. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. I'm putting the signal vote back to 0078. Please, the 0078 vote. [[13:06:20]] For 222 Three more men coming in, please come in. Comrade Maxim. Come into the hall, take your jobs. Ready? Did you take all the jobs? Vladya! Lord, take the job so we can vote. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Register of Pollutants and Transfers, No. 0078. Please vote in favour of this Law as a whole. Please vote and please support, Your Honor, 0078, as a whole. Vote. [[13:07:27]] For 233 Decision taken. Colleagues, please stay in the workplace, keep working. The next bill is the draft Law 0079, the draft Law on the Adoption of the Protocol to Amend the TRIPS Agreement, the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. 0079 – summary procedure. Please vote, please support. [[13:08:08]] For 181 Decision taken. In the hall discipline is restored, order restored in the hall. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Mikolska Natalya Jaroslavna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we present for your consideration a bill tabled by the President of Ukraine that provides for the adoption by Ukraine of a protocol amending the TRIPS World Trade Organization Agreement (Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights). Agreements that deal with the commercial aspects of intellectual property and give consent to its obligations for Ukraine. In short, the essence of the protocol is the following. Medical devices that are subject to copyright, as well as any such object, have their own copyrights that can regulate their use. But quite often and now we have this situation possible when epidemics occur in a country of certain dangerous patients and the owner of the right to these drugs does not allow them to be used. In this case, due to the high social significance of some medicines, the worldwide procedure is known as compulsory licensing when it is allowed to produce drugs without permission by the copyright holder only to overcome the unusual situation in the country. Also, in an epidemic country, it can be simple. do not have the capacity, in fact, to produce such drugs or technology to meet the needs of the State in such drugs. In such a situation, the only solution is to seek help from other countries. It was in order to solve these problems that a protocol was developed that made the necessary changes to the relevant WTO agreements. By adopting a bill, we, the world’s and the country’s health systems, receive additional tools to combat dangerous diseases and create additional opportunities for our manufacturers, and we will be able to shape our image as a reliable and predictable trading partner of the World Trade Organization. We ask you to support this bill, even though it is a technical issue, but it is being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u124	Are you done? Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u125	Its introduction can be a vital step toward ensuring the safety of our citizens and the non - spread of the epidemic around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u126	Thank you. The committee head, Hupko Hanna Mikolayevna, is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u127	Good afternoon, colleagues! Further to what Natalia Mikolska has just said, this is really a very important protocol that needs to be ratified to provide Ukrainian citizens with drugs, especially during the epidemic period. I want to say that last year our Parliament also adopted in a difficult fight, but very important laws, such as the purchase of drugs through international organizations. And this was a necessary step to combat corruption both in the Ministry of Health and in the government. And that's why it's also important for us this year, despite this bill that we're about to ratify, that: (a) the purchase of medicines through all state programs through international organizations should take place in a timely manner; that tenders should also be carried out in a timely manner so that all patients in Ukraine with different diseases (oncological, hemophilia, hepatitis, tuberculosis) are not disrupted by programs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 27 January, discussed the draft tabled by the President of Ukraine on the adoption of the Protocol to the TRIPS Agreement, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it adopt the Protocol to the TRIPS Agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Colleagues, do we need to discuss or vote? Vote. Please, colleagues. There's a need, isn't there? Okay. Please two for, two for against. Please sign in: two for, two against. Natalia Wesselova, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, Ukraine has long been a party to the International Agreement on Trade Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. There is a definition of a compulsory license in the laws of Ukraine that are in force. What does that mean? This means that a national pharmaceutical producer is entitled by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the event of an emergency announcement, such as an epidemic, to provide health care, including, I would stress, for non-commercial purposes, the owner of the patent may produce the necessary medical supplies without a decision or permission. And all of this already exists in the current legislation of Ukraine. By this protocol, we confirm that Ukraine is becoming a party to this protocol, and the same can be done in relation to other countries that are parties to this international agreement, and this may be when the country does not have the necessary number of production rules for its own production or are insufficient. That is why it is extremely important and I ask you to support this and vote in favour of ratifying this protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Silantieus gives the Galasjuk a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u132	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow national MPs, the Radical Party faction supports the ratification of this treaty. But at the same time, I want to emphasize that we have to take care of the country's pharmaceutical sector just as much as any sector that creates a high added value. So I want to go to the government and I want to ask. Why is there no part of the Coalition Agreement, which is called "accelerated economic development", which includes absolutely specific prescriptions for setting conditions for a Ukrainian producer, which are not worse, but better than our competitors in Poland, Turkey, Slovakia. And when I talk about such conditions, I'm talking about tax terms, including terms of intellectual property protection, including conditions of support for Ukrainian science, which is the basis for such industries as the pharmaceutical industry. And I'm talking about the creation of an expert credit agency against which the head of the National Bank of Honduras has defamed completely and unprofessionally. So we have to take care of our own domestic producer, who creates a high added value that doesn't just export there, or grain, or metal scrap, or some raw materials, but that exports high-value products, machine-building, pharmaceuticals, other types of industry that still exist in Ukraine. So I want to point out that the Radical Party faction will not allow the Ukrainian industry to be destroyed, and we will adopt all the laws that support the domestic producer, then the prices will be stable, then a person can come and buy medicine at normal prices in the pharmacy, because when they are produced in Ukraine and not bound to a dollar that is not controlled by the National Bank, then there will be normal prices and the normal welfare of citizens. So in terms of industry, we care about every citizen of Ukraine, about every citizen's pocket, and it's true prosperity and European.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Dmitry Dove, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u134	I give the floor to Deputy Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! In fact, I support this law, and it is indeed very important, including medicine and pharmaceuticals. However, I would like to say that we really need to remember that we have a powerful domestic pharmaceutical industry. When he reports to us Minhrav as a huge achievement that we have received 5,000 400 doses of Tamiflu from Lithuania, and at that time, according to the data I have received, we have 240,000 doses at warehouses in Ukraine, of which 105,000 doses have expired. That is, the State has purchased drugs, the drug has not been used, public funds have actually been dropped, and today the Minister of Health proposes that the late Tamiflu be disposed of by voluntary distribution to the regions for use. That is, instead of disposal of drugs under the law, destroy them, and it is proposed that they be disposed of in Ukrainian bodies. We can't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u136	Colleagues, all those who wished to speak. I'm asking my fellow deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues! There will be a vote now, please. Please. I'm putting an alarm vote on draft law 0079. Please vote, support. Signal vote. Please vote. [[13:18:45]] For 211 My colleagues, once again, I'd like to invite the deputies into the hall to take up their jobs. Colleagues in the towers, please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that the vote is taking place. Please inform your colleagues about the voting. Please come into the hall. Call the coulaire MPs. I'll put it again, colleagues, a signal vote on the draft Law 0079. The vote, please vote, please take part in the vote. Please, 0079. [[13:19:51]] For 221 I'm asking you to come into the hall, there's gonna be a vote. Please call the deputies who are in the towers. Colleagues, four votes important for ratification. Sometimes when I'm told, and what we take for granted, every ratification is to strengthen our international legislative field. Colleagues, come into the hall. Let's do one more alert, check, check, check and vote. So the signal 0079. Please vote. 0079, please vote. [[13:20:44]] For 225 Please don't go back. Please come back. No, there's going to be a vote, it was a check. Colleagues, that was a test. There will be a vote. Please, it'll be here in a second. Colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on the Adoption of the Protocol to Amend the TRIPS Agreement (0079) as a whole. Please be careful, please vote in total 0079. Please vote. Vote. [[13:21:37]] For 231 Decision taken. The next ratification that we have in our agenda is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan (0080). And I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:22:10]] For-160. Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Chevalov Artem Valentinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u137	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the Second Development Policy Loan for Economic Reform between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Japan International Cooperation Agency. This is a $300 million loan linked to the World Bank’s Development Policy Project, which was already approved and implemented last year, which would have been received in September 2015. To date, the Government of Japan has taken appropriate internal policy measures to agree on the Japanese part of the additional agreement -- these 300 million. Today's ratification will allow us to get the funds in the General Fund of the State Budget within the next three weeks. As I said, this is a $300 million loan, a loan will be granted for 20 years with a 6-year debt period and a interest rate of less than 1 percent. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, Hope Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u139	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to say that it is very important today to vote and support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the Second Loan for Development Policy and Economic Reform between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Japanese Agency for International Cooperation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered and recommended the adoption of this agreement because it will allow us to get $300 million to the state budget, in general, a lower interest rate of 1 percent per year. I want to say that Japan heads this year, in a large family, Japan is a strategic partner for Ukraine and has made a great deal of efforts to help Ukraine implement reforms. But during the government of Yanukovic, there was a great deal of discredit and confidence in Ukraine as a whole was undermined. And that's why it's very important for us to restore trust in us, and especially this aid that's going on, and especially from the Japanese government, and from the movers, and in order to rebuild roads, and to introduce innovation, it has to be under strict control. And what I'm saying is that this week there was a sign visit to Parliament, this is a call by speakers from the countries of Northern Europe and the Baltic States. And if we ask what the meaning of these visits is, they're already asking how anti-corruption institutions worked, how do we solve internal problems, not just the situation in the East and the peace settlement? And that's why we have to make it superfluous to show that Parliament, together with the government, with the President's Administration, solve internal problems, really fight corruption so that our international partners, including Japan, can continue to support and we can restore trust, and thus build a relationship with our strategic partners. And you know that Japan has also suffered from the Russian Federation and the struggle for their territorial integrity lasts more than 70 years. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u140	Thank you. Colleagues! Are there willing to participate in the discussion, colleagues? I'm not wrong, am I? Then, dear fellows, we move on to the vote. I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please inform the secretariat that the deputies have entered the hall and are ready for the vote. Have you invited any deputies, colleagues? You'll have to ask a colleague after the faction. I place a bill on the ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan (number 0080), a signal vote. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote. [[13:27:06]] For 190 Colleagues, invite us to the MPs' room. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Are you guys ready? We're in the hall, I'm betting a vote on an audible, 0080, ratification of the Agreement. 0080, please vote for the vote, please. [[13:28:31]] For 201 Six people didn't make it. All right, let's take one minute, Victor Pinzenik. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall. As the MPs enter, one minute, Victor Pinzenick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to support this project. This is a loan for a budget in very favourable conditions. It's about a loan that's 20 years old, with a six-year pay-per-view period. So in this time of year, there's no repayment of the body of the loan. The interest rate on this loan is one percent. Credit is given in yen. Such cheap money is rarely received by Ukraine. Therefore, it is important for us to have the funds for service. Ukrainian debt was minimal. That's why I'm asking you to support this Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u142	Thank you. Colleagues, it's just going to be a very bad signal international when we're in the hall breaking down votes similar to agreements. I ask my colleagues to call those who are not in the hall. Please come into the hall of those who can hear me now. Please take the seats of the deputies who are in the hall. Can we vote? Colleagues, I'm putting the vote back on. Please come in, take your jobs. I've found two guilty men. Search for deputies and get to work! So once again, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (0080), the signal vote. Colleagues, please vote for everyone in the group, all the halls. It's a state bill. Vote. [[13:30:58]] For 208 Colleagues, I'll consult you, come on, then we'll move on to tomorrow's chapter on making decisions from the issues discussed earlier. Is that the form you're taking? No objections? [[B in m in s a l in]] Tomorrow? Yes. But I say, after the question discussed earlier. And let's do another ratification. Let's at least discuss another ratification, and then I'll call it a break. So I would like to support the proposal to consider the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on the Status of NATO Representation in Ukraine (0082) Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:32:03]] For 181 I invite you to report to Minister of Foreign Affairs Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovich. Paul Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u143	Mr. Vice-President of the Supreme Council, ladies and gentlemen of the people! For the first time, indeed, NATO, as an international organization, will open its consolidated representation in Ukraine. And this is further evidence of a special partnership between Ukraine and NATO. This representation will, in fact, be a full embassy and will be based on the NATO liaison office and information and documentation centre. The staff will enjoy all the privileges, according to the Vienna Convention. Because of this, the representation will be coordinating all the projects that are now taking place in the sphere of our interaction with NATO, including the effective development of trust funds, including the implementation of the memoranda that we signed. Today we have, as you know, seven trust fund projects. Please support, as this is a decisive step in the development of our cooperation with NATO. And I emphasize, this is not a technical moment, this is a very important moment that will allow us to develop new dynamics in the relationship with the alliance. Thank you very much and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u144	Thank you. The minister came to report the matter. This is an important question, so I'm asking you, I'm calling the deputies into the hall so that we can at least make a decision on it. I now invite the head of the Committee to report on foreign matters. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs Klimpush-Cincadze Ivana Orestovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u145	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to support, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Minister's words and the call for us to support the ratification of this agreement, because it is truly unprecedented. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its February 2nd meeting, reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on the Status of NATO Representation in Ukraine and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ratification of the Agreement. The ratification of the said agreement, as you can understand, will create a legal framework for NATO representation, which will bring together NATO liaison office in Kiev and the NATO Information and Documentation Centre in Ukraine, giving them full privileges, immunities and promotions that are granted to diplomatic agents accredited in Ukraine, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Again, I stress that this is an unprecedented step, both in Ukraine's NATO-related relations and in general in the history of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as an international organization as such. NATO is opening a consolidated representation in the country and this is happening in Ukraine, which underlines the specificity of our partnership with them. Another key point of the agreement is the coordination of all projects funded by NATO in Ukraine through trust funds, as said by the Minister, within the framework of the Science for Peace and Security programme, and directly through NATO representation in Ukraine as the only body, the objectives and tasks and coordination of all these projects will be met. We ask for support for the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on the Status of NATO Representation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, are there willing to discuss, share in the discussion? Is that right? Please include: two for, two against. And the factions during the performance, I'd like you to focus on going in, going back to the workplace, and voting for NATO. Because it's very easy to agitate on the air, and this turns out to be very difficult: to be in the hall and to vote for the key issues of our cooperation. And I'm asking all the deputies to call on this from the Supreme Council rostrum. Welcome to the word from the Radical Party. Lensky conveys the word to Oleg Ljashko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u147	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction will support the ratification of the Agreement on NATO representation in Ukraine. But, dear fellows, I would like to address you and say otherwise. Nothing and no one can discredit our Parliament more than we can. Prior to this, the ratification of the credit agreement with Japan, a colleague said, is $300 million below 1 percent for 20 years. And we can't ratify this agreement. Let's ask anyone, small, medium, or large, entrepreneur: if he were able to borrow 20 years under 1 percent, the first 6 years at all not to pay off the loan, the amount of the loan -- 300 million, would he find the opportunity to go to whoever's giving this loan, buy it, arrange it, stand up to just take the loan? I think it would have been people's turn to take credit. I believe that not voting for the ratification of Japan's credit is a discreditation of Ukraine, it's a discreditation of the Ukrainian Parliament, it's a disrespect for our partners from Japan. If we are unable to make the decisions that the country needs, if we are unable to come on a working day on Wednesday to vote on 226 deputies, why do we need such a number of deputies? Let's make changes to the constitution, there are 150 MPs in Parliament, let's put Parliament's number at 150 MPs who are aware of their responsibilities, who come and vote. Do not humiliate the Ukrainian Parliament or humiliate the Ukrainian people with this irresponsible attitude toward their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u148	Thank you for your support. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Fatherland faction will support the ratification of this treaty with NATO, because it was the Fatherland faction that first came after the victory of the dignity revolution, which made a proposal to abolish the so-called disgraceful off-block status and return to NATO membership. As the person who was involved in the creation of the first NATO institution in Ukraine, namely the Office of the Centre for Information and Documentation in Ukraine, I want to draw your attention to the following. The Foreign Minister said in his speech that for the first time in Ukraine a full diplomatic institution, NATO, was being created. All the diplomatic institutions of foreign states and international organizations operating in Ukraine ensure that their institutions function by way of rent or property. I have a question for the Foreign Minister. And why did they agree that our state would finance and purchase for the functioning of NATO representation in Ukraine at its own expense? This is not the concept of a full diplomatic institution spoken of by the minister of foreign affairs. I think that Ukraine is not a super-rich country, and NATO is not a super-poor organization that cannot afford to buy a facility to function. I ask the foreign minister to provide an explanation on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u150	Thank you. There are no more speakers, are there? Now I'm going to give the minister a word, of course. And I'm asking my colleagues to call the deputies into the hall, and there's going to be a vote. I'd like the secretariat to report to the deputies. And please turn on the minister's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u151	Thank you so much for asking that question. To date, our mission in the NATO office does not adequately pay rent, it only pays utilities. The same mechanism is now agreed upon by NATO in Kiev. Of course, it is fair to say that when we move to the new NATO building that is being built now, we have to renegotiate and understand how this model will work. But now it's working, so we agreed, on the principle of reciprocity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Gopka, one minute. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! I want to say that in fact the committee, along with the Ministry, has done a lot to ensure that there is close cooperation between Ukraine and NATO and we have ratified more than one agreement. And this example of NATO representation status in Ukraine is another evidence. But we have a huge request, on behalf of the committee, that at last the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 18 countries where there are no representatives of our ambassadors, this is particularly true, there is no Ambassador of Ukraine to NATO, and this is a critical problem. And we demand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President's Administration finally have those ambassadors in countries where there are no: Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Sweden, Norway and many other countries: 18 countries. It's a huge disgrace. We've blown up additional funds for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At our meeting, a representative of the committee’s administration did not appear. And so one of the important things is that we need to reform the service after the State Service Act, and we demand that ambassadors be assigned as quickly as possible, because it's a matter of fighting the state and defending national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-03-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on the Status of NATO Representation in Ukraine (0082). Signal vote. Please vote, signal vote 0082. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:44:48]] For 199 Did anyone miss it? Let me do it again. So, the signal vote is 0082. Signal: 0082. [[13:45:26]] For 201 There are not enough votes. I'm asking the factions to show us how they voted. "Prashenka Block" – 85, "The People's Front" – 50, "The Self-Help" – 21, Radical Party – 14, "The Father's Party" – 6, "The Rebirth Party" – 2, "The Will of the People" – 2. Society is what will destroy us, this Parliament, which has adopted an extremely large number of important laws, not political opposition, but the lack of the ability to make decisions. A banal lack of responsibility for people who went to the Supreme Council. I have one question for them: What were they going for, people?Oh, my God! On the air all the time, there are no people. Where are you on the air about NATO?Oh, my God! Where are you who are yelling about reforms, the need for reform when important decisions are made in the hall?Oh, my God! Colleagues, I want to and I'm addressing all those who don't have jobs right now, which are mostly out of jobs. Colleagues, this is our shared responsibility, all of us. And I would very much ask all factions to hold meetings and discuss issues on their factions. If we don't raise discipline in the hall, we won't be able to make decisions that matter to the country. Dear colleagues, at that morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will gather to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. And two questions after the ratification, I'm going to clean up so we can put them to the vote tomorrow.
