ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u1	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Good morning! I'd like you to sign up. [[10:04:18]] 315 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, today, in accordance with article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are held "hours of questions to the Government". Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Greetings to our officials, welcome to the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] I remind you that we have two ministers speaking. Today we have agreed that there will be a speech before the Supreme Council by the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Igor Stepanovich Nasalik and Vladimir Volodymyrovich Omelyan, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. Then there will be 30 minutes to ask questions from the MPs. So, colleagues, we're starting an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to address the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine Vladimir Vladimir Omelyan. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. Request to include slides, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u3	The camera, I'm asking you to include the slides that the minister gave us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u4	I know it's all on. Dear Mr. Head, Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, National MPs, members of the government, dear journalists. I am delighted to present to you the key summaries of the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine for 2016. At the outset, I would like to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the coalition, all the people's deputies for their support and good working synergies this year. It was the command work that allowed us to get a worthy result from the year. Key: we're changing our approach to transport and infrastructure. Because of the development of the transport network and infrastructure, we unite the country, making it stronger, mobile, and more complete. It is the roads, the railways, the aircraft, and the sea that connect the country into a strong and strong knot that cannot be cut apart. So infrastructure development is not just roads and airports, it's national security and state power. So transport unites people, infrastructure unites the country. Not only have we started major structural reforms this year, we already have the results. We plan to implement European standards in infrastructure: road fund, weight control on roads, development of border infrastructure, implementation of FIDIC andCoST quality control systems. These standards are and will be in Ukraine. But it's all right. It's a road sector. A new head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, Kraprivtodor, Slavomier Novak. This is the former Polish Infrastructure Minister. And we have high expectations for him. A budget of $35 billion for roads was adopted in 2017. The law on the creation of the Road Fund and the decentralization of the “Kravtodor” has been passed. New approaches to financing the road sector have been introduced. Extensive restoration of Ukrainian highways has been carried out. In 2016 the maximum length of roads was repaired over 10 years. 66 percent of the total is eliminated. Nearly 22,000 miles [22,000 km] of markings were made, more than planned, by 2 percent. 60,000 road signs have been set and replaced. That's 110 percent of the planned quantity. Nearly 7 units of equipment are ready to combat winter slipperyness and ensure that road traffic is cleared. But the issue of technology upgrading is extremely acute. Traffic control has been introduced on Ukraine's highways, involving 200 million euros under the project "Urban Public Transport of Ukraine". The Law on Electronic Ticket was voted in the first reading. A programme has been developed to liberalize and deregulation the market for regular suburban, urban, and interdistrict bus transport. A comprehensive proposal has been developed for the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine. A Memorandum of Implementation for FIDIC andCoST systems has been signed. The railway industry. There's been a new head of PAT, Wojciech Balchun's Crossroads. A supervisory board has been formed that will now be changed in the corporate process. A strategic plan has been developed to update the PAT mobile warehouse "The Crossroads". Launching Twinning project support, supporting the Ministry of Infrastructure to implement the European model for the transport transport services market in Ukraine. The production of thousands of new wagons has begun. Stabilising the Silk Road. The aviation sector. Ukraine's 100% readiness to sign a common aviation space agreement with the EU. A regional airport development program has been launched. Passenger transport growth accounted for 29 percent. New, old regional airports are actively developing and opening: Lviv, Herson, Zaporozhye, Chernivci, Raven, Curve Rig, Žitomir. Some offer an increase of 65 percent in passenger traffic. More than 8 million people were transported, more than 1.5 million of whom are transit passengers. The Borispol International Airport ends a year with an income of over 1.2 billion dollars. The airport reached the list of the largest taxpayers in Ukraine. That was never the case. Sea branch and waterways. The Hanson Seaport concession project has been initiated and the state-owned oil company Olivia. Work has been started by entering Ukraine’s world port operators DP World and Hutchison Ports. With the support of the Netherlands Embassy, Dnieper’s development initiative has been developed to provide for the restoration of freight transport through inland waterways. The reduced number of procedures when ships arrive at seaports in Ukraine, the average time is now 20 minutes in contrast to the few days that were in the 15th year, in the 14th. In support of a mission of American engineers, a complex survey of all the gateways on Dniper was carried out. For the first time in years, 113 million dollars have been allocated for their reconstruction. Work has been started on the establishment of a maritime administration and the radical reform of the Ukrainian seaport administration. Postage. Igor Smilinski's new manager has been appointed. A modern, effective management team has been formed. Corporateization has started. The increase in the physical volume of "Small" shipments was in the case of small packets plus 32 percent, the shipment plus 38 percent. The increase in revenue from the provision of services for the transfer of small packages in January-September 16th was 44 percent plus. From shipping, plus 25 percent. Since the distribution of periodic printed editions, plus 71 percent. Fighting corruption. All state companies and transport agencies have switched to the public procurement system ProZorro. 123 checkpoints have been made, 12 criminal conducts have been opened, and 8 persons have been released in connection with the discovery of criminal conduct. In addition, within the framework of the Crossroads, and we are now launching this project in other businesses in the field, established monitoring groups, which include experts from both the public environment and law enforcement agencies. This is the result of the ministry team's work. And I thank the government and parliament once again for their support. I hope the following year will be the year of the massive restoration of Ukrainian highways, open skies, the arrival of world port operators and luxury companies. We will develop border infrastructure by bringing Ukraine closer to EU standards. We're going to connect Ukraine with a comfortable and secure connection. Under special care is the life and safety of citizens. The movement is underway, and it is unstoppable. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Nasalik Igor Stepanovic is invited to the presentation. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u6	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Members of the government! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to say that the energy sector of Ukraine cannot be talked about in 15 minutes, in all the achievements and in all the problems, but I will try to focus on the main problems that are in the energy sector of our country. What I'm saying is that, today, Ukraine's combined energy system is fully operational, we're ready for any temperature mode, we're fully equipped with all energy resources and consumers, and industry can sleep peacefully, without any notice. The other one. I want to thank today the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, to thank the Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel and Energy Complex and to the members of the Supreme Council for the adoption of Law 4744, which was adopted yesterday, concerning the miners of our state. We can confidently say that by January 1st, all debts will be paid to coal miners and we will enter the new year without a budget debt in the coal sector. But this raises a major problem -- the problem of reforming our coal sector, which has always been treated in a secondary way. And the coal industry, like agriculture, which you have sown in the spring, you will get it in the autumn. Only a long period of time — what we sow today will come in a year and a half. The reform of the coal sector provides for the full provision of the thermal generation as a closing generation of Ukraine’s unified energy system with the necessary energy resource, and reform involves investing in the coal sector. And what you hear in the media is that the coal sector is not going to be financed is not real. In that draft budget you adopted, which I hope will be signed by the President and we will enter with him in 2017, an established and financial base for the coal sector. In particular, there are 1 billion dollars for the material and technical supply of mines, which are based on government guarantees. One billion dollars were set up differently from coal and 800 million were set up after the mines were restructured. Heat generation, like a computer, cannot exist without an operating system. So the free industry is the operating system of the heat generation. Let's talk about basics. On Monday, an updated energy strategy for the development of Ukraine’s energy complex was posted on the Ministry of Energy’s website by 2035. This updated energy strategy was developed by the National Institute of Strategic Research and the Razumkov Centre for Economic and Political Research, together with the management company, we put it in place for 30 days. And I ask, including the deputies, to join in the work where we will take all your wishes for the development of the energy complex of Ukraine into account. The energy strategy answers three basic questions. The first question is, how are we going to provide consumers and our industrial complex with energy resources? The second question is, how do we do that? And the third question is, how do you make Ukraine's energy system independent of its external influence? Today, I have to tell you that there are three basic challenges that we are trying to meet. And the first challenge, by the way, I wanted to say this at a meeting of the Supreme Council today because the media didn't treat it very well yesterday. I said that over the course of three years, Ukraine's energy system, including the heat generation, would eliminate its dependence on anthracite coal groups. What does that mean? This means that there will be no mechanism of influence on Ukraine, which unfortunately only produces a gas group of coal in the controlled territory. What have we done? Three basic steps have been taken. First. We transferred the second and fifth snake blocks from the anthrax group to a gas group of coals produced in the territory Ukraine, and since May 1, the second energy block will be launched. Second position, on June 10th, we launched the third hydroaggregate of Dniestrów's GAES, which allows for further release into the system of 328 million megawatts, which compensates 40. 400,000 tons of coal. In addition, thanks to the World Bank’s joint investment, we increased the power of Dniestrów’s GAES and launched an additional 280 megawatts from June 30. The implementation of the project of the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development enabled us to build an airline of 750 megawatts, which not only ensured the continued energy supply of Kiev and Kiev, but eventually unlocked the power of the nuclear industry generated by the Plain and Hmelnian nuclear power plants. Second, important challenges in the atomic complex. And we've taken more steps to diversify supply. In particular, out of the 13 nuclear fuel supplies in Ukraine, 30 percent of us today provide alternatively from Westinghouse. Second, we have completed the extension of the operation of the first and second Zaporozhye bloc and have fully put them into operation, which now produces power in the United Energy System of Ukraine. We have resolved both the land area and the financing of the Central Nuclear Fuel Storage, which will enable Ukraine to save between $160 million and $200 million a year and diversify the supply of spent nuclear fuel. It must also say that Ukraine is actively working to reduce its dependence on gas imports. Therefore, the Ukrainian Presidential Reform Council adopted the concept of developing the energy complex and the Ukrainian gas sector, which foresees that in 2020 additional gas production in Ukraine will not be dependent on gas and will be transformed as of 2021. from an importing country to an exporting country. Not enough, we support financing and the desire of the financial structures of the world to create a gas habu in Ukraine. In particular, of course, we can say that today we do not yet have the gas market law, we do not yet have a gas market in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this is linked to the NAC monopoly on Naftogazu Ukraine in our country. So the ministry has put in place a third energy package over the last five years, signed by Ukraine, and we've conducted an enbandling or reforming of the NAC of Naftogazu Ukraine, by selecting a transport network, by creating an open public society with 100 percent state shares in Ukraine's gas pipelines, this is another step towards creating a gas market in Ukraine. In addition, Ukraine has adopted Ukraine’s energy balance for the first time in 16 years for 2017. This enabled all generating companies consciously to create an energy reserve for 2017. And the main thing that I want to focus on is that any work has to end with a result. And here's what we've created over the last seven months, by creating a balance, we've gotten that result. On the basis of the balance, our nation's energy balance for 2017, the NCRECR has decided for the first time in 25 years to lower electricity prices by 10 percent, starting on 1 January 2017 and an additional 5.7 percent, starting on 1 April. Fifteen percent, much or little? For example, Ukraine’s combined energy supply accounts for 150 billion dollars. Fifteen percent of our money is 22.5 billion dollars, which is 22.5 billion dollars that we did not reach our industries in the pockets of electricity consumers in Ukraine. Not enough, this effect has a multiactive effect. As a city head who worked 8.5 years, I have to tell you that in the water supply structure, between 30 and 70 percent of electricity is in the water supply structure, 30 to 80 percent is in the water supply structure. What does this talk about? That today we have given local self-government authorities the opportunity to lower water and water tariffs by at least 10 to 12 percent. And today, speaking from the Supreme Council's rostrum to the local self-government authorities, I ask you to take this opportunity. Thank you. Thank you, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u7	Thank you very much. Colleagues, I want to remind you that we have questions from national MPs, not factions. And I'd like you to prepare for the government enrollment. Please record from the National MPs. Please. Ms. Sergey Volodymyrovich from the Peter Dust Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u8	First of all, I want to thank the government for paying attention to the issue of irrigation and its restoration in this year and in this budget. And this particular budget line is a big thank you from all over southern Ukraine. And I have a question for Kistion Vladimir Euseiovich. Please tell me about Genician. The problem of gas supply with each day is becoming more and more important because cooling and for the problem of Genesis is very important. Please coordinate what to expect from the people of Genichesk, to be counted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Presidency. Indeed, the problem of the city of Genicek took place. First of all, the problem is that the city of Genicek is linked to the annexed territory of Crimea. During 2016 a number of measures were carried out by local authorities and the district government, i.e. virtually all institutions of budgetary, social and alternative fuel boilers. The question of establishing boilers in alternative fuels is also stimulated by the private sector, where technically possible. In addition, several directions for additional entry into the city of Genicesk were worked out during 2016, from a political and economic perspective. A final decision has been made on the establishment and execution of an additional intro from Nova Ascania to Genicesk on the way to connecting the two settlements. At present, the corresponding financial resources are being allocated at the district council level, the development of project-cost documentation is being done, and it is projected that the project-cost documentation will be ready at the end of March-month, and we are thinking that from May-month, real work will begin. The actual cost of calculating and installing the gas pipeline is 220-240 million, but the final cost will be set by design and cost documentation. The deadline for work is 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u10	All I can do is add, your honor. Did you hear from the Deputy Prime Minister that the value of 220-240 million earlier? But the previous cost was a billion, a billion, 400 million. I immediately said that, colleagues, something was unclean here. If we can do something for 220-240 million, I won't let anyone steal a billion. That's it. We're going to do it in a cost-saving way and it's going to be absolutely good for the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u11	Lapin Igor Alexanderovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u12	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. I urge you to organize an inspection of the availability of means of transport that are required to evacuate our wounded and, in general, that are allowed and should be on the front line, this is particularly true of the issue that has been raised and, including me yesterday, from the Parliamentary Chamber on the Lightwave, where volunteers and our citizens are taking the wounded to their tars. Do we not have the quick help or the armored means of transport that can do this? So I insist on organizing a zero-point inspection across the zero-line line. And a question to Minister Habakkuk or a representative of the Navy. What's there about our law enforcement rally, which is already retired, about the recalculation of their pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u13	Good afternoon, dear friends! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask that we, the data that we're talking about throughout the country, are actually tested and met reality. To date, a special warehouse that carries out combat tasks in the area of conducting a terrorist operation, based on our capabilities, is provided with evacuation facilities. This year we signed up for 60 cars, and we also planned 40 in the next one. As for the order and organization of medical care in the conduct of combat operations on the World War II, today the Commission of the Ministry of Defence is working, in summary, I will make a decision. We are ready to continue to increase the number of evacuations when properly financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u15	It's about the veterans. There was a meeting with the minister of internal affairs with veterans with trade union representatives, a working group, the question is, fully communication, all of the issues in the work question we're looking at. So all the veterans' questions will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u16	Thank you. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, customs reform is one of the priorities of your government, and we know that there is money in the state budget for building infrastructure, for purchasing equipment. And 10 percent of the excess will be paid to customs and customs. And now the main question to you is, who, when and how will this money be spent not to be stolen by corrupt DFS officials, how has this been happening over the last 20 years? So I ask you very much to take this under personal control and to engage in parliamentary control of the people's deputies. Also a question from my faction colleagues regarding the verification of the Pension Fund. When and how will we see the results of the audit of the Pension Fund and the recipients of the so-called "dead souls"? And when the government is going to implement the cumulative level of the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u19	Thank you so much for your question. I completely agree that customs needs further, further systemic changes. And to do that, we needed resources. We've accumulated them now in order to do technical upgrades and completely change the customs system. I said this in this room that we're going to make a joint working group with the MPs. I'd like this to be an open job, and it was effective, because the system is really seriously affected by corruption, and it's not done in a year. At the same time, we have been able to change the work of the Ukrainian Customs since August. I can only say numbers. Every month, we're going to give over a quarter or two billion dollars of payments, but I don't think that's enough. I think tens of billions of dollars today are in the shade. And thanks to the changes made in tax legislation, we'll be able to get this money out of the shadows and make them work for the government and for the state. So I'm going to involve you in this work, and I'm interested in putting order there very quickly. But order is to be set in a systematic manner. Because there's nothing you can do about half-wests. There is an understanding of this, there is a political will to do it. We'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u20	Thank you. Bogdan Onufrik gives the word to Pottery. And Reva, right? Then I'll give Rev a chance to answer. He's not in the hall right now. Onufric Bogdan tells Honcharenko. Turn on the potter's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government! First of all, I want to say hi. This morning, at 6 a.m., I went to the train station to welcome all the passengers of the first Euro-Express Kiev-Premysl. And this is the first scale of the Ukrainian Jewry. I want that to be more. This is a very right and strong step, and it is strategically important to all of us. And the question. The Odessa Portal Plant. Sad to say, the company is now working in a bad way, and debt is accumulated with each month. I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Borisovich, to take this situation under control so as not to allow the plant to stop. Because he's been standing there for two months, unfortunately. And this is a question of four thousand people, workers. This is a urban enterprise for the city of South Odessa. It's taxes. And most of all. The Odessa import plant, which does not work, is a major threat to environmental security. Because it's the most amyacosaconstituent in Europe and a very dangerous enterprise. So please, let me finish for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u22	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u23	Thank you. So I'm asking you to find ways, whether it's through the transfer of Crushing, which has less self-sustainment gas, whether it's through tolling schemes or rent, but to find the possibility of supplying gas to Odessa's transportation plant at such a cost that it can work at least with minimal profitability. Don't let this company stop! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u24	Thank you so much for your question. In fact, the Odessa Porting Plant, a flagman of the Ukrainian industry, is in such a difficult condition. You know, there are plans for his public, open privatization. I think this factory has been a target for the corruption of a variety of tools, and unfortunately, we are now seeing the fact that this plant is inefficiently managed, including by the State Property Fund. This requires an appropriate new approach to cleaning up the business from debts that have also accumulated over the years, sadly. Getting it out of the state of bankruptcy in which the business today is located. In fact, this is one of the priorities of government work, and today we are looking for the right options that will allow us to ensure the rhythmic work of this company. At the same time, I want to confirm that today’s market for mineral fertilizers is negative, and so in its value, we see that it is unacceptable today, coming out of the market. But once again, I want to emphasize that it is important for us to find the right solution to make this business better and to make it possible to work with quality. We'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u25	Who's Nasalek?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u26	Alexander Daniluk. There was a question about verification. This year, a fairly active payment verification work was carried out. This should be in such a way that many of the inconsistencies that have been addressed to the Pension Fund have been changed accordingly. The overall economy was about 10 billion. It is difficult to say which was the result of verification and which was the result of other measures. So it's hard to say, really, what amount can be related to verification. But we're going to change our approach now, and we're now working with the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Social Policy. We agreed on an active data exchange to make it no longer some kind of resistance, but actually a joint work that produces an effective outcome. And next year, we're going to be further strengthening verification measures because it will save taxpayers' costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Marcenko Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u28	Good afternoon! Alexander Marchenko, Freedom, the city of the Bila Church. I want to ask the Minister of Finance first. Alexander Aleksandrovich, please give the exact figure set out in the 2017 budget for financing the execution of court decisions, this reference to the court was to the Chernobyls, war veterans. And the second question. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you to answer such questions as the use of state programs, especially on free medications, especially when this report is due in 2016. How many jobs have been created, or restored in 2016, and in what sectors, and what are the priority areas of work, you plan to do in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. The 2016 report will take place at the beginning of 2017 when it is completed. And including, by the way, there's a very good information resource called ay-da, where you can fully track all budget expenditures across all budget programs with the ability to analyze what is being spent and how is being spent. With regard to the 2017 plans. I spoke on several occasions in this room and called for support for changes to tax legislation, budgetary legislation, to adopt the 2017 budget, where it is very clearly protruded, what we will do in 2017. Unfortunately, as I understand it, you did not support this decision. What will we do? We'll be working on raising the minimum wage twice as of 1 January 2017, and it's a shame that you didn't support this decision. We're going to raise salaries for teachers and doctors. We will provide free medicines, both to the hospital’s patients and to reimburse free medicines for chronic patients from April 1st. We're going to build infrastructure, upgrade our energy system, we're going to support our agriculture, we're going to build a system of agricultural engineering, lots of other priorities. Our task of restoring and increasing the national economy, and we're going to create, including, jobs with normal open wages. We will be engaged in the systematic development of Ukraine in 2017. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u30	Regarding the issue of court decisions, the budget provides 500 million dollars, as well as the possibility of repaying the debt by promissory notes. It's all budgeted here, which was accepted by the Supreme Council, and I'm sure you know that, because there's been a few days to get to know them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u31	The answer's done, isn't it? Paulinek gives the word to Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u32	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. I have a question for Vladimir Borisovich. Distinguished Vladimir Borisovic, yesterday the Supreme Council successfully overturned two drafts on compensation for housing in the ATO area. As a result of the discussions of the writer, I don't want to judge now, I think the sample will give its own assessment of what they said and how they voted, but unfortunately no one has removed the problem. In multi-housing homes, well, it's sort of solved, so with regard to private housing, it's practically not solved, some have lost their business, lost their cars, lost their transportation, lost their payloads. Do you see a solution? We offered an option. This option did not go away. You see the solution to this question somehow, how are we going to get out of this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u33	Thank you so much for your question. Unfortunately, I wasn't in the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday, I didn't see the political party position, I'm going to take my position as prime minister of the country. First. The citizens of Ukraine have suffered from the aggression of the Russian Federation, in fact, we are losing the lives of Ukrainian citizens because of the aggression of the Russian Federation and the Russian army, its mercenaries. Position number two. We need to protect all those and support all those who need such support, including housing, jobs, reintegration and all. So my position is completely open here. And I think we need to find mechanisms for such compensation and support for the people who have suffered -- all Ukrainians. And third, to be completed. One minute. Am I intruding? Thank you. And thirdly, dear friends, I would very much ask that Donbass' question and help the common people not be politicized, because everyone wants to find their political dividends in this. But we must have a conscience so that such dividends do not become a guarantee of failure. [[Applause]] And that would be the wisdom of Ukrainian politicians, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian government, and all the other officials who were hired to serve people, no matter where they live, in eastern Ukraine or in the West. Thank you so much for your question. I am willing to help and involve myself in solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u34	Taras Dmitrovitch's flint, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u36	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for bringing such a bold risk to the floor on Wednesday and confirming that there is a coalition and responsible deputies in this session room, and we voted in favour of the budget. In this budget, all of the requirements of the People's Front are met: that's financing the defence, the national security level is 5 percent, that's continuing the road experiment, that's also paying and raising the salaries of teachers, medical workers. But please tell me, Mr. Prime Minister, will there be a balanced budget by the end of the year if the Law on the Seizure of Money Stolen by Yanukovic is not approved? I'm sorry that this proposal for the People's Front was not supported in this room this week. Please tell me if Janukovich's lobby finally wins? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u37	Thank you very much, Maxim Yuriovich, for your question. I would like to thank once again the Ukrainian people's deputies for the faction of Peter Prashenko, the People's Front of Ukraine, the Radical Party, part of the Self-Help faction, 18 non-fractional deputies for their support, well, in fact the development of Ukraine. You know, in words, when everyone says they love Ukraine and the Ukrainians, it's one thing to do something to make those words a reality. I'm sorry. But when people talk about what they can't do and what they can't do, no political decision to make it better, it says about, well, I call those people political losers who come out, start telling about what needs to be better, and they don't want to do anything about it. That's why I'm here. How I perceive the budgeting process: none. There was no requirement of any faction, there was a normal dialogue, and there was a definition of the priorities that we have to solve with you. So I want to thank you for this joint work and the finale -- that we went to the 2017 budget. And we're going in completely planned right now on January 1st without any shocks or anything else, so thank you very much for that. As for the special confiscation, colleagues, we need you to accept all necessary legislation so that these funds that have been stolen from the Ukrainians can be returned to the state budget. Well, it's not a discussion, it's not a discussion, it can't. We can't discuss this. Then we have to figure out the way. Yesterday the government made a new decision, approved a new draft law on such a specific confiscation. We put him in Parliament. Unfortunately, for technical reasons, they were unable to consider it yesterday. I believe and insist that we return to this issue in the early days of Parliament's work in January. We are to gather together, and I am also ready to participate directly, to discuss each article of this law, and to make an important decision that will allow these costs to be reimbursed. Enough speculation on this issue too! So how many can you talk about laws without reading them?Oh, my God! I know that there are certain political forces that are starting to talk about that this law, there, is bad, and there is corruption and so on. I've said it more than once from this place: or maybe it's not corrupt, it's right, it restores justice? But someone is reluctant to block this process. And we're going to be called that, we don't have to make fools out of Ukrainian society and out of all of us. So it's very important that we go back, vote, and put these funds back where they were stolen. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u38	Thank you. Kirichenko Alexei Mikolaiovich. He's handing over Oleg Valerious. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you and I have agreed that in the new year you will give the Ukrainians free medicine and anticipate the corresponding expenditure in the state budget. And the second question. The commitment you made to the Ukrainian people is an increase in pensions for Ukrainians. A minimum of half a million pensioners are now receiving less than a thousand dollars. Millions of people are receiving a pension of 1,000, 200, 1,000, 300. I want to ask you, on behalf of these beggars, who they've been turned into in 25 years, when you raise people's pensions, just as radically as we've raised wages for Ukrainians; and when will the people get free medicine? How long does it take for people to die to finally realize that Ukrainians need drugs they can't pay for?Oh, my God! I demand an answer from you!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u40	Thank you very much, Oleg Valeriyovich, for your emotional question. My answer will be very clear. First. Thanks to the adoption of the draft budget and the budget for 2017, we have put 500 million dollars in real reimburgment, that is, for free medicine, compensation for the price of free medicines for chronic patients. It's type III diabetes, it's hypertension and bronchial asthma. So we're going to compensate you for the cost of these drugs. Since April 1, we'll start working, we'll actually see how much money we need per year, and the government will be asking for proposals, correcting these figures probably, and we understand that, on the increase side. This is the first position. Second position. You've approved the 2017 budget, which provides 2 billion dollars more for the purchase of medicines for cancer patients, children's oncology. And that allows us to start all tender procedures on time with you and through international organizations at an effective, fair and public price to buy these drugs. The only thing I can tell you is that our government has destroyed any schemes in public procurement. State drug purchases. We buy the drugs cheaper, and this, I think, is a serious breakthrough that we made. So we can buy more drugs and quality drugs. In addition, we need to reform the health system itself so that so many do not get sick as we do today. Moreover, in the 2017 budget, you, your fellow national MPs, have endorsed the government's initiative to create cardio-vascular surgery centres throughout the country. 65 percent of Ukrainian citizens die of cardiovascular disease! It's a disaster, we're losing. Now the final trend is that the mortality rate is lower, unfortunately too much. Young people even die from these diseases. So compensation for the cost of drugs, the possibility of getting specialized aid in cardio centres will save the lives of Ukrainian citizens, and this is also the step that was taken, thanks to your understanding and support of the government's initiatives to approve the 2017 budget. As far as pensions are concerned. Obviously this is the case, we have to reform the pension system of Ukraine. What led to the retirement system in Ukraine today? To the poverty of Ukrainian pensioners. 80 percent of the pensioners in Ukraine who have worked their entire lives with faith and truth on our nation, besides being deceived, are now living on a minimum pension. This is because the pension deficit, the deficit, is 150 billion. How was it supposed to be directed to the pen to build such a tragic pension system over the decades of our independence? So we're going to have to make free decisions with you, and these decisions are going to lead to the Pension Fund, and more specifically, its deficit being reduced radically, as you said, and pensions to Ukrainian citizens being increased, and these are our strategic tasks for 2017. And we're going to have to take political responsibility with you, make a decision that will make it possible to get away from the poverty of not only the 400,000 pensioners who are on the pension system today, 949 dollars and receive social assistance, but all millions of Ukrainian pensioners who are going to receive just retirement and a fair system. And what's more, the people who are working today, and the people who are being paid the money in the envelope today, which we're definitely up against, and we've made the necessary decisions with you to get rid of this phenomenon, the same people today, not paying them the money, are going to quit in five, seven, ten years when they're going to retire. Because they are not paid for, and they are actually doomed to poverty when they retire. That's what we have to fight you with. And finally. We can raise social standards when we have an increase in the national economy, that's what distinguishes us from populists who can only talk. That's why we're going to be taking initiatives in Parliament with you on mechanisms for stimulating and developing the national economy. Our task is to ensure the growth of the national economy, our task is to increase the number of jobs, increase the processing in Ukraine, create the added cost, this will all be able to fill the budget, including what was asked by my colleague, by my colleague Ostrikov. Dozens of billions today remain in the shadows of customs. This requires political will, political position. And I'm going to ask you, dear fellow national MPs, no matter what factions or parties you and I are going to take a consolidated position on the necessary changes in the name of the Ukrainian people. Then the next election will come, and each of us will be evaluated. And if we are truly honest in our service, this evaluation will be very high. So I'm counting on initiatives that will stimulate the development of the national economy to be supported by the Ukrainian Parliament. Without Parliament, rapid change will be very and very difficult. Thank you for your support in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u41	Thank you very much. Thanks to the government, after a difficult day of budget adoption, we were able to explain and clarify the details today. But in general, we need to celebrate the effective work of both parliament and government this week. Any more questions? And Vladimir Borisovich, another question asked, the last question in the "hour of questions to the government." Igor Mikolaiovich gives Hennadia Tkachuku a word for questions. That's the last question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u42	Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, December 11, 18, Ukraine, held the first elections in many newly formed united territorial communities. What are the main steps of the government towards further decentralization in Ukraine planned for 2017? This is of great concern to all Ukrainians, and especially to these united communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. I am very grateful to all the Ukrainian National Deputies, who supported in 15, in 16 years all the necessary changes to the large-scale decentralization of power and the building of an effective system of local self-government. Unfortunately, during the budget review, I didn't want to comment too much on some of the, I'd say, some decentralization evaluations of the people's deputies that don't fit in with reality. It was very soft now, softly expressed. But decentralization is actually going on. Local budgets are increasing and will increase in the coming year. All united territorial communities will have direct relations with the central budget, their own financial and material base. This will make it possible for each such united community to be a leader and to successfully handle the tasks that their electorate places on them. So I welcome the leaders of more than 380 communities, especially those who went to the December 11th and 18th elections, won. And they are now faced with completely new possibilities for further success. Our job is to support this movement. Our job is not to let anyone under any slogan stop real decentralization. Our job is to protect. And the decentralization system was also preserved in 2017. I can only say that we have improved the efficiency of governance at the local level. And most importantly, they've increased the efficiency of using budget resources. Because the cost, I've been giving an example that, unfortunately, some cities, including large cities, have a lot of problems, keep 500 million dollars in deposits. It's a disaster! This is a crime in front of Ukrainian citizens and in front of the inhabitants of the cities where this is happening. So I think that since 2017 we can build an even more quality management system at the local level. And decentralization, including this systemic reform that is going on and on and on, will be felt for every inhabitant of the regional communities of Ukraine. Thank you for asking. And to be completed, if you please. By the end of 2016, it was very difficult. But you know, I think we've managed to stabilize the situation with you, and to show the state's position in many decisions. Today we have reached the end of the year and economic growth and macroeconomic stability. And we're actually laying all the foundations for economic growth next year. I would very much like to see all the difficult times in the life of every Ukrainian citizen go back in time. We still have a lot of work to do. But I know exactly that we will be faithful and true to serve in order for every citizen of Ukraine to experience change. I would like to welcome all of you, dear fellow members of the national MPs, with the coming New Year's Eve, all of you to the upcoming Catholic Christmas. I want to wish everyone peace, good, harmony and success. I am convinced that if we believe in this success, if we work together to achieve it, we will surely succeed. And success will be that when we go out with you and walk the streets, we don't have to turn our eyes away from anyone. Don't let us be ashamed of you for what we're doing to you. This will be the success we all want, that people will feel that our actions are open, sincere and aimed at the success of a particular Ukrainian family, a particular Ukrainian citizen. Thank you all very much. I want peace and harmony. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister of Ukraine, thank you to the government for the active and coordinated work this week. Good luck. Thank you for participating in our work. Now, according to 25 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes to announce requests from Ukrainian national deputies. And I invite you to speak to the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an appeal from the National Deputy Jurya-Bogdan Shuhević to the President of Ukraine regarding the withdrawal of the "Publication is not due" and the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which set illegal pension privileges for former MPs of the U.S.R.R.R., former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, etc. and members of their families, who count pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the suspension of pensions for these persons. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. We need the support of that request. Please vote in favour of this request. Please vote. [[11:02:48]] For-67 Sadly, the request did not find its support. We have questions: Constantine Jarinič to the Kyiv City State Administration for the provision of relevant and complete information to graduates of the higher medical institutions on the availability of vacancies in health - care facilities in the area (Kiev City) in accordance with the legislative requirements. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the allocation of land for participants in the ATO of the Romanov region, the Zitomir region. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Administration, the head of the Žitomir District Council for the acquisition and establishment of solid boilers for the Golovenkov School of Public Education, the 1st grade of the Žitomir Region, the Zitomir Region. Yuri Solova to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the promotion of shepherding and animal farming in mountain areas, on the basis of the new budget programme “Financial support for farmers”. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the reduction of the bed fund at the Provincial Psychiatric Hospital No. 1. Sergey Kaplina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of deposit-recovery measures for fraudulent Lubno credit card investors. Sergey Kaplin to the prosecutor of the Poltava district for investigating possible illegal actions by officials of the Poltava City Council in the purchase of child gift kits. Denis Silantiev to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the sale of the port fleet of the State Enterprise Odes Sea Trade Port. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the U.S. Attorney General’s Office of the Kamiyan Department of Police in the Dnipropetrovsk Region. Sergey Saska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of debt from benefits and subsidies for heat, central heating and central heating, in accordance with Order No.20 of 11 January 2005. Eugene Ribczynski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure that the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine orders the production of forms, letters, free travel vouchers from the SND member countries for 2016-2020. Anna Romanova to the Chernigow City Head on the tragedy of the collapse of a building in Chernigow on the street of Popudrenka, building 16, and urgent action for the timely repair of all the city’s emergency buildings. Alexia Rybkin to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary request for violations of the current Ukrainian legislation during the execution of the executive service of the Dimitriov City Department of Justice in the Donetsk Region. John Mirny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of guarantees of social protection for veterans, pensioners of internal affairs bodies, participants in the liquidation of the CAES accident and ATO participants in the Chernobyl region. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the numbering of pensions for women according to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the deputies of the Suma District Council to ensure the conclusion of the contracts of the PAT "Sumska Machine Construction and Production Union" for the modernization of the domestic gas transport system. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to bring prices/tariffs to a economically sound and socially equitable level. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the National Commission, which regulates energy and utilities, heads of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Kyivoblanergo to address the issue of unbreakable energy supply in the city of Fastest and to develop a more flexible system of payment of advances for electricity consumers. Vitalia Kuril to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the information security of the inhabitants of Stančno-Lugansk, Novoidar region and the city of Luhansk region. Groups of National Deputies (Ednaka, Kiskarra and others, only 9 deputies) to the Court of Auditors on the conduct of financial audit and performance audit of the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Igor Guza to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the need to amend the current legislation and bring Ukraine's National Archives and Archives Act into line with the Ukrainian Public Information Act. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to establish a system of withdrawals, fines and administrative remedies for carriers that systematically violate the legitimate rights of ATO participants and family members who have died in the course of the extended journey. Eugene Ribczynski to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for information on the implementation of measures aimed at the cessation of membership and participation of Ukraine in SND bodies. Vladimir Katsuba to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Finance Minister of Ukraine, on the need to provide support to the machinery for the agricultural complex in 2017 through the financing of the budget programme "Financial support for actions in the agro-industry complex under the conditions of financial leasing" which will allow for the refurbishment and technical upgrading of machinery enterprises in Ukraine, increase the number of jobs and enable farmers to obtain affordable and quality technology for domestic production. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Council on the need to ensure adequate financing for the repair of the Dergachi Kozača Lopan road. Jurija-Bogdan Shuhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent correction of the erroneous conclusion of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine that the Fourth Hague Convention on the Laws and Customs of Land War of 18 October 1907 is not valid for Ukraine, which could result in such a situation that, if the state of war was declared by Ukraine to be armed and organized in certain military formations, including in the voluntary and guerrilla groups, in order to protect the country from the occupying forces, the actions of the Ukrainians could not be assessed, according to the mistaken conclusion of the Ministry, in the context of the provisions of this Convention. Maxim Burbak to the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the abuses of the construction of Dniestrów’s GAES. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recovery of the benefits and social guarantees of participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES. Groups of National Deputies (Larina, Shurma, and others) A total of 13 deputies) headed by the Supreme Council of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Heads of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the decision of the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Zaik, Zaiq, Zagradnim, Alexienko, Receburinski, Pasičnik. The Pasenik is aware of an unjust decision that violates the principle of the distribution of state authority and sets a precedent for the usurpation of state authority. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve individual issues regarding the granting of natural gas nominations to Pat "Harkovska TEC-5", with the aim of ensuring the guaranteed supply of thermal energy in the city of Kharkiv and Kharkiv. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for the provision of immediate medical assistance and for the necessary conclusions for the conduct of a transplant operation at a foreign clinic. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate examination and provision of hearing aid to a disabled child at the expense of budgetary resources. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for a review of the address of the Dodunai Social and Psychological Rehabilitation Centre of the Frontier for the establishment of a centre for socio-psychological rehabilitation of military personnel based on Military City No. 1 of the Ishmael Borders. Alexander Gerega to the head of the Hmělnick District Regional Administration, Director of the Hmělnický oblovtodor Daughter Enterprise, for the repair of roads in the village of Lisovod in the Hmělnické district. Alexander Gerega to the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Ukrainian Railways for the restoration of train movement No. 831/832, with a stop in the town of Deražna Hmelnická district. Alexander Nechayeva to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on ensuring compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the installation of gas accounting devices at the expense of gas distribution companies to consumers in Sumi and Sumski district. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine on the need to verify the actions of officials in the administration of the education of the Mikolayev City Council on double funding and non-earmarked use of budgetary resources. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the liquidation commission of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ovrutsky Mining and Enriching Combine "Qwarcite" for the collection of debt on a salary recognized in court. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the renovation of the premises of the Zitomir District Department of the Social Protection Fund. Jaroslava Dubnević, until he was temporarily acting as Chief of the Constantinen Police Department of the Bahmut Police Department of the HUNP in the Donetsk region, for the purpose of ensuring a comprehensive and impartial investigation into the crime of the death of a military officer. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the right to free residence in the orphanage of a war invalid. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to provide an answer by the Department of Social Policy of the Kyiv City Public Administration and to address the issue raised in the address. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need for the construction of a field office in the village of Grobište of the Czernovets region. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, Head of the District District Administration of the Montenegrin State Administration on the introduction of electricity and power lines in the village of Bobovci of the Chernobyl District to the proper technical condition and the increase of their power. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine to ensure compliance with the State's debt requirement for the disabled, Vasil Niwczyk and Adam Koselj. Alexander Dehtirczuk, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide life - sustaining medical supplies to the residents of the country who transferred the operation from the transplantation of the donor kidney. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Agency for the State Service on the non-admission of Dekhtirenko as Deputy Secretary of State for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. (again.) John Sporish to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the preparation of the Assembly of the All-Ukrainian Association of Local Self-Government Authorities "The Ukrainian Association of District and District Councils. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper discharge of her duties by officials of the Kyiv City State Administration as part of the systematic measures taken to eliminate unauthorized garbage dumps in the territory of the Darnicki district of Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to influence officials of the Kyiv City State Administration and to ensure the reconstruction of the pre-primary educational institution in the Darnitsk district of Kyiv. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of a report and information on the use of the funds of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the implementation in Ukraine of the project "Improvement of Health in the Service of Human Beings", in which our country received about $215 million. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to carry out a legal decision of the court, which significantly undermines the authority of the authorities of the State. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the establishment of justice in pension. Yurya Bublika to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of the National Museum of Headquarters for the families of Petluri and Screepniki in Poltava. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the National Agency of the State Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the procedural investigation into the facts of fraud committed by Catherine Holban (Fysun) in the provision of legal services to clients, the seizure of their funds, the presence of corruption in the detection of the crimes, and the admission of the person in question as a public official. Gregory Times to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the officials of the Montenegrin Bureau of Forensic and Medical Research for unlawful acts. Gregory Times to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the invocation of the responsibility of the staff of the Department of Preventive Action of the National Police in the Montenegrin Region in connection with the incident that took place on the evening of December 19, 2016 between the crew of the police car and the local residents of the village of Stanitz of the Głboczyk Region of Cherniewice. Michael Bondar to the technical director of the Public Shareholder Society of Lvivoblanergo for the construction of a hotel near the airline of 10 kilowatts on the street of John Sirk in the town of Kamyanka-Buzka Lviv district. Michael Bondar to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the issue of building an IT town in the former military area of A-1753 in the city of Kamyanka-Buzka Lviv district. Irina Ephraimov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the outstanding issue of the Ministry of Health regarding the assignment of Natalie Onanko, a graduate of the Higher Health Institute for Education, which was being trained on a government basis. Maxima Mikitas to the Chernigow City Head for the out-of-town housing of residents affected by the destruction of the Popudrenka street in Chernigow. Maxima Mikitas to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conduct of monetary valuation and damages to residents as a result of the destruction on December 12, 2016 of the Podrudrenka Street group, 16 in Chernigov. Helen Sotnik to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Economic Development and Trade for Sanctions against the Russian Federation for Organizing Terrorist Acts in Ukraine. Victoria Ptašnik to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to provide information on the number of educational institutions that are independent and centralized funds managers. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in 2017 for the construction and capital repair of social facilities in the Kudravishten region of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in 2017 for the construction and capital repair of social facilities in the Skuri district of Kyiv. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-closure of the shares offices of the Stock Exchange Association in the villages of Borodino and Berezine Tarutin district and the city of Arciz-2 of the Arciz district of Odessa. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a technical (temporary) passageway - the embankment or construction of a pontoon bridge on the international road M-15 Odessa-Reni near the settlement of Palanca (Republic of Moldova). Romana Macoli to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Director of the National Institute of Zolaringology of Professor Colomaychenk of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine for the provision of information on the financing of the National Program for the provision of deaf children by cochlear implantation systems for 2017. Romana Macola and Ruslan Solvara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures to prevent the liquidation of state forestry enterprises and the proper financing of Ukrainian forestry in 2017, in particular the Hmělnický district management of forestry and hunting. Alexander Kodola to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, to appeal to the representatives of the Bahamas City and the district councils of the Chernigiv region for the establishment of a regional medical district. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the appeal of the Director of the Municipal Enterprise "Nižinsky Water and Channel Management" to the Council of Montenegro. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Director of the State Institution, "The Ukrainian Centre for Socially Dangerous Disease Control of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine", Head of the Lviv District Public Administration, Head of the Lviv District Council on the Reasons and Reasons for Reorganization of the Municipal Institution of the Lviv District Council, "Sambir Anti-Tuberculosis Dispensor". Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders' association "Ukrainian Railway" for the purpose of assigning a train or group of trailers with the connection of Mariupol-Odes to improve railway connections. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the Dniprovsky District Office in Kiev, State Administration for the Unsatisfying Status of Asphalt Coverage in the Integral Territory of Housing Number 9 on the Adolescence Street in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Igor Vasjunika to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Realization of Property Rights in a Multi-Apartment House. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for the proper financial provision of the Kremenac Centre for Primary Health Training. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of a school in the village of Gai, Shevchenkovsky Ternopil district of Ternopil district. Vassil Janicky, head of the Provincial State Administration, head of the Rokitni District State Administration of the Plains Region for the maintenance of a medical facility in the village of Brezov Rokitni district of the Plains region. Vasil Janickýk to the Director of the Department of State Energy Inspectorate of the NEK "Ukrenergo" – Head of State Energy Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Rineoblanergo" on the use of measures for the proper supply of electricity in the Volodimirec region of the Plains region. Alexia Lensky, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the production of the project and cost-benefit documentation of the KLPC, the Nižin Anti-Tuberculosis Dissponsort, the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the construction of the dispensary, the replacement of obsolete equipment, the increase in the number of beds and the promotion of the settlement of the issue of the establishment by means of transport. Igor Lapin to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the activities of Pat KyivZNIEP. Stepan Ivahwa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine for War veterans and participants in the anti-terrorist operation for changes to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 719 "the issue of housing families of dead military personnel who participated directly in the ATO, as well as persons with disabilities from the I-II Group of Military Workers who participated directly in the operation and who require improvements in living conditions". Taras Batenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the provision of information on the allocation of subsidies to the local budgets of the united territorial communities, which were established in 2016 in the Lviv region. Tarasa Batenka to the head of the Central Electoral Commission on determining the terms of reference and the appointment of the first elections of the united territorial communities. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the free transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of the Pishchin village council of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv district of the state property premises for the placement of the municipal educational institution. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues related to the installation of building nodes for the calculation of natural gas. Jury Timoshenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of criminal procedural law for the search of housing. Yuri Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appointment of the Head of the State Road Agency. John Melniczuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to ensure that the death of Mikola Jermak is properly investigated. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for amendments to Cabinet Order No. 117 of 23 April 2014 Oleg Kulinić to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and Cadastra for the cessation of the right of permanent use of land. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to organize a proper hearing of the Maydan case at the Darnick District Court of Kiev. Anatoly of Denisenka to the minister of youth and sports of Ukraine to provide state support for sportsmen of the Kharkiv Underwater Sport Federation (flighting in the waist). Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the implementation of State policy on housing for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Oleni Matuzko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the deliberate, planned discreditation of the patriotic volunteer movement of the Zaporozko Region by law enforcement officials through unwarranted search of volunteers, the discovery of intentional criminal cases against volunteer activists, in particular the search on 15 December 2016 in Guliapole Zaporizki district in the house where the volunteer Pavlichenko and his family lived with significant violations of legislation and fabricated facts carried out by the senior OCC (UR) RUNP in the Kovalenko police district and the OCC (UR) RUNP in the Obstégé Region of Fisun police. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Vinnicki Urban Head, Head of the Viennese Regional Organization of the All-Ukrainian Physical and Sport Society of the Colossus Agro-industry complex of Ukraine, on the transfer to private property of rooms, residents of the dormitory on the street of General Arabea, 3-A in Winnice. Alexander Brigintz to the prosecutor of the Chernigiv region, the head of the General Administration of the Ministry of Montenegro, the head of the Chernigiv district government, on the situation surrounding the right to manage property owned by the deceased and the heirs did not accept an inheritance. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, on the urgent need to verify the activities of the Coastal Psychneurological Internet. Rudika's branch to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the urgent settlement of the issue of the size of cost-effective wages when calculating the cost of road and other types of construction, at the expense of budgetary resources, public and municipal enterprises, institutions and organizations, as well as loans made under State guarantees. Jury Miroshnitzka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the urgent resolution of the issue of land tax payments by the enforcement agencies and the investigative insulator. Jury Miroshnickenka to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the cessation of torture, the excess of authority and the abuse of authority by employees in the Dnipro No. 4 detention facility. Valeria Davidenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of train stops at the Bachmach-Pasažirski railway station. Sergey Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, on the threat posed by Atkins Thomson to the European media for publishing material on the possible corruption of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the political party "Block of Peter Prashenka", the political party's leadership, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and their cooperation with the lawyer company Atkins Thomson. Sergia Vlasenka to the head of the Isiaslav Correctional Colony of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine in Hmelnicke District (No31) regarding the conduct of citizen Láško Oleg Valeriyovich during the punishment for fraud in Isiaslav Correctional Colony No. 31. Jacob Besbach to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for a reopened impartial review of the collective appeal of members of the Hutir Redka Group on the results of the removal of infringements during pretrial investigations and the enforcement of the legality of the 2008 investigation and the provision of effective prosecutorial supervision from May 2015 for the objective protection of the rights of members of the garden society under the current Ukrainian legislation. Jacob Besbach to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, regarding the need for a comprehensive examination of the conditions for the long-term conduct of executive action by the authorities of the State executive service. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the provision of clarifications on how to apply the standards of article 141, paragraph 141.1, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Insurance and Insurance Contracts. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the non-encouragement of the construction of the LBK-OIL oil refinery on agricultural land within the administrative boundaries of the Semenian Rural Council of the Barish district of Kiev. Vitalia Kurila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the disposal of explosions at the Ukrainian Armed Forces on October 29, 2015, in the city of Svatov Lugansk region. Oxana Bilozer to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head on the verification of information on violations of the rules of the Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagation of Their Symbolism by individual public organizations, in which former communist officials operate under the form of veterans, as well as the ineffective use by these community organizations of the municipal property of Kyiv. Paul Kishkar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Fund for Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases of Ukraine, the National Securities and Stock Markets Commission, the Fund of State Property of Ukraine for State Interest in the Bankruptcy Procedure of the Open Shareholder Society "Herson cotton combination". Victor Krivenk to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to provide information on the number of PAT counters installed, Zaporozhygaz. Victor Krivenk to the State Fiscal Service's energy customs regarding the systematic baseless detention of T.O.V. "SPG PLUS" goods on energy duty. Panels of People’s Deputies (Palamarchy, Kiskara, Krivenka) to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure to execute a court decision by investigators of the Follow-up Department of Financial Investigations of the DPA in the Right-wing District of the General Directorate of the DFS in Kiev, Toustenkom M.S. about the return of property belonging to Mega Land. Irina Suslowy, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the sports course in the village of Kulčica in the district of Lviv. Sergey Leschchenka to the temporary duty of Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding possible financial offences committed by Kyiv’s chief physician at Hospital No. 3 Palamarem B.I. Sergey Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible involvement of the IMF leadership in the illegal activities of the online and online gaming networks. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of citizens' rights and for the cessation of illegal actions by the Head of the Vossijov Office of the National Police in Kiev. Victor Romanyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for $14 million, a dog killed. And why, for more than six months, we have been releasing officials who demean the Ukrainian people by working for the nation of the aggressor!? Victor Romanyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the systematic and showy abuse and looting of the Ukrainian people by the former National Deputy of the Party of the Regions, Ruslan Badejev. Alexander Villukla to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for overseeing the investigation of criminal conduct that was violated in connection with the attacks on the deputy of the City Council of Dnipropetrov Sergey Sukhanova in connection with his activities regarding the detection of corruption schemes for the local authorities of Dnipra. Jury Solovya to the head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration for the opening of the crossing point and for the construction of the road through the Ukrainian-Romanian state border. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the head of the Hmelnick district government, the head of the Theophilus District Council of the Hmelnick district on the completion of the construction of the Theopoli district cultural building in the Hmelnitsk district. Andrija Šinkovič to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Hmelnicka District Administration, Head of the Hmelnicka District Regional Administration, Head of the Hmelnicka District Regional Administration, Head of the Bilogira District Council of the Hmelnicka Region for the completion of the construction and implementation of the Zaluza Public School of the Bilogir Region of Hmelnicka. Jury Derevyanka to the Human Rights Council-designate on the implementation of the Privacy Bank PAT legislation on personal data protection. Jury Devyanka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the state of implementation of the purchase of specialized vehicles with a hybrid power plant for the needs of the National Police. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Chop City Council, regarding the need for an objective review of the appeal of the resident of the city of Chop Zakarpatsk district, a veteran and military pensioner, a participant in the fighting of Vasilina Yuri Mihajlovich on the issue of housing. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the address of the resident of the Primorski District of Odessa, the disabled of the second group of Vijacheslav Alexijinka on a comprehensive solution to the issue of ensuring the integrity and continuity of the provision of housing services and electricity services, as well as adequate assistance for the timely payment of such services. Groups of National Deputies (Kuzel, Leshchenka, Semimenha) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of comprehensive information on the results of criminal conduct in relation to the ex-representative of the head of DSUNS Oleg Averianov. Groups of National Deputies (Kuzel, Leshchenka, Semimenha) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of comprehensive information on the use of Ukraine's State Budget for the purchase of fire trucks in T.O. "Industry Company" Andrija Galchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Pecher District Court of Kiev. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the construction of the Substance Public Education School I-II graduated from the Oleuvian Region of the Žitomir Region. Jury Lewchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the reply to the parliamentary request from 17 November 2016, submitted with the requirements for the cessation of illegal construction at the Geroivo Dnipra Metro Station in Kiev. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the determination of the amount of public funds needed to stabilise and restore the payment capacity of PAT "Private Bank", providing information on methods and legal acts on the basis of which the need for PAT "Private Bank" has been established in an additional capital, recognizing its insolvent and necessity for the State to enter the capital of the bank. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures concerning the arrangement between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of a memorandum on the mutual recognition of maritime working documents of seafarers. Alexander Opanasenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the criminal activity of an organized extremist group in Ukraine. Yurya Berezi to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the actions (inaction) of the head of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrzalznica" Wojciech Balchun. Yurya Bereza is headed by the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for the restoration of the transport link between the village of Maryanivka and the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region, namely the bus No.105 (the town of Yellow Waters – the village of Maryanovka). We finished reading the queries. We have another announcement. According to the application and in accordance with article 60, part 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mishchenka, Sergey Grigorovitch, from the deputy faction "Block of Petra Poroshenko". I'm offering us this order of work: so we can take a break now by 12.30 and come back to take a look. For discussion at the Vulnerable. Thank you. Then by 12:30, we have a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Everyone take your seats, get ready to write. Ready? Okay. Can we keep a record? Please record for the performances. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska. Rules - 6 minutes. Please, Oleg Lazko, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u47	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! It ends in 2016. I want to thank each and every one of you for supporting our team. I want to thank everyone who voted for the Radical Party in 2014 in the parliamentary elections. These two years in Parliament, my constituency, we have done everything we can to implement the Radical Party programme and your instructions. Thanks to you, dear people, we are here in Parliament. Thanks to your trust and support. And these sociological surveys show that over the past two years, your support for our team has grown even more. Because we're not sitting here wiping our pants, we're not just criticizing how bad things are, each of you knows how bad it is. But each of you is waiting for us to decide that you have a job, a salary, so that you can feed your families and look with confidence at tomorrow. For us in the first place, for me, as party leader, I certainly care about ratings, my own ratings, party ratings, I tell you frankly and frankly. But when you take the scales, the weight, the ratings of my party or the fate of the country, its future, your welfare, the cost of even losing my own rating, I choose the second. I like my ratings if these ratings are at the price of poverty, if these ratings are at the price of populism, deception and lies. My strength is that I don't lie to people. From my childhood home, from boarding school, where I was raised for 16 years, I learned to tell the truth. It's our power, but it's our weakness, because most politicians are just lying. This lie keeps them in power, thanks to this lie we today have a broken country, there is no government, there is no responsible authority, there is no national parliament, thanks to this lie, millions of people who have worked hard all their lives, received pennies, and because of this lie, people die like flies, in Ukraine. And so my team's task is to radically change the state of affairs in the country. Economic growth, creating new jobs, overcoming beggary and poverty, security, defense, national dignity, that's the key tasks that lie ahead. It is impossible to build a state when there is no foundation, the foundation of an independent Ukraine, for which people have laid their lives on the Maidan, for which people die on the front today. This foundation is based on several whales. Ukrainian language, the national church, Ukrainian culture and spirituality, and a powerful, strong economy are four main components. What did we achieve in this year? Double the minimum wage. I say it's a revolutionary decision that we should have made a long time ago, but no one did. Each government was raised by 5 to 7 percent. Why? Because they are comfortable with you being poor, they are comfortable giving you taxes so that you are dependent on them. And I want you, my dear Ukrainians, to be independent, independence gives you plenty. When you have the opportunity to feed your family and to earn, not to walk, to collect subsidies, to pay taxes, to pay before the election, two weeks before the election. So independence gives you a job when each of you has a job, not going abroad to take pots there for 300 euros. Therefore, the Radical Party policy is a radical increase in the income of Ukrainians, Ukrainians' purchasing power, pensions, wages, and other incomes. But for the budget to be able to pay wages and pensions, the national economy has to work. And that's why we did everything this year to support and develop national production. Unlike the President, the government that trades in national interests: the forest, the land, the retirement age. We say that trade is needed with goods made in Ukraine, made by Ukrainians, by Ukrainian labor. [[Applause]] And so we protected the woodwork, we protected the land, we supported the metallurgy, we allowed the air to breathe to energy and miners. We finally got billions of people in the budget. We have made it possible for people from the New Year to receive free medicine, thus saving hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. This is our task: a rich, strong, independent Ukraine! Only radically can we change the situation. Glory to Ukraine! And the New Year!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u48	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy of Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u49	Good day, dear Ukrainians, dear Ukrainian people! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to welcome the entire state with the upcoming Christmas celebrations, with the coming New Year! And maybe a little bit of 2016 summary. What have we done this year? We were actually building a foundation, rebuilding the foundation of our statehood. We have launched very important reforms in the state. Like judicial reform, changing the Constitution and enacting basic laws. As an electronic declaration, increasing the accountability of thousands, tens of thousands of Ukrainian officials and politicians. They've started reforming the public service. Yeah, with huge job failures, but it's a start. And in the coming years, this is going to be a completely changed philosophy of this reform. They've started reforming state administrations. We finally started a Ukrainian song on Ukrainian radio. And in fact, they completely cleaned up the banking system, and in fact, the end of this pain treatment process was the Nationalization of Private Bank. And it's actually starting next year to restore credit and trust in the banking system. So the following year, 2017, can be considered the year of institution reconstruction. Because we adopt quality laws, we adopt systemic changes. But in fact, there are no hands to make these changes. The reconstruction of institutions, the institutional capacity of the Ukrainian State, should be a priority for the following year. What needs to be restored and reformed in the field of environmental protection is that I am the secretary of the environmental committee. This is a prioritization of environmental and environmental protection as a priority of public policy. Because it is far from our priority right now, and it affects both the environment and the health of the nation. This is a new law and an approval of the waste strategy. Now that you've had enough garbage, it's time to start cleaning up. We have a strategy, and I hope we'll confirm it in the next few months. The Waste Act is a challenge directly for our committee. This is the introduction, finally, of laws on environmental impact assessment and strategic environmental assessment, and next year of the introduction of these two institutions. This is a reform of environmental control and surveillance. It's a challenge for us because there's the biggest corruption, there's the biggest inaction. And this is reform, finally, of the forest farm. In the coming month, I hope that we will develop and adopt an effective and effective forest policy and also establish and implement institutional reforms in this area next year. So, dear Ukrainians, there are still many challenges for us. We've built a foundation, but we need walls, roofs and the entire infrastructure of our state to be rebuilt. Glory to Ukraine! Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u50	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Yegor Soboljeva, "The Self-Help Union." Oh, no, I'm sorry, there's another one. Oh, yeah, yeah, that's right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u51	Carefree citizens of Ukraine are beginning to do one very important thing in various cities. They come to the officials and say, explain your property, tell us the secret of how you've become so successful, we want the whole country to be so successful. This was the case with one of the tax officials in Kiev, and this was the case with the treasury manager in Volina. I hope this happens in every Ukrainian city and town. The French philosophers of the Enlightenment period said: The law cannot be approved, it can only be opened. And what is happening right now with the Anti-Corruption Act, when it becomes a weapon in the hands of citizens, in the hands of real citizens, who start with themselves and demand others to implement this law, confirms this rule. I'm sure this is the most important challenge for 2017 in the area of anti-corruption. Journalists, public organizations fighting corruption, volunteers who want this state to become good and successful as soon as possible, I ask in all cities to visit officials, ask questions and ask them to resign all those who cannot explain their property. There's going to be a lot of sabotage, there's going to be a lot of words, there's going to be a lot of attempts to escape responsibility. Our experience shows that if we are united, if we are persistent, everything comes within us, and nothing goes within them. This year’s law on amnesty, including those involved in fighting, was by no means the last law passed by this Parliament. A law that was very unwelcome by national MPs. The law that was promised by the President. But thanks to the active position of the boys who have returned from the front and who understand the importance of such decisions, many families of supporters of this state who are behind the bars of this state will again see their husbands, their brothers, their sons at large. I encourage you to use this experience all 2017. And our most important achievement should be the introduction as part of the culture, the political culture of Ukraine. If a politician cannot explain his property, if the official cannot explain how he became so rich, he must stop being both a politician and an official.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u52	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u53	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! We're too few, but we're in the flesh. But at the same time, I'm going to say that we've come to a new year, the Supreme Council has accepted a lot of positive things, maybe a lot of negative things, we've adopted a budget, a lot of budget issues are set up, where there's a positive. But at the same time, we'd like to do a lot more because there's a lot more that we haven't done in agriculture, for example, to keep our taxes. Part of what we did was for animal farming, for the beet industry, but, at the same time, we wanted the village to be protected, for the future, by peasants, by farmers, by small farms. In one of our budget programs, it's a youth-building program called Own House, where 3 percent of rural youth can take credit and build. Thousands of people, thousands of our peasants, used this program. Unfortunately, it's clear that our budget deficit is about 150 billion, and, at the same time, the government was very eager to do everything possible and impossible for the Youth Building Program of the Own House to be budgeted. And if God gives, all good and our government will work in the new year, we have to make changes and do everything we can so that rural families can build up so they can get these loans. Because we see that thousands of young families have taken advantage of this program, and that's why we would very much like to do everything so that these funds can provide loans to young people in the country and that we can do it in 2017. And for 2018, we're going to set up, we're going to give God a budget, we're going to do everything we can to make the "own house" construction program bigger, it's a big plus to save the village to save the rural youth. I also wanted to ask about the fraudulent actions of some businesses. You know, right now we have a lot of other scamming schemes where they're covering up some sort of organ and doing some kind of scam. For example, I received a call from Winnitzkina, the "Victorious" village of High, where the firm located in Kiev street Melnikovova, 12 is called the "Ekokorm". And you know, it's not just this Ecokorm company called, it's also called Goldagro, it's called Agroline, it's called Avangarde, and it's called MVR, and it's also called Goldagro. So I would very much like to have the appropriate organs. So that we could do this company, the more it has the code.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u54	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u55	Yes! I'm asking that this is going to be my MP's appeal. And I'd like that. The company's code was 401836826593. You can use this code to calculate the company and order it because it deceives all Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u56	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u57	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, I remember today the time of the Soviet Union when two famous cartoonists performed on the stage -- the people of the older generation remember Strepsel and Tarapunka. Tarrapunka Stépsel asked, says, "Listen," and what if you talk about your refrigerator, you always have a lot and lots of stuff in there? And Steepsel says to him, "Where do you turn on your refrigerator so it's empty?" – "Well, where to? To the rosette!" He says, "Here's the thing! I'm at the power station. In a radio station." So you listen to our government report, we have everything: and we buy drugs cheaply, and education is financed, and housing and utility tariffs are completely normal. But the average person who goes into the pharmacy is going to realize that today they can't ask about cheap drugs -- they just don't have them -- at free drug stations, virtually, they're not, because they're not purchased. Well, what can we talk about if today, according to a report by the Ministry of Health in the region, 86 percent of the money allocated in 2015. And at the time, the international organizations that are being paid 5 percent of the total today are actually 250 million dollars, and today they're not supplying those drugs to our institutions, they just don't exist today. It is paradoxical that, for 2017, the same organizations are once again identified as essential for the purchase of drugs. It is also very sad that the Health Committee today does not even award contracts. Today, international organizations have held a round table with a corset, with sandwiches there, with everything reported for 2015. And they're already talking about plans in 2017. But in 2016 no drugs were purchased, think of no medication. Today, everything lies on the shoulders of our patients. Under such circumstances, we should ask, and why is there nothing to do with health care reform today, and why are such uncontrolled processes today? Because there is no health headmaster. Call me, we all want to go to the European Union, at least one European state, where nine months can't have a government that has a coalition and most of them to appoint a health minister. But then a man and a woman could love each other, give birth to a child. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister: "Break up, apply for the post of Minister of Health, there'll be no chief, there'll be no order in the field." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u58	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk. Rules - 6 minutes. He is speaking along with the voice given to him by the national deputy Kuprienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u59	Respectful Ukrainian entrepreneurs, employers, industrialists, investors! The Radical Party faction thanks you for your efforts to preserve the productive potential for jobs. We know how hard this year was. We, thanks to your support, are implementing Ukrainian national industrial policy in Ukraine. Despite the opposition from the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and others, unfortunately, institutions. Dear colleagues, what have we been able to do for the industry this year despite this resistance? For woodworking, you know, last year we chose a moratorium on the export of roundwood, and this year we kept it, and we didn't cancel it, despite the pressure of the government, despite the President's statements in the European Union, because saving a moratorium on the export of roundwood is for the benefit of Ukrainian ecology, Ukrainian industry and every citizen of Ukraine, so that our forest can be transformed into furniture, paper, pellets, boards in Ukraine to create jobs and feed Ukrainians and not go abroad for nothing, where we will then take foreign currency loans and pay them off at a rate of 10 years. You know, a few days ago, in a budget package, a faction of the Radical Party was able to enter a VAT payment schedule for imported woodworking equipment. This essentially wastes equipment for Ukrainian manufacturers, and we'll also be able to make a difference in import duties to woodworking equipment. The moratorium works even more powerfully than it showed this year. We have introduced to Parliament a bill supported by a profile committee: criminalizing the smuggling of roundwood forests at the same level as smuggling of drugs and weapons. Metallurgy. For Ukrainian metallurgy, we have chosen this year to triple the export duty for scrap metal. This allowed for Ukrainian metallurgy, a mining and metallurgical complex of raw materials, so that they could not cut jobs, but compete with foreign producers. This is more than 300,000 Ukrainians who provide a large portion of our country’s foreign currency. On this currency, the stability of the bracelet is maintained. This is definitely one of the priority sectors of our economy, because this is a quarter of the Ukrainian industry. We have also managed to remove the import duty on scrap metal to make the raw material as cheap as possible for Ukrainian producers. Next. High-tech fields of aviation and space. You know the bill that we let the State Enterprise Antonov create joint ventures, including manufacturing with foreign partners. This will allow Anton's not only to be reborn as an airplane factory, but to compete in foreign markets with other powerful manufacturers so that Ukrainian Antonov planes can be seen worldwide in the sky, not just in museums and not just in history textbooks. The adoption is equally important, and we insist on this, Bill 5113 on the restructuring of the debt of the South Seas, this pearl of the Ukrainian space industry. Without the adoption of this law, Ukraine’s space industry is in danger of collapse. So the faction of the Radical Party and the Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship generally insist that the immediate adoption of a bill supported by the Committee in order to restructure the debt owed to the Southern Seas, save jobs and make it work normally for this strategic enterprise in Dniper. Next. You know, in our budget package, we've been able to freeze land tax and rent land at 6 percent for industry. The government wanted to do this index, raise it automatically to inflation. We didn't let it happen. No 15 percent, no 10 percent! 6 percent -- that was the compromise that we pushed the government to adopt this law. Today, this essentially freezes the payment of land taxes and rents for the entire Ukrainian industry, especially the machine of builders, all entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, this is a very important anti-crisis action. Towards animalry. A total land tax freeze was achieved for the agrarians. We have also introduced bills that provide subsidies -- over 4,000 dollars for every cow held by individual agriculture and farmers. This will be an important step in supporting Ukrainian animal production. We insist on the adoption of these laws at the very beginning of the following year. And finally, a historic law was passed in general on an expert credit agency. That will take an important step to change Ukraine's path, its raw drift trajectory and its dependence on IMF and European Union loans to turn to the road and become a manufacturer of ready-made production that builds its own economy, ensures the work of its own citizens and lives, not at the expense of foreign taxes, but at the expense of the development of its own industry, economy and business. I call upon all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u60	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u61	Mikhailo Head, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear friends, dear colleagues, I would like to raise a very important question, which today, which depends on the socio-economic situation of our country in principle, is the situation of Crushing. I have recently received interesting documents, this decision by two judges, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine since 2013, as well as the approval of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of Ukraine since 19.01.2016, in which it is practically acknowledged that it is not a public company. And accordingly, according to those institutions, the court's rulings, today's Crushing doesn't extend the Act on the Management of State Property Objects. Accordingly, there is no obligation to make a decision on the calculation of at least 30 percent of the net income on dividends, or the payment of dividends to the state budget. I mean, in principle. I'm asking you not to interrupt me. Appropriately, the commercial transactions that run this enterprise are the norm of this law. they don't fall under the rules of the state, and the risks, the corruption risks, are increasing accordingly. The results of financial activity are now refused to conduct financial inspections. I'm sorry, don't interrupt me. Financial inspection, audit and other organs. Because according to these standards, this institution is practically a public stockholder society that is the founder of the Naftogaz NAC. NAK Naftogaz is not fully controlled by the state. It's basically who it is, who's in charge of this structure, who's the director of this structure, who's practically the owner of this structure. Today's calculations that he's getting about, because there was going to be an expected operating profit, Crushing is going to be over 60 billion in the next year. It's a huge amount of money that goes past the government budget, and it's a huge amount of money that officials, like Prokhorenko and others, are now in charge of that structure. They're assigning themselves a salary of over a million dollars, a salary of over a million dollars. At the time, it was clear that neither the Prime Minister nor the President would set such salaries. Why can these people do this? Because this structure, of course, is not a state structure. They can hire both wages and 10 million and 20 million. They're talking about the diagrams of the Destroyer. Such schemes of Oneshchenka, such as they themselves have legalized, and they are operating according to these schemes. Because this is today's mining, the Crushing, the cost of the order of 1,600 dollars, and the population is sold 7 thousand dollars. In fact, there is a net profit of four and a half thousand dollars with all the taxes. These four and a half thousand dollars are more than 60 billion, sitting in the pockets of so-called dishonest officials. So I'm still asking the government to pass an immediate decree to get Crushing directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u62	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u63	The Crushing was directly controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and it was appropriate for it to be a state institution. If they nationalized Private Bank, please nationalize Crushing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u64	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Moses. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I beg of you! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll close the meeting now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u65	Well, what's up? Where am I going to get them to plow?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u66	Please, National Deputy Museiczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u67	Dear Ukrainian people! To sum up the year, we cannot fail to mention our accomplishments. Against the backdrop of the war, the Radical Party faction was able to achieve, in two years, its demands were double the minimum wage. Promises from the government to introduce free medicine not only for pensioners but also for all citizens of the country. But some of the directors of the state - owned plant have decided to give a gift to the Ukrainians. That's right, the Railroads government has decided to increase freight and plantation tariffs. Instead of fighting corruption at the Crucify, instead of destroying the schemes of corruption, the Polish team raises the shipping tariffs, raises the tariffs for our citizens to travel to the Crucibles. It's a disgraceful phenomenon. And it has to be stopped. Because Crossroads is used by every other citizen, because it depends on all the business, all the production of our country. And the increase in shipping tariffs, that's the rise in prices. This is essentially a subversion to the Ukrainian economy, undermining the well-being of our citizens. In addition, I would like to thank my fellow countrymen for the support given to our team, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, in the elections to local communities. We thank you for trusting us, for identifying our first place in the elections, the Poltava united territorial communities. We're not gonna fail, we're gonna continue to defend your interests, we're not gonna have any schools shut down, no FAPs. I thank my team for being able to resist the forgeries prepared by the team of Moscow Zosuls led by Ruslan Bogdan in Poltavian. Thank you. And shame on those who use Janukovich's methods. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u68	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Andrew Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u69	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. There's a war going on. This is the 23rd war Russia is waging against Ukraine. And for almost three years, they've been killing the best of the best. If we, brothers and sisters, do not honor those who give up our lives for our independence, why will we teach our children and the generation to come? So it's amazing that a brilliant Ukrainian musician, a contratenor, a bass baritone, a prima grand-oper, a native of Donbas, born in a Lugansk village, is the Bahmut district of the Donetsk region, the father of the legendary Dudarik Chapel, Vasil Slipak, who was applauded by the most important halls of the world. He went from Paris to his home country, to the front, and, in the form of a volunteer Ukrainian Corps, "Right Sector" was killed by a sniper bullet. We could honor his name, and I address it, and many fellow members of the Radical Party not only signed this petition to call the National Philharmonic in Kiev the name of the Hero of Ukraine Vasil Blindak. And not in the new year, and never in life forget the feats of those who choose our independence, our freedom, our statehood in this difficult war. And to finish with the words of the requiem, which was written by our Ukrainian poet Dmitry Lazutkin, these words were put on music by my friend John Lenho, anyone can listen. And those hurtful words are a sign of memory, a tribute to every fallen man on the front. "By the laws of mathematics, minus the rate of minus the time. The sky is weeping, the soldiers, the sky is weeping for you. Someone believed on the map of the routes, someone looked at the stars from the caves. Undiscovered parachutes will call you now. In the wet grass, the sun was broken like amber. Today, the sky is roaring with the hills, and the wild plains are bitter with the plains. Motherland or territory. Each one chooses his own course. It is a bloodbathed story, like a nail in a tree. Your crosses, your shelters, your truth, your grief and more. That's how it went down, according to the rules of ballistics, so it blossomed with silent fire. You are still awaited, yet to be begged, yet to be swallowed by news lines, and your eyes pierced by circles, these bereaved Ukraines. And there's nothing through the tears, and there's a shivering axis whitening. Today, the sky is weeping, and the candle is coming down. For all things, the God-Forgived angels will be poured out of their mouths. Sleep forever, boys, this is your land forever." Heroes don't die! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u70	Heroim Slava! Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ribak. Excuse me, can you tell me, and the national deputy of Shapovalov is? Yes. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u71	Shapovalov Yuri, 146 constituency, Kremenchuk, non-factional. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of two interesting votes in this room for the appointment of a government with the Prime Minister and a vote for the Attorney General. Before voting for the Attorney General, the Lucenka family went to the rostrum and declared a conflict of interest and a refusal to vote personally. At the same time, a month earlier, Mr. Groissman and several of our colleagues personally voted in favour of the appointment of Prime Minister and Ministers in the formation of the government. The question is: Unless they had a personal conflict of interest. And where, then, are the law enforcement agencies that should draw them to administrative responsibility? Now let me explain how such questions are addressed in local authorities in the example of Cremenczuk in Poltava. After the local elections at the end of last year, the newly elected deputies of the Kremenchuck City Council voted in favour of forming an executive committee of the City Council. It's usually a formal procedure, and so do all the newly elected deputies in all the local councils of Ukraine, but in Kremenchuk, the prosecutor's office decided otherwise. She made records of corruption on those deputies who voted in favour of their election to the council. Kremenchuck’s prosecutor, Skripka, who was appointed in spite of the results of the open competition because he has a relative working in the Attorney General’s Office, has been after the boys for several weeks to give them protocols on corruption. The local press has applauded, not started to work, but already corrupters, so we have a new power. The judge of the Kremenchuk District Court of Carinthia, Oksana Palchik, found guilty of administrative misconduct in connection with the corruption of the elected deputies. Almost the same was done by the judge of the Poltava Court of Appeal, Vasil Milichenko. Dear colleagues, it turns out that the Cremenchu prosecutor and the appointed judges see the corruption of the vote of deputies for their election to the executive bodies, and the Attorney General's Office of the Supreme Council does not see the vote. Otherwise, it is necessary to draw up protocols on corruption against Vladimir Groysman, our fellow MPs, who recently voted for themselves when the government and the Prime Minister were approved. Dear colleagues, what is double justice, double standards? I am addressing the Attorney General. Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! You said you wanted to reform the D.A.'s office. Please note this problem. The D.A. doesn't have to keep up with the indicators. He has to do real things. I'm addressing the High Council of Justice and the High Qualifications Commission of Judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u72	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u73	Judge Kremenczuka Oksana Palčik and Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Vasil Melichenko are asked to examine the actions of Judge Vasil Melichenko of the Kremenczuk District Court of Justice on the decision to take an administrative action. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u74	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u75	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! On the other hand, I would like to welcome everyone with the coming year 2017, with Christmas Christ, to wish them all the best in the coming year. During the difficult year 2016, together with my voters and with the support of the Ukrainian government, we were able to do many important things in the territory of Visniky, Putilski, Starożinetski and Kitzmansk regions that I represent in Parliament today. So we made energy - efficient and energy - efficient arrangements, renewed road cover, renovated schools, clubs, and kindergartens, and purchased computer and multimedia equipment for training in public schools, and purchased equipment for kindergartens and sports halls. Neither the need for treatment nor the youngest inhabitants of the Highlands, the Chinese, the Travelling Islands, and the Old Testament were overlooked. My district has received funds for the first clean-up buildings in the region, beginning in 1984, to improve the environmental situation in Vidinska and Kitzmanska region of Cherniewec and in a number of regions of the Frankish region. Thanks to the new sewage treatment system, the state of the beautiful river Chermosch and Prut will be improved. The following year 2017 will probably not be easier. But I hope that it will be equally effective and promising. Thank you all for your attention. We'll do more together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Rosenbalat. People's MP Rosenblatt. That's what they used to say. Don't worry, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Muschak, he was here. I watch, honourable national deputies, I make sure that those who did not participate in the recording, or those who were not physically present in the hall, do not pass the word on to other colleagues. Therefore, only those who were physically recorded were given the word. [[Noise Nodes]] Please, please, National Deputy Rosenblatt, has given him the word of National Deputy Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people, today we can sum up 2016. What did he remember to us deputies? What did he remember about the people of Ukraine? First of all, reform is the most successful reform – decentralization. Today, there is much to be said about it, much to be heard by critics, but most of all, it is believed in. And the last elections last week testify to that. Today I can just point out that even the fact that even the factions that repeatedly say in the walls of Parliament that it's a genocide of the Ukrainian people are actively taking part in these elections and claiming their victories or losses, but most importantly, it's going to our country. What do we mean by that? First of all, we're handing financial opportunities to our regions, we're handing them financial tools that they can use in their places. But we also hand over the responsibility for the distribution of money, as used in these funds, for the responsibility of the tenders. We want to emphasize that, indeed, today is the great responsibility of the local authorities toward the people who choose them. I would also like to point out those reforms that, in fact, this year would be the first to succeed. This is the question of the ProZorro system, which will now virtually save billions of dollars. It's a matter of budget night -- a judicial reform that we've adopted in this room, and we've put a fat spot in the creation of the Justice Council. We're going to use this tool, and we're going to change practically the judicial corps. We're going to put a fat dot in the fight against corruption, because the Ukrainian courts are going to condemn corrupters, and they're not going to be able to steal any more money from Ukrainian citizens. I want to point out that we have created the Road Fund, which will enable road construction, will enable people to understand that Ukraine is not just a road, but Ukraine, first of all, is a beautiful road. And that's what we've given to our country. I want to point out that the budget we've adopted is also a growth budget. Because not even just the salary, but the fact that since January 1st we've been reducing the cost of electricity by 10 percent, from April 5th to 5.7 the cost of electricity. That's the question that we raise social standards, but we're reducing the cost of services and everything else. What would I like to point out? There is much more to be done in the coming year. I'm really worried today about the issue of amber, which is still not legalized; the question of the gaming business that today brings crazy money into the pockets of law enforcement; I'm interested in the issue of privatization that we're constantly talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u78	15 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u79	So, I think we all have a huge challenge: to make the well-being of our population, our people, in such a way that we really fight, not low tariffs, but poverty, once and for all. That's all we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u80	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u81	Vladimir Litwin, People's Party, Zitomirst. Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! 2016 is multiplied and marked by complex challenges and complex events and shocks for the Ukrainian people, for Ukraine. They have, to be honest, taken advantage of the positive aspects of these problems. At the same time, the authorities issue what they want to be real, repeating in essence Stalin's famous thesis: "Life has become better, life has become more fun." They predict that 2017 will be even more dramatic and unpredicted. Then, first of all, the desire that 2017 be less stressful and more predictable for peace to enter Ukraine, every family, and home. So that good and success can become an everyday life for everyone, regardless of age, political beliefs, and political orientation! To have the life and the creative powers of every person for life every day! To eliminate fear and anxiety for the coming day! May the hearts always be in harmony with the mind, in order to establish a mental balance, loyal friendship, and love! And above all, to enjoy health — to relax or to be sick today — let it be a luxury exclusively for the rich. Together, let us do our utmost to ensure that the love of some patriots in power does not grow into hatred and violence toward the people! To prevent strife, strife, and opposition from becoming a reality of the country’s everyday life! So that self - proclaimed reformers do not view the people as animals that do not catch up with their seven - year reform efforts! We deserve wise and responsible authority, and we must strive for that kind of authority. I ask God that the Most High and destiny give us in 2017 not so much as what we want, but, above all, what is absolutely essential to Ukraine and the people: peace, good and worthy of life. Let us be, dear colleagues, consolidated and courageous for the truth. Let us be united and act in harmony on this. With the New Year and Christmas Christ! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u82	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy of Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u83	Dear friends, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to address a very difficult question during my speech, the question of how much we understand what is going on in the country and how much the state understands what is going on in this room. I wonder if there are citizens who read laws and bills and say, "You know, that's great, now you're voting on something and I'm going to live better." Sadly, people do not feel the consequences of our even legislative changes. For them there are simple questions: "When will tariffs be cheaper? When's the dollar 8 like it used to be? When am I going to feel safe and when am I going to get a decent salary?" And our task with you is to answer that question, because every person lives in this world with a dream, with the hope that it will be better, better not even for themselves, better for children, better for the community, better for the family. That's why our task is to make clear what action plan we're doing, how we're going to do it, how we're protecting the rights of these citizens, how we're protecting our own family and our own state. We've lost Crimea, we've lost Donetsk, Lugansk, we've lost control of these areas, it's our territory that's lost. But our task is to clearly protect our territory, because the war is not just on Donbassa, the war is taking place in the banking sphere, in this Parliament where the Kremlin's mercenaries are. It's these people. Their goal is not to be 24 or 8 but 65 rubles. That's why our job is to be proud of the state, to make plans, to make these plans, to make a fair trial, to defend the rights of lawyers. In fact, in recent times, I have heard more and more that lawyers themselves are the goal of being destroyed by certain law enforcement agencies. And I assure you that Parliament will defend the rights of lawyers, because without lawyers there will be no right, there will be no right, there will be no state. That's why we protect the rights of our citizens, we protect the state, we protect the interests of Ukraine. And that is when citizens will support us when they feel that we support them. Glory to Ukraine! Yes, let God give us harmony and victory next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u84	Thank you. I invite you to your word, yes. There is no National Deputy Lucenka, there is no Tretjakov. Please, the national deputy of Semimenach, gave him the word of the people’s deputy Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u85	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, I would like to remind all of us of the basic promise that we all made during the election races that we gave people, namely, to undo the parliamentary integrity. In this room, there is no political power in the Supreme Council Hall that does not promise this in the election race, but that is not the case. What's more, there's no party that doesn't ask the question of whether the MPs should be simple to be equal to the equal. Moreover, the requirement of lifting parliamentary immunity was the basic requirement of the people of Maidan. Colleagues, without solving this issue, we will not break the circle message with you, we will not restore people’s trust in the Ukrainian Parliament. Over the past two years, but the car is still there. The continuation of the immunity institution in the Ukrainian Parliament continues to destroy Parliament as an institution. What is worth more is the case of the deputy of Novinsky, who has been brought to criminal responsibility, who has only agreed on 35 days after the proper submission. But this vote has shown that only 228 people are willing to record parliamentary immunity. And that, unfortunately, is not only the voices and the existence of a coalition but also the existence of 300 needed voices to remove this shameful norm from the Constitution of Ukraine. We have drafted a bill in the Self-Help faction, which severely limits parliamentary immunity. Bill 5487, which unfortunately this week, we have not yet been able to include in the agenda of the day session. And it doesn't take 300 votes, enough 226 votes. Today, parliamentary immunity is burdened, not primarily by the Constitution, but by a series of laws. Our bill amends the Rules of Procedure, the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the status of the Ukrainian National MP, the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens. The bill shortens the deadline for the conclusion by a professional, regulatory committee. From 21 days to 1 day. During the three plenary days, the Supreme Council is obliged to consider such a submission. Moreover, she can make this decision at an extraordinary plenary meeting. Cancels the special arrangements for the search of the nard, the examination of his personal belongings and luggage, transportation, housing, or service facilities. There are restrictions on the departure of a national deputy abroad if appropriate submission has been received from the Attorney General’s Office or from the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office. Finally, Nardespah is given the right to apply for consent to criminal liability. Yesterday, from this rostrum, Andrey Zhurzyi asked us in particular to remove the MP’s in touch with him. By passing the law, then, let us give him the full legal right to remove his responsibility and to answer, to defend his honor and dignity in court as an ordinary person. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to accept this one in the next plenary week of January.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u86	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u87	start restoring confidence in the Ukrainian Parliament, in the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u88	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Lucenka. You're late, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u89	Dear friends, on November 4th of this rostrum, my request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was announced, in which I informed this important institution that Mr. Dekhtjárenko, Dehtjárenko Sergey Stahanović, claimed to be the head of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to emphasize, on November 4th, my request came out. So far, I have not received any answers that the relevant structures of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been informed of. And I also ask you to consider this statement as an official appeal to the Attorney General's Office to prevent me from being a national deputy to my activities. Who is Dekhtirenko Sergey Stahanovich? It's not easy. It is now being promoted to such a fine position as the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers. Because it is this position, designed by today's Cabinet of Ministers, that should concentrate on anti-corruption functions, which is essentially a lot of opportunities for getting the wrong benefit in all the executive power of Ukraine. That's how he's offered the next biography. From 2010 to 2011, from April to April, this person served as the first deputy director of the Department of Audit and Control at the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine at Yanukovic. In 2011, he also served as Deputy Chief of Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance. Between the 11th and 14th years, he served as Director of the Department of Administration and Personnel of the Ukrainian DMS in Kiev. Friends, I would like to remind you that according to Ukrainian legislation on illustrations, such positions provide for the limitations of this person to hold higher public office. I think this is due to the absence of an answer to my question. I think it's about ignoring the information I'm providing, because it's the kind of footage that someone seems to really need as controllers of all the corruption flows in the entire executive branch of power. I repeat, I appeal to the Attorney General's Office for obstruction of my parliamentary activities. Please investigate this in accordance with the legal order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u90	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Marchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u91	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexander Marchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 90 constituency, Bila Church. Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! First of all, I'm addressing you, Reverend White Church. And I want to say thank you to all of you. I want to thank the Ukrainian entrepreneurs and manufacturers today who, despite the changes in power, are working against it, not under created conditions. I would like to thank you, fellow members of the national MPs who, this year, in the Supreme Council Hall, passed the 2093 Chernobyl Bills, we, together with you, passed a bill protecting vocational and technical education. And I want to thank you for the parliamentary hearings where you and I were concerned about education as a preschool, extra-school education, middle school and in general. First of all, I want to thank our fighters who are on the front today, who are looking at us with you, looking at us and remembering us. Why? Because we're with you in this room, thanks only because they're on the front line, they're holding out every day under fire, they're holding out every day in the cold, in the snow, in the rain, and they're holding out even when there's no good weapons. All of us should thank the fighters. And we should certainly thank the Ukrainians, who are simple from small to large, who make gifts until the last day and today, who cook Santa Claus for the fighters on the front, whether it is a schoolboy or a grandmother. Very well today, the Prime Minister said that he would care for all social security. I would like to see the word not diverged in order for the Prime Minister to be responsible for the construction of Ukrainian roads. And I want him to have the strength to have these roads built by Ukrainian road builders. I want to support him in keeping his words in many other ways. Because recently, I was at the Eight - Year School of Fish in Santa Maria and gave the children scars. And I said, when I was speaking to them, and let's say, kids who consider these cuts, maybe I'll take the MPs to the Supreme Council. And they're all happy, he says, well, not just give it to the deputies, but give it to the ministers. We have this attitude toward power today, we certainly did it and it's embarrassing. And I want to thank the ordinary Ukrainians for the experience they have gained. And I'm sure today that all of our work goes to what we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u92	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u93	Since we are a rich nation, we have a global strategic reserve of black land in Ukraine, we will win, boldly in 2017. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u94	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andrew Illenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u95	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, of course, are approaching New Year's and Christmas holidays, and in these days we have to think first of all about those, for the sake of, in fact, that we can talk about these holidays today. Today, Ukrainian families can enjoy peace and tranquillity in their cities and villages, in fact, for the sake of our defenders. And we know that in the last days, there have been massive battles on the front, on the Ensign of Light. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Armed Forces are losing, we understand that there are extremely difficult times and nights on the collision line, on the frontline of the Moscow-Ukrainian war. And in these days, of course, we want to ask very many questions to the present authorities. And it's probably one of the many issues that I've raised on a number of occasions in this Parliament and beyond, that's a very embarrassing question, namely, what's going on in spite of the war, despite the fighting, is trade with the occupying elements in the temporarily occupied territories of our nation, which is trade with the aggressor country. This is particularly cynical in the form of totally corrupt criminal schemes for the supply of coal from temporarily occupied areas. And literally recently, once again, Deputy Prime Minister Kistion announced in the media that about 9 million tons of coal from occupied areas had been purchased this year. This means that it's on such a huge scale that financing is actually happening for those terrorists who are then shooting, killing our soldiers. We understand what other schemes are going on, for example, when Centrenerego buys through some Panamanian base coal companies from Russia at all. I understand that there is a difficult situation in our energy system. I understand that it is necessary to ensure its functioning. But there has been a war against us for almost three years. And in the meantime, you could get a little tense and find ways to replace these resources, find any other way to provide yourself with energy resources without sponsoring war against your own state. I think it's completely insane, it's a criminal policy that's happening. And it's totally corrupt, because it happens through a variety of basic legal entities, through offshores, and this is where huge corruption money is made. And today's authorities have a percentage of it all, so this has to be stopped. And today we're going to think about our fighters on the front, and anyone who can help them in these difficult moments. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u96	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Tetjan Ostrikov, who has been given the floor by National Deputy Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, I want to talk today about the changes to the Tax Code that have been voted in Parliament on a budget night. Of course, every budget and every law in general, including budget law, is the result of compromise and consideration of the proposals of various political powers that do not always care for people and do not always care for our state. A clear example of the adoption of such a law, which is the result of compromises, is a bill amending the Tax Code (5368) on the so - called increase in investment attractiveness. This is the bill that was submitted by the government that took into account the proposals made by many national MPs, particularly mine, those deputies who fought for years for transparency of VAT compensation, for refusing tax penalties, for electronicizing services to overcome domestic corruption in taxation. On a budget night, however, the bill had some changes. So let's figure this out. And I want to let you know what's good and what I think is the result of some lobbyist initiatives by individual national MPs. I refer to good things, first of all, the introduction of a single VAT return register based on the sole principle of reparation: chronology of the submission of applications. In a combination of cancelling the state fiscal service's conclusion on compensation, this should provide, in fact, transparent VAT compensation, because this tax ruling has always been used as a mechanism for the manual influence of fiscal services, and it is because of it that this tool has violated the chronologicality of VAT compensation. It is finally determined that the tax levy registered in the electronic administration system is sufficient to recognise the tax credit. That would mean that all those tax frauds to the tax collectors, to the supply chain -- they'd all go to summer. All courts on fictitiousness and on tax evasion should go back to the past. The electronic office of the taxpayer, the electronic register of tax advice on the DFS site, the ban on the DFS to break the contract to an electronic digital signature is the amendment of the colleague of Jury, the cancellation of the collection to the Monetary Fund, the transfer of the report from 1 May to 1 October, the turnover increased to 150 million, and the cancellation of VAT benefits from the import of Naftogaz gas, which will allow. remove the monopolization of the market and allow the development of the gas market. Not very good initiatives, low rent on oil production, tax changes on lotteries.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u98	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u99	Three times less revenue from this profitable business; no solution to the issue of the technical co-maintenance of the DFS bases and electronic registers has been introduced by the Tax Police and Financial Investigation Service Act. So there's something to fight for.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u100	Please, 15 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u101	So there's something to fight for in 2017. "Fight! Fight! Fight!"as the classic said. All Ukrainians with New Year's Eve welcome! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u102	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u103	Praise Jesus Christ! Great Ukrainian people! The main goal of our parliament, the government, the President, was to save the country, to re-arm the army with high-precision weapons, the air defence system, to create all cycles of nuclear restoration; to raise the economy and create jobs that would give people jobs, to pay taxes, to fill the budget; to return land, to farmland to give jobs to Ukrainian peasants and to make profits to Ukrainian families and communities; to destroy a number of corrupt schemes, and especially energy schemes, because it was the one who said that money from subsidies went to the oligarchs that was asked for a very simple reason: 200 billion dollars, which would be indexed for this year, which Naftogaz Ukraine, had claimed to be the income of the population, compared to 5 times the amount of subsidies -- 40 billion -- less than the amount of the amount of government's. The direction of agriculture must be complex — from raw sales of grain to the development of livestock, gardening, and especially processing. And that's what basic credits are for small and medium-sized farming. In addition, energy conservation is considered our main focus. Three times as much money as last year. The development of rail transport, the construction of roads, the development of the IT sector and the space sector, and the development of rockets, which will in the future provide basic incomes for the development of our economy. In addition, our development is hampered by widespread corruption. Corruption is not as political as it is political, for it is political corruption that destabilizes the situation when a politician uses his office to lie and mislead the people. For how can such an officer of the level of the Supreme Council appeal to the unconvincing establishment of a crime, such as that of Novinsky or, for example, Oneshchenka. Crime must be proved by law enforcement authorities in court, and then a deputy can accuse someone. As far as Novinski's concerned. When the Attorney General raises the issue of the removal of the inviolability, he seeks to do so, but the deputies of a particular faction seem to protest the fight against corruption and also demand the removal of the inviolability from Oneshchenk, but. From Novinsky, but I don't understand how these deputies, who have the moral right to collect signatures against the resignation of the Attorney General. It's kind of the goal of both the Attorney General's Office and that faction, but maybe that's the purpose of the demonstration, and in fact maybe it's different. So on the eve of this New Year, I want to go to all of the Ukrainian people and wish my mind to find the truth and separate it from the lie, to find the tolerance to endure these difficult times and the power to defeat our enemies and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u104	15 seconds. Please End, 15 / 1
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u105	And on this early Christmas night, when you sit at the table, remember our defending soldiers. Pray for them! Pray for Ukraine! Pray for the whole nation! And may God protect our earth. God and Ukraine are with us! Praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u106	Thank you. I invite the People's Deputy Musia, who has been given the word of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u107	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished voters. Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalski, Red City, National Control political party. I would like to draw your attention to the chronic issue of the illegality of power in the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. You know, you're surprised when it comes to the adoption of the Prime Minister's budget and it says that, finally, we're building a constitutional state, we're following the laws, and it was his direct duty to submit to Parliament's approval as the parliamentary-presidency republic, which is Ukraine, a candidate for the Ukrainian Health Minister. Today, we have two responsibilities. The current responsibilities, of course, are not legally responsible for a branch, the most sensitive branch, which is medicine to protect the health of Ukrainians. Therefore, I would like to address the President of Ukraine firstly, I think he may be handed over, and perhaps he is watching the rest of the people's deputies here today, who are in the Hall, which is the Constitution and under the Constitution, the duty of the President is to be a guarantor of this Constitution. This is how the Constitution guarantees us the Presidential-Parliamentary Republic. Mr. President, please influence the Prime Minister with his mandate to finally have the parliamentary majority here vote in favour of the worthy nomination of the Minister of Health, whatever it may be, and take responsibility for the state of health in our country. I would also like to point out to the President that he is likely to have been signed or to be subjected to a law that destroys the constitutional foundations of our state, 5131, where, according to the findings of the Supreme Council's legal administration, according to which the 11 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine have been violated by this law, think only, one law violated 11 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, 2 decisions of the 2005 and 2010 Constitutional Court have been violated. Instead, the greed of power and the greed of preferences in the state budget has led to a blurring of the eyes of national MPs who are voting for totally illegal, anticonstitutional decisions. And finally, I would like to welcome the Ukrainian miners, my constituents, from Western Ukraine, first of all, with the achievements that the Ukrainian Parliament made yesterday, and yet, under the tree, it gave them this salary that they deserve with their work a little bit of a heavy one. And, Mr. President, sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u108	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u109	immediately this law, because only then will they be able to get the money they have earned. Glory to Ukraine! All with Christmas to come and with New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u110	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u111	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear fellow Ukrainians, I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome everyone with the coming and coming New Year, Christ’s Christmas. And we all wish that 2017 would bring us only peace, mutual understanding, prosperity in every Ukrainian family. Today, in summary, we mentioned further steps and decisions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Among them, of course, I agree with my colleagues, there was a question of establishing a moratorium on the export of roundwood outside our country. I have also voted in favour of this law and will support the moratorium to continue. But I want to ask all of us: Has the situation in the Ukrainian forests changed dramatically? Have we been able to stop what is going on? Illegal cuts, criminal groups working together today, unfortunately, with forest workers, the inaction of law enforcement agencies, or their inability to influence the situation. Yesterday, I brought materials to our Corestinsk City Department of Internal Affairs to see that perhaps 15th or 16th criminal cases were committed on the basis of illegal logging. And today, I would also like to consider my statement as a question to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk so that the National Police can step up their work on these criminal cases. In general, I would like to help the following year 2017 to finally adopt a state strategy of everything related to logging. She's on time. All the work has been done. And I think we can do it together. And to the end. Dear colleagues! I am also not comfortable finishing a week on Friday with this number of deputies. Let's do what we've been preparing for for a long time. I am referring to amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, which will improve the situation of attendance at sessions, with the responsibility of deputies for not being in the workplace today. There are already works, and international experts have been working. Our Committee on Rules and Organizations of Work of the Supreme Council has also prepared high - quality materials. Colleagues are familiar with them. And I think next year, at the beginning of our work, we have to accept these changes. I urge us all to do so. Again, I welcome the New Year’s coming and the Christmas Christ.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u112	Thank you. There is no National Deputy Gulyev. I didn't wait. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Silantiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u113	Denis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! For many years, I have defended, fought, defended the country's highest sports arenas in Europe and the world. Today I am a member of the Radical faction of the Radical Party, fighting in Parliament for the health of the growing generation, for the health of the nation. In Parliament, as a newly elected MP, he had made his own plans, his ideas, proposals, and he had begun to address the problems that the Government had created for his own people in Ukraine in the direction of the health of the continuing technologies. As a result of the taxation of sanatorium and health care facilities, taxes on land, real estate, sports complexes have ceased to finance children's schools. Well, you know, however difficult and difficult it is to fight, we have achievements. There are achievements during this year and very large. I'd even compare them to winning the Olympics. One is the holding of parliamentary hearings, which have been held to make you understand how important this is, for the first time in 18 years. That is to say, it shows the importance of the nation's health, the health of the nation, in terms of its leadership. For the first time in 18 years, recommendations were made for local authorities to develop physical culture and sports in cities, areas, villages and villages. As a Parliamentary, I will monitor how these recommendations of parliamentary hearings will be implemented. Our second achievement. We are, through a change, the Radical Party, personally leader of Oleg Valerievich Ljasko's party, thanks to the changes made to the Tax Code in order to return to the legal level of land and real estate benefits for sanatorium and health care institutions for sports complexes. Second moment. We have made sure that 10 per cent of the regional development fund is allocated to the construction of sport infrastructure. It's about 300 million bracelets. It doesn't solve the problem. But this is already a good start for maintaining the infrastructure that can be recalculated today. There's still a lot of problems. And I am sure that, with the same work, we will face both the prospects and the challenges we face. One is the development of sport, the development of medicine and the culture of space. We know how important it is today to support people living in villages, villages, small towns. And today there is a bill registered and initiated by the Radical Party faction to create conditions for the development of such.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u114	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u115	You know, I think everyone will agree with me that a healthy and educated nation is the success of a healthy and successful country. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will continue to uphold all social guarantees for Ukraine, for Ukrainians next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u116	Thank you. And the last performance today is the national deputy of Wesselova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u117	Since the beginning of the Russian Federation's armed aggression, a new category of citizens has emerged in Ukraine -- internally displaced persons. Early in 2014, citizens moved out of the war zone with confidence that the situation would be resolved in a maximum of three months, and that is what the host communities expected. But for two and a half years now, problems that have been considered temporary have not yet been solved. First of all, this is because the state does not define itself in any way with regard to internally displaced persons and citizens living in uncontrollable territories. Who they are: hostages, victims of occupation, traitors, enemies. Regrettably, government authorities prefer economic interests, and the state does not know how to close many of the number holes in the budget. And instead of implementing pension reform, Kabin and the law enforcement agencies are doing their best to combat displaced persons in order to reduce the cost of not paying pensions and social benefits. Because of a strong desire to save lives, there is a deliberate discrimination against all without the discord of internally displaced persons. The problem could be solved by a number of measures taken by the Ukrainian government. First of all, it's the introduction of separate accounts for internally displaced persons who have actually left uncontrollable territories and individual citizens living in an uncontrollable and occupied territory. The need for these categories must be met with the implementation of various national programs. The second step is to prioritise the government's solution to the housing problems of internally displaced persons. The budget currently does not provide any program for the construction of state-owned housing or for the credit of housing for displaced persons. Many communities are willing to provide land, create the necessary conditions to settle whole neighborhoods in their populated areas, for they see this as an opportunity for themselves. Many communities make up budgetary institutions and enterprises at the expense of internally displaced persons with qualified personnel. There's no investment here. At a time when international donors are willing to channel substantial funds to restore infrastructure that is already largely a part of either recovery or is in a combat zone, only professional ministries can convince donors to change priorities. Ukraine should be determined by its attitude toward internally displaced persons and Ukrainian citizens living in uncontrollable territories. And only in this case will Ukraine remain the only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-23-m0.u118	Thank you. We've completed our consideration of the various issues. I want to remind the people's deputies and our audiences that the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will be held on January 17th at 10 a.m. The morning session is closed.
