ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u1	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration. My colleagues, I would like to inform you once again that we have a security and defence issue in the agenda, and in particular drafts of the Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on exemption from customs duties for defence purposes. I find it unacceptable that before lunch we were unable to find votes for the first of those laws, from the block of those laws. And so I am now very convincingly asking all the deputies that the next three laws that are in this bloc could quickly consider and move on to issues related to the approval of the state budget. Colleagues, today on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we need to be mobilized, just like boys on the front are mobilized, and we need to show an example of quality and systemic work. I'm asking everyone to take a seat, get ready for registration. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall, and I ask the factions to invite deputies to the Chamber. So, are you ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please. [[16:06:26]] 352 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. My colleagues, we have, once again, there are now three bills that have the general agreement of all factions that don't even need much discussion, because there is general support. Then there will be bills necessary for the adoption of the budget. I'd like all the deputies to come into the hall so that we can get a vote on the reduced procedure. Please. Colleagues, while the deputies enter the hall, I will read out an announcement that has come to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of the Baltic-Black Sea Initiative in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilozur Oksana Volodymyrna, was elected head of this association. Let's welcome Mrs. Oksana. And let's move on to the agenda. Colleagues, please come into the hall. The next issue in the agenda is the draft Act amending paragraph 4-1 of chapter XXI of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the supply to the customs territory of Ukraine of materials (tissues) for the manufacture of special means of individual protection. Colleagues, at the request of the author and the committee, I will now make a proposal for a reduced procedure. And I would also like to inform a colleague of the deputies who are at the head of the government. If we go into the full procedure, we won't be able to go into budget issues, and so I ask all the national MPs to take up jobs and get ready to vote. Let me remind you that these issues are supported by all factions, and it is important that we be able to deal with them quickly and effectively. So I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 5128, and I'm considering a reduced procedure. Please support and vote, please. [[16:10:13]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, once again, what's the offer? I have to vote. My colleagues tell me that three committees are still going on, I know, regular, tax, budgetary. And that's why I'm going to re-proposal for a reduced procedure. If we don't have the required number of votes, we'll move on to the full procedure. I'm asking everyone to focus, I'm explaining a very simple logic. In those 40 minutes, we can either adopt three drafts of security-defense, or we can consider one in full procedure. And I'm asking all the national MPs to support the review of the reduced procedure, and we're going to have a chance to adopt three defense bills. If that's not the case, we'll go over the full procedure, colleagues. So please concentrate, take jobs. And once again, I propose a review of the draft Act amending paragraph 4-1 of chapter XXI of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the supply to the customs territory of Ukraine of materials (tissues) for the manufacture of special means of individual protection under reduced procedures. Bill number 5128. It is simple, and we can fully consider it by means of a simplified procedure. I ask you to support this initiative, and I ask you to vote. 5128 under reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please, colleagues, please back up. [[16:14:08]] For 124 There is no political will in the hall. Let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Denisenko Vadim Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! This law is a continuation of that law, which unfortunately we failed at our previous meeting. But this is a change to the Customs Code, and I understand that there are fewer questions before the Customs Code than before the changes to the Tax Code. I would like to remind you in a few words that this bill provides for a tax-added value equivalent, in 2004, a standard was introduced in the Customs Code, according to which import duty benefits have been fixed for the period of the anti-terrorist operation when imported into Ukraine for special protection of individual helmets, such as domes. The release was foreseen for the purpose of costing ammunition purchased by the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations at the expense of state funds. At the same time, a lack of clarity led to the fact that the materials from which such helmets are made, namely paraaramide tissue, or, more simply, Kevlar, not subject to release. That is, as a result of imperfect legislation, the production of colossal helmets in Ukraine, which meets all military standards and basic objectives of the Ukrainian military doctrine, is artificially complicated because it increases the cost of finished production. The purpose of the bill is to exempt the import tax on imports into Ukraine of Kevlar, to create competitive conditions for Ukrainian producers and to reduce the costs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and military formations. other military formations for the purchase of high-quality dome helmets. I would like to point out that the need to make the proposed changes has been directly supported by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The bill does not contain any corruptive factors, nor will it have a negative impact on the conditions of competition in the internal market. Thus, the adoption of the bill is an important step in increasing the level of defence of the Ukrainian State and will have a positive effect on the development of high-quality industrial defence products in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u3	Thank you. Please, a question to the reporter. Please, three minutes, a question to the reporter. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u4	Please pass the word to the national deputy Kudlainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u5	The Peter Prashenko faction clearly supports the bill. It is completely related to the previous bill number 5127, which unfortunately we did not accept. In this. So I'm asking you to support all your colleagues. Why? Because the issue of tax exemption for this type of material is extremely important today. However, this applies to the manufacture of watchtower helmets and vests. Please support the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u6	Please, the question is given to Andrew Lozov. Andrey Lozov is handing Oleg over to Lashkov. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the question right now. Colleagues, I'll explain later. Long. full-time procedure. We're going to have statements from all the factions, from the deputies. And all those who wish to speak will be able to speak. Now we just have a question. And as long as you're asking questions, the next question is Alexander Kugel, "Fatherland." Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u7	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Wadim, do you support the proposal made by our party, Sergey Sobolev, to write in the Final Position of your bill a commission to the Ministry of Finance that the price of purchasing government products from this product cannot be higher than it should be lower when we withdraw our taxes with you? So to avoid that, we're going to take off the VAT and customs budget now, and the price is going to stay the same. So that we can understand the benefits for the country and for the money we're sending to the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u8	Thank you for asking. The very idea is very right. Only I think we need to write this right now. write down this rule, and so do I. In End Positions, yes, yes. And so am I. But it needs to be duly written. Because in the way that it's now sounding under the stenogram, I don't think you can put it. Now, I think we can talk to you separately. The Ministry of Finance has foreseen it. Right, I'm saying we just need to write this phrase correctly under the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u9	Thank you. Desirable dates for the interview are exhausted. Vadim Igorovich, thank you for your report. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee. She's missing in the hall. That's why we go from factions to factions. I'm asking you to record the factions. Please record -- statements from factions. The Kugel of Alexander Volodymyr. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u10	I want to say that the Fatherland faction fully supports this bill. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u11	Wait a minute, you just moved the card. I'm asking you to turn on Alexandra Kugel again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u12	First of all, thank you, Mr. Head, for passing this bill after recess. We consider this to be very important, and we need to vote on it in general, both under the Tax Code and under the Customs Code. We think it's important. And I would like to stress in support of what Mrs. Jujanina said, that this is a raw material that does not, in this case, place producers and helmets in unequal conditions and the necessary armor. And that's why we're going to be supporting this bill, and now we're going to do just a little errand with the drafter. That if the State gives tax and customs benefits, we should get at least an even price or a discount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u13	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, indeed, will today strive to adopt a number of laws related to the budget. Well, I think, and I think a lot of my colleagues are dividing this opinion, that this budget that they've put the local authorities on their knees. Yes, local authorities also rely on the financing of energy - related activities for utilities, medical, educational, and technical personnel. There is also a requirement for local authorities to pay for the transfer of the debt, even though we passed the law a year ago to do so at the expense of the government. The financing of trade and technology, and a lot of other things. For local authorities, however, no levers are given to increase funding. So I think today we need to postpone the consideration of these laws relating to the tax box, this budget, and work on the budget. I don't think we should vote for this today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u15	From the People's Front, Lapin Igor Alexanderovich. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u16	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to call their friends, acquaintances, relatives who are supposed to work in Parliament, but unfortunately they are going somewhere because this bill is quite important. You know, today is the Ukrainian Armed Forces Day, and these changes that are being proposed by the drafters of the bill are directly relevant to us. I remember very well how the self-defense guys bought materials abroad and glued Kevlar helmets on the Wall for us, for the fighters, and sent them to the front. And we know what kind of peripetia they've been dealing with to make some kind of production work. So I'm asking you very much to put on the legal rails the production of what it takes for the war, in this case, and everything for the front. I think we should, again, urge our colleagues to enter the hall and vote on this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u17	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Koseljeva gives the floor to Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable colleagues and deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention to the situation in the budgetary process. This week, the draft budget bill and its adoption are scheduled for second reading. The Radical Party faction insists and requires the government to include several key positions in the country’s main financial document next year. First, to save a special tax regime for farmers. Instead of selling the land, the authorities must leave, not rob the peasants, and leave the money they make to these peasants. There are no programs for lending, no programs for public support in the animal, plant, and agricultural sectors, and the authorities are still trying to take away what farmers and farmers themselves will earn. Therefore, the Radical Party requires that special taxes be saved for farmers so that our farmers, single farmers, small farms, family farms can earn, feed their families and sell their products. The Radical Party has achieved and we thank all the parliaments that have supported our Law to Continue the Moratorium on the Sale of Agricultural Land! But that's not enough. We need to take state support programs now. Next. Government support programs for displaced persons. Two million Ukrainians from Donbaszczina, Luhansk, and Donetsk lost their homes. My greatest dream is for people to come home and return home. And before this dream is realized and we make it happen as soon as possible, the state must support the displaced! That is why we demand that the government make provision for the cost of housing for displaced persons. By the new year, Mayor Vadim Boychenk and I are planning to open a reconstructed residence for the movers in Mariupol. Such programs, the construction of new housing for displaced persons, should be made at the expense of the state budget, not just at the expense of local budgets! The third requirement of the Radical Party is the restoration of state funding for vocational and technical education institutions. After depriving the state funding of PTU, the government takes out rural children, children from low-income families, and orphans rob them of employment skills, knowledge, and family feeding for the future! That is why we demand that public funding programs be restored! And the last. We demand that the government give the pensioners free medicine and index their pensions! Not robbing pensioners and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u19	From Petar Dustenka's Block, Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u20	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Now I'm going to be doing something in an unusual role for me, because I'm not going to object to the adoption of this law. Because this law can be passed. Because that's the difference between the previous law and that law. First. It applies to all subjects, and there is no selective approach. Second, it only applies to import duties. Import duties are only applied to imported goods. Yes, there is a problem here, including for the budget. But when we talk about VAT, that tax is taxed on both imports and the national product. The law that provides for the release of imports discriminates against the national manufacturer. And it doesn't matter whether this product is produced or not produced. Because if it's not even produced, it will never be produced in Ukraine, because the tax regime creates one that is more convenient to invest in neighbouring Poland, Hungary, Germany, and import without VAT the right product, because in Ukraine it is impossible to sell this product without VAT. Therefore, my fellow Members, I support the vote in favour of this law. This law can be voted on, it enables the provision of the necessary resources for our economy and does not create an advantage for the importing producer compared to the national producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Now there's a block of speeches from the national MPs. Who wants to speak, only I ask very concisely, very concisely, to record the performances by the national MPs. Please. Please, Hope Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u22	I wanted to pass on the word of Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the vote under this law, because we really don't have the production of this highly deficient product, which is used very narrowly for the defence industry. So I understand that there may be warnings in certain political forces and in certain, let's say, conservative targeting of MPs who are afraid that there might be some abuse, a lack of payment to the customs budget and so on. So please support this bill and support our defense industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u24	Thank you. My colleagues, I want to inform you that our committees are over, we can work faster, the deputies are already in the hall. I ask those who have signed up to express their position as precisely as possible. Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovitch, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u25	John Krulk has a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u26	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill. It's perfectly logical that we're going to be able to exempt from taxation through the import of pararamid tissue and thus allow us to do everything we can to protect those fighters who are standing in eastern Ukraine and protecting Ukraine's territorial integrity and independence. And I'd like to ask all the colleagues in this room from the Fatherland faction to really, all the factions without exception support this technical bill that actually relates to the lives and health of our military personnel, the defenders of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u27	Thank you. The Kugel of Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u28	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. It's very important when we come back and talk after two and a half years of military action in Ukraine about the need to provide our military. Unfortunately, these decisions had to be made two more years ago, as we took that Supreme Council with you in armor. But I would also like to draw attention to both the Head of the Supreme Council and the Committee Secretariat, that we have submitted two drafts by a team of MPs in the year 01.07.2015, that are 2206 and 2207, which provide for changes as well, but for medical supplies for the army, which also need to be produced in Ukraine, but raw materials only from abroad. And so I very much ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give Mrs. Southanini an urgent task in the same manner to consider Bills 2206 and 2207, which provide today's opportunity to give first aid, painkillers and other medicines they need. In general, we support and consider the bill necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u29	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u30	Sobolje, Fatherland. I fully support my colleagues at the Fatherland faction. We voted in favour of the previous bill, which unfortunately did not vote. We think that this bill, this is exactly the specific situation that we're going to be able to make with this decision to lose our product, is, first of all, the product of a direct purpose to protect our fighters. But in addition, it will allow much faster access to new technologies that allow both vests and helmets to be made from completely different materials. But this question allows us to consider another key point. This law, like the previous one, is an example of how clearly established codes will be used to import this product. Which, unfortunately, cannot be said of the following two bills, where codification is blurred, where, in the form of imports of so-called military supplies, a dual assignment can actually be made, which may not be used at all for military purposes. And that's why this bill is an example of how to be clear about codifying standards, so that you can't actually avoid paying taxes on the budget to the specific things that will be imported. That's why our faction supports this bill, will vote for it. And I think it's an opportunity to once again raise the question that equipment is going to take place at the highest level, because unfortunately, our enemy is the Russian Federation, its superior leadership -- and those fighters who use bullets are a completely different class. And if we don't have the right protection, the armored vests, the helmet, it's not actually going to save us from those bullets that are the absolute bullets of a new generation. That's why this bill needs to be passed very quickly, signed by the President and put into effect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to speak as briefly as possible so that we can consider other drafts of the same block. I'm asking you to understand and to speak as concisely as possible. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Jurik Taras Zinovyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u32	Please tell Barney Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u33	Once again, welcome to the celebration of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, all the soldiers, the officers, and those who are bound by their work to increase our resilience and our shield. I want to contact the deputies, including those who are not currently in the sitting room. This bill, which guarantees the proper military security of our military, must be a priority, regardless of our party or political affiliation. Because thanks to our military, we are here in the Supreme Council, in Kiev, away from military action. And it is thanks to the military that we receive our wages, and it is thanks to them that we now have a peaceful life and work here. Therefore, I ask and call upon all MPs, regardless of political and party affiliation, to unite and vote on all the bills that guarantee adequate military security and protection for our military. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement by Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, and moving on to the vote. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take up jobs, and I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u35	Guys, we've been looking at a lot of drafts to protect our frontal brothers today. And here's what I've been paying attention to. Look, over the course of the day, none of these bills gave any support, no explanation, no comment. This is a testimony of only one. People, it's a Separatian gang, they're national traitors and enemies of the people. While our boys are bleeding and running out on the front door, this asshole right here, well, looking forward and squirming in the heat, you know, just ignores our boys. Guys, they all need to be kicked out of here with a dirty broom! They must be punished, deprived of their mandates. They are traitors, traitors national! The traitors of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u36	Colleagues, please, the discussion is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take up jobs, move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I am very insistently asking everyone to take up their jobs. The issue of security and defence, which is being consolidated by the Chamber, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, next to the government's bed, I'm asking very much for jobs. I'm calling again, colleagues, Mr. Stepan Kube! First Deputy Prime Minister of Stepan Cuba! I'm asking you, I don't see who's on my back, I'm asking you to take jobs, get ready to vote, colleagues. So I'm voting on a draft Act amending paragraph 4-1 of chapter XXI of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the supply of materials and fabrics to Ukraine's customs territory to produce special means of individual protection (number 5128) at the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general, colleagues. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, and I'm asking you to vote. Colleagues, I won't be ashamed to call you names. Please, Minister Sieenko, Mrs. Oksana Prodan, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Mr. Minister of Science! Alexander Sianco! Oksana Sold! We go to the vote, and I, my colleagues, put to a vote 5128 in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Heroshenko Anton! Anton Gerashchenko! So 5128 as a basis and as a whole, please vote. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[16:41:38]] For 248 The law is passed. Colleagues, I'll see you now. We have the following two bills of actual identical meaning. I'm going to announce them, I'm going to ask for a simplified procedure and a minimum discussion, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know, but I have to vote and put it in the Rules. One thing I'm asking you to discuss is that these are short lines. Let's quickly adopt these bills, colleagues. So the next draft of the Amendment Act to Article 282 of the Customs Code of Ukraine on exemption from taxation by customs of defence purposes, 4592 and 4592-d. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? [[16:42:44]] For-198 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Defence of Pavlovský Igor Valentinović. Mr. Igor, I ask you to report this bill very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u37	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill was drafted for the implementation of Presidential Decree 744 of 2014 and the decision of the Prime Minister of Ukraine from 31.12.2014. 36122 with the aim of standardizing the exemption from customs taxation of additional types of defence-related products to ensure the urgent need of ATO forces. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code, para. 20, part one, article 282, in particular, to supplement it with additional types of defence-related products, namely radio-electronic combat, radio-repressive devices, trinkking devices, radio-directional listening devices, ultra-shortwave shortwave shortwave ranges of military assignment, reconnaissance signal equipment, which are extended by customs exemptions when such goods are delivered to public defence purchasers. At the same time, it has been established that the exemption does not extend to goods originating in countries designated by the occupying State under the Act or determined by the aggressor State concerning Ukraine under the legislation, imported from the territory of the occupying State and/or occupied territory of Ukraine as defined by law. During the drafting of the Law on Tax and Customs Policy Committee, Ukrainian national deputies, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the State concert "Ukrobanprom" completed a list of types of defence-related products: pyrotechnic products, tyres, rubber covers for military equipment used for defence purposes, digital radar equipment, fixed satellite communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u38	Mr. Deputy Minister, please finish for another 30 seconds, and I, as I asked, are very brief. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u39	It's a voice-to-voice device. Thus, an alternative edition of the law with registration number 4592-d, with which the Ministry of Defence agrees, has been prepared by the committee. The report was completed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u40	Thank you. The report, the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, by Eugene Nina Petrovna, is already in the hall? Yes. Colleagues, please tell me, are you willing to discuss the bill? They're desirable, aren't they? Okay. Mr. Deputy Minister, you may take your place. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. And I'm asking very, very concisely. Please hold the recording. Peter Prashenko's Block, Jurik Taras Zinovyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u42	Respectable. From the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u43	From the rostrum. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u44	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, well, first of all, I have some very good news for you. Today, in our native South Germany, thanks to the personal intervention of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I thank him very much for this, thanks to the support of the Southern Development Office, the repayment of the debt from salary payments began. Last night, 50 million dollars were sent to the South German account. This is our common victory, and we continue, not by word, but by deed to save our defence-industrial complex, to lift it from the ruins. Sadly, though, respected colleagues, the country’s defence complex, not always able to meet all the urgent needs of the Ukrainian army in modern arms and defence supplies. For objective reasons, therefore, we must import it. If I am not ready for production, its ingredients are not yet produced by Ukrainian companies. But I'm sure we'll have a full cycle of this production. This bill, the government bill, and it was further elaborated on the "d" committee, and it is for it to be voted on, that it is proposed to be exempt from taxation when imported into Ukraine for defence purposes, such as radio-electronic combat equipment, tranking devices, devices for listening to targeted action, so that our military will listen to what terrorists are talking about, and what other dangers they are preparing for us. The bill proposes to provide benefits in the import of modern military radio stations. All of this will provide our military with additional mobility and coordination. Dear colleagues, it's a bill marked "d."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u45	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u46	The "d" bill itself is recommended for approval. It's worked by all the members of the committee. All product codes according to the UTZED classification are verified, balanced. And we need to vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u47	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u48	This will depend on how effective our Ukrainian army will be. The entire faction of Peter Prashenko insists on voting unanimously. That's the day we're going to make our troops more effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u49	Thank you. My colleagues, I just want to remind you that we have budgetary issues. The more concise our speeches will be, the more likely we will be to adopt the following two protective laws. I beg you very much: fast and concise. From Fatherland, the word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Savchenko Nada Viktorovni. Please, Mrs. Hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u50	On one of the committees, there were representatives of the Ucroborprom, the National Security and Defence Committee, and there were a lot of questions about corruption in this organization. This was said to Pashinsky at the time, so that Ucroborprom is a chicken that carries golden eggs. That's just the question of who she's carrying the golden eggs to. So it's about the kits. Yes, of course, not all of us can produce. Of course, you would have to buy something to start our industry. On the other hand, the arms export that we can give to other countries must match the certification, otherwise if we do what Ucroborprom does now, which doesn't reach our front, they won't buy it. But if the previous law that we just voted on, the tissues, the Kevlar thread, there were precise customs codes that would be purchased, I could believe it. What this law might put in "Ucrobronprom" is left for me to guess. I think that in the first reading we can accept it, but by the next time we have to have all the customs codes that are going to enter the product so that we can't move it. I understand that there's something new that we can talk about and say that, for example, those listening antennas, they're needed because the military can't do as well as civilians can. But if there's a set, I don't know, on cell phones, on any Mercedes or anything else, it's really going to be a chicken that carries golden eggs. Therefore, without a complete list of customs codes, this law cannot be voted on. Only in the first reading at the moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u51	Thank you. Final address, Misik Vladimir Yuriovich. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. And Vladimir Yuriovich, turn on the microphone, please. You have to push the card to turn on the microphone. Colleagues, no, they're making a speech. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 282 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on exemption from taxation by customs of defence purposes at the suggestion of a committee. 4592-d, based, colleagues, based. Please. On the basis of, yes, on the basis of. Please vote, please support. Based on the base. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[16:52:58]] For 225 I see, I see. Colleagues, I bet, please return to consideration 4592. And I would like to vote in favour of the return to debate 4592. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please go to work. [[16:53:32]] For 245 We're back. Now I'm putting the 4592-d committee proposal back on the ground, colleagues. Based on the base. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:53:57]] For 247 Decision taken. Colleagues, and from that block, the last bill. This is a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Section 2, Transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemptions for Added Costs of Defence Assignment (4915). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:54:38]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Defence of Pavlovski Igor Valentinovich. Mr. Deputy Minister, please. Once again, I would like to ask you very briefly to report on the main substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u52	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The relevant bill amending Chapter XX, Subsection 2, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Exemption by Added Cost of Defence Assignment, practically intersects with the previous bill, contains the same composition, provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code, complementing it with additional types of defence-related products. In particular, radio, radio, radio, ultra - short - wave and short -wave radio stations that extend tax exemptions to added value. During the drafting of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee bill, I will not repeat the list, the same as the changes to the Customs Code. So the committee prepared an alternative draft of the 4915-d bill, which the Mini-Defense agrees with. I suggest you support him. The report was completed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u53	Thank you, colleagues. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Fatherland, Savchenko Nadia Victorian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u54	I'm handing over Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u55	She's handing over Alexandra Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, once again, we call your attention to the fact that the law that we passed before that colleague of ours was written professionally, the codes were fully indicated. What we're paying attention to is because in these bills there's an emphasis on the speech that Victor Pinzenik made. If we have tires in the White Church and we want to transport tires now without customs and taxes, we put our manufacturer in unequal conditions. Please make a second reading of all the codes, compare the taxes of the Ukrainian manufacturer and if you import a foreign product. And third. We've analyzed the groups that you're exempting from tax by way of a bribe. And there's all kinds of antennas, and there's video recorders, and there's TVs, and anything. Work because this bill will be the first reason for a corruption assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u57	Thank you. Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u58	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am always a supporter of the protection of the insider. But this is the case, in my opinion, when we need to support this bill and cancel the VAT on these positions that are necessary for the front today. Let me explain why. We have a very difficult situation on the front because we agreed last year and recorded the special confiscation as a source of funding for the state defense order. Bottom line: the army is underfunded today, the defence companies are underfunded, we see how many problems there are in the room to vote on the laws of special confiscation. And we need all the means to release that limited resource that the Ministry of Defense currently has so that they can buy as much equipment as possible and send it to the front. Even this 20 percent that we're going to cancel there from VAT, it's going to be more of a purchase of equipment. But of course this should be just what is not produced in Ukraine, and it should only be for a period of our special period. So, colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, because, unfortunately, today is the only way out. Although I agree with the warnings of colleagues that we need to negotiate with our international partners on offset schemes where. When we buy one. high - tech equipment, which was definitely located in Ukraine. We have experts, we have manufacturing capacities, we have technology, we lack international partners today with their highest technology. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u59	Please, Romanovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u60	Please pass the microphone to Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u61	If anyone is unaware in this room of the fact that high-tech weapons, high-tech equipment, are keeping our soldiers' lives ahead of schedule, I'm sad for these people. But I want to say one thing that's the most important thing for our room today. These tools provide lifesaving means of improving the quality of military management. These devices allow, again, to return home from the war alive and well to our warriors. So I ask the entire room to support the adoption of this law, to uphold the law of the Ministry of Defence and to vote unequivocally in favour of this law, we need it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u62	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, in one minute, there will be a decision to be made, I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. I give the committee's head the word "Juganini's Nina Petrovney." Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that the bills submitted did not specify the codes of goods that we are exempting from import duties and VAT, the bills that have been drafted, the honourable colleagues, I am paying attention to the specific codes that are to be released from import duties and VAT. With regard to tyres, code 4011 is only for tyres and rubber covers, for military equipment used for defensive purposes. Such tyres are not produced at the Biocerkow Rubber Plant, and tires for military equipment are not produced there. So all the fuses and the next item in the amended law remove all the unequal possibilities for a domestic producer. Please read the bill that the committee has worked on. So, 4915-d (worked) is related to Bill 4592, and the references go to exactly the product codes that I just told you about, they're clearly written. Please support the vote in the first reading of this bill 4915 as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u64	So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter XX, Subsection 2, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation on Added Costs of Defence Assignment. According to the committee's proposals, I'm putting a proposal of 4915-d as a basis, colleagues. On the basis of all that may be corrected, we will be able to make a second reading. Please take your jobs, please support me, please vote 491-5d on the basis, colleagues. Please vote. Please support me, please vote. [[17:03:35]] For 235 Decision taken. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. And, colleagues, we've completed the security and customs policy cluster, which were actually also security-related issues. And we can move on to issues related to the approval of the state budget. So the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the government came to us. We welcome the government and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Applause]] But before I went to these questions, I was asked to take a break from the two factions, the Radical Party, and the Self-Help faction, which they are willing to replace in the tribune. And I give the floor to self-help leader Oleg Berezuk, and then we move on to budget issues. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u65	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable Members, over an hour ago, the Regulatory Committee, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, made a decision on the decision to remove the immunity, six against the deprivation, and three for the removal. I think that's the spirit of the attorney general's mistrust in this room. But it is this, the honourable chairman, that allows this decision to be made in this room in order to determine how he will explain to the people of Ukraine his desire to remove the inviolability of each and every one of us. So in order to continue working in the Supreme Council, in the Hall, we suggest, Mr. Head, that we immediately make this decision in the Hall, discuss it, and let the Hall make a decision before the people of Ukraine. Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister, knowing your support for local self-government, I would like to inform you that I personally participated in the tax committee meeting. And I want to tell you that this vote, which will take place in favour of the Act on Excise, will begin to break down the policies of decentralization and fiscal decentralization in the country. Villages, cities, and towns will be deprived of what we gave them in this hall on December 29, 2014. So please take a personal look at this process and stop. Conscious of this, the committee's vote was cast by the oligarchic groups, which, unfortunately, in this Parliament, with the support of the committee's head. So we're making a decision on the elimination of intactities and we're working on a budget that will preserve decentralization as the basis for the democratic development of that state. Otherwise, manual money management will lead to loyal advice in villages, cities, and this preparation for counterfeits, for honest elections in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the budget cluster. I am considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, 5130 and 5131. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support, please vote, consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support. [[17:07:32]] For-164 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Social Policy, Rev. Andrija Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u67	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (registration number 5130), which was developed by the government in collaboration with the Committee of Social Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What changes and what the new bill contains. First, through working together with the Committee of the Supreme Council, this bill does not contain any, I would stress, any additional norm that would provide for restrictions on social pay and programmes compared to decisions adopted by the Supreme Council in 2014 and 2015. It was the tough position of the committee, which was completely reflected in the bill. Moreover, the bill takes into account the need for a step-by-step recovery of suspended payments and an increase in the level of state social guarantees. Second, this bill creates the conditions for raising the minimum wage of half as of 1 January 2017 – up to 3,000 200 dollars. In this regard, the bill provides for the following changes: the introduction of European approaches to determining the minimum wage. Second, the commitment of high - wage workers to the minimum wage. It predicts that the minimum wage will not be applied as a calculated amount for the determination of fines, the provision of administrative services, the court’s tax collection, and so on. So all the artificial restrictions on the rise of the level are removed. Another important task. Involvement in social insurance is increasing in the number of employed people and increasing the insurance principles of the system of compulsory social insurance. It is proposed that the mandate be given.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u68	How long? Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u69	Authorize the exercise of control in the field of employment to perform councils of regional importance, united territorial communities. The bill then recalculates the insurance payments of the victims of production and provides for the completion of the social insurance fund reform. In addition, the most vulnerable categories of miners are expected to increase their payments. Since March 1, 2017, the size of insurance payments for 65,000 of these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u70	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u71	Thus, this bill, if adopted, will allow us to take the first step towards raising social standards in our country and, in particular, the level of pensions. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u72	Thank you. The report invites the Ukrainian National Deputy, Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u73	Respectable colleagues, respected TV viewers! I ask that you pay particular attention to this bill now, because it is this bill that determines how people will live next year. The Government is now proposing that the minimum wage and subsistence minimum be dissolved in 2017, which means that all our pensioners, persons with disabilities, single mothers, orphans, all those receiving social assistance today will remain below the poverty line and their social standard will be set at 1,762 bracelets next year. The Government is now offering you good promises of 3,000, 200 bracelets of minimum wage, and in fact they are opening the tariff network, and after that, both the janitor and the doctor and the higher-class teacher will receive the same salary. Just think about why go and work after that. I'd be happy to see people in technical jobs get a good decent salary. But how you humiliate all the people who work professionally in their field is not cynicism. The most inadequate norm is that the Government wishes to provide our pension to our pensioners next year. Dear colleagues, think of it as an anti-constitutional law, a law that threatens the country's social security. We therefore propose not to support Bill 5130 in any way, and we ask you to vote in favour of Bill 5130-1, which will help explain to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u74	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u75	We insist that the pension tax be abolished in order to index pensions and salaries at the same time, so that the tariff network is calculated from the minimum standard of 4,000,500 bracelets. This will allow people today to live in 2017, to pay for payments and to keep their families and their security for a little while. Please support Bill 5130-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u76	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Pensions of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, we are now considering a very important bill that applies to practically every person who works and receives a salary. We've really worked with the government, and this practically bill doesn't change anything in this year's rules, but it does improve the lives of every person, because it allows you to increase the minimum wage and determine its size, the practically actual standard of living is 3,000, 200 dollars. Our committee has considered this bill, and I will not be spending any time telling what the minister has already said. But we had some comments, and now they're almost in agreement with the government. And I want to say that we agree with the unions that say that we don't have to consult, but we have to agree with them on some of the rules that, in fact, the joint representative body will be present at all the negotiations, and we're talking about that, that, in fact, we all keep wage rates for three years that are included in the accrual of pensions. And that's why I want to say that we keep a lot of these standards that we have right now. I want to read under the transcript that the committee made. And please give me 30 seconds more time. In paragraph 15 of paragraph 2, paragraph 2. Subparagraph 2 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 15 to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u78	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u79	In paragraph 2 of Subparagraph 4 of paragraph 15, replace the words “representatives of all Ukrainian trade unions and all-U.S. employers’ representative associations” with the words “common representative body of trade unions and employers’ associations”. Paragraph 3 on article 40, delete paragraph 26. In paragraph 3 of paragraph 28, replace the words "established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" with words.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u80	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u81	Paragraph 5, paragraph 33, in the following wording: Article 10, paragraph 5 in the first part of the ninth paragraph, the words "in connection with temporary loss of work and losses ordered. Exclusion" funerals. In paragraph 2 of Subparagraph 43, paragraphs 2 and 3, delete paragraph 10, paragraph 43: " For students, students who study in highly deficient specialties, specializations in the field."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u82	The committee head is asking for a minute. I think we'll give you a minute to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u83	"...in the fields of knowledge of education: mathematical, natural and technical sciences is established by an increased size of academic scholarship. The list of such specialties, specializations and promotions is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." In paragraph 51, paragraphs 6, 7 on article 95, delete paragraph 9 after the words "on 1 January of the calendar year", add the words "and in which the payment decision is made". And End Positions, it's about miners. I very much ask for attention and support. The first paragraph of paragraph 2 after the words "Ministry of Internal Affairs" is completed with the words "National Police of Ukraine." Paragraph 7 should read as follows: "From 1 January 17 to set a new monthly insurance premium for those affected by accidents in production and occupational diseases in. This is a lower minimum wage rate of 100 per cent of the loss of employment."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u84	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u85	"with regard to the degree of loss of work." This paragraph applies to victims who are entitled to monthly insurance payments as of January 1, 17. Paragraph 10 should be supplemented by a new paragraph to that effect. "Prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the determination of the mechanism for verifying the reliability of information submitted by natural persons for the timely, full-time receipt of social benefits, benefits, subsidies, pensions, wages, other payments is made on the basis of a census of public funds into local budgets. The cost of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the funds of compulsory social insurance. ” In relation to that, 2.5 is considered to be the third. So I think we need to make a phrase so that we can make technical legal corrections to Chapter I and make them. And I, if you please, would like to support with these comments that I have expressed under the transcript, to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u86	Thank you. Please record: two for, two against. Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u87	He listened carefully to the speakers, especially from the Opposition Block, which was formerly called the Party of Regions and there's "Ukraine, come on!" I don't know what her name was. I remember the slogan of 600 you 100 euros in retirement. Unfortunately, it should be noted that there is even a category of pensioners in the country today who receive less than a thousand dollars. Some 600,000 of them, unfortunately. This is in modern European Ukraine. You know, and when we go to the election campaign, we read carefully the programs of all the parties that want to go to Parliament, it's written everywhere, pick us, we'll raise the pension. They just forget to explain how. And in order to raise pensions, you have to have the resources to do that. The current deficit of the Pension Fund amounts to 154 billion dollars. And so, dear colleagues, if you want to promise the pensioners something, you have to first answer the question where we're going to take this money. And this reform project, which is now being implemented by the government, has something to do with legalizing employment and pay issues right now. He delegates to local authorities the minimum wage control for what. In order for our parents, our grandparents, to finally get a decent pension. We now have almost twice as many pensioners as we have. How can a pension be lifted under such conditions?Oh, my God! You can't. So we need to legalize employment relationships. This question of delegation, decentralization, this question will be delegated to the authorities of local self-government. The government raised the tax base – 3,000 200 dollars today is there. It is necessary to ensure that entrepreneurs ensure that public authorities ensure that tariff nets provide the minimum level from which the EUC will be accounted for, the only social contribution. Which is why we're going to reduce the pension deficit, and eventually we're going to get a decent Ukrainian pension. This process will continue, but the first step is to be taken today. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u88	Thank you. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u89	Please pass the word to Igor Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u90	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues may have read in this room a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund signed by Ukraine's Prime Minister and President, which clearly states that the budget must have reduced the costs of the Pension Fund. And we can see that under this law, under the cover of such beautiful words as the withdrawal of high-level pensions from deputies, the raising of minimum wage is a completely trivial desire to reduce the budget costs of working pensioners, not by adopting laws on de-offshoring or just taxing the dividends of those with billions of dollars, and at the same time raising the budget's income. It's all going on with the simple pensioners. Dear friends, right now we're just continuing, most of us in the Supreme Council can continue for two years to ban the payment of pensions to civil servants and local self-government. For everyone to understand, it's not about NCREKP leaders or NACU managers with 100,000 or more wages, it's about the head specialist in the village council who gets 1200 dollars a month, it's about a printer in the city council who gets 1,300 dollars a month. It's not going to hit corrupt city heads, it's going to hit social security specialists who get the minimum wage, and it's already got the bonus and the bonus, because their bet is stuck at the minimum level. Everyone who works for the state and at the same time reaches retirement age loses the right to a pension. Now we have a disaster, no one wants to go to state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u91	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u92	Private positions in local administrations and local councils are 30 percent vacant. I don't think we can vote for this law, we need to adopt laws on de-offshoring dividend taxation, and we need to find the profits of the budget there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u93	Bondar Victor Vasilovich, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Bills 5130, 5131 together with the proposed draft budget for 2017 are challenging in places and not in our parliamentary group that are worrying, but very surprising because, in fact, these bills re-examine the entire system of financial decentralization. Bills are designed to provide education to local communities. And unfortunately, the grant, for example, for Starocostinov, today's educational city, covers 40 million education expenses by only 69.5 percent. This budget and the implementation of these laws will not be enough for a small town of the 17 million Starocostians. Plus, all the financial costs are passed on to pay the benefits, to pay the fares, to pay the fares, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, to pay the bills, And that won't be enough in Starocostinova's budget, for example, just a small, 10 million dollars. So we can see that the adoption of these two bills, along with such a government budget option, for example, only in Starocostinov, gives budget deficits to 28.5 million. So no capital costs, no hospital repairs, and so on. Second position. Minimum wage. If we just raise the minimum wage to 3,200, then we line up the guards at the school door, and we line the gardens up to the salaries of teachers and doctors who work every day, perform operations, teach children. We demand that not only raise the minimum wage, but a proportional review of the entire tariff network, so that at the same time the salaries of doctors, teachers are raised and that they actually have a proportional increase in their incomes, not that we raise the incomes of technical workers, and those who actually do a great job will remain on the old salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u95	Thank you. Final address, Gusak Vladimir Georgievicz. No, there'll be a Radical Party. Yeah? I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We'll have a decision in a few minutes. Now, the word is Gusak Volodymyr Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u96	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head! Government Bill 5130 is a powerful example of how today’s authorities are trying to make the so - called reforms of the poorest and most vulnerable Ukrainians pay. What else could be expected in the situation where Ukraine lost 20 percent of its economy today, and corruption is only rising. And it would seem a good idea to raise the minimum wage to 3,000 and 200 dollars. Who could be against it? But at the same time, with this good idea, this bill retains 15 percent of the pensioners who are retired, including 15 percent of the pensioners who are retired scientists, which was not before, the guaranteed payout of the student scholarships, that is, we beat the pensioners and we beat the young. What's more, it's impossible to raise, it's impossible to leave a minimum wage increase without a minimum pension, because in this case we're going to have a situation where without economic growth there's going to be a big price increase and maybe this price increase is not going to be twice, but 70-80 percent and working, they're going to win something. But without a raise, pensioners, especially those who are lonely, will be doomed. So we propose to support Bill 5031. And the last, but very important. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like to point out that if Bill 5130 was passed, our faction would have significant observations to it and therefore it could not be put on the ground as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two more factions per minute, and we'll move on to making a decision. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko, from the "Will of the People" – Olesia Long. One minute, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u98	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Many say that 3,200 minimum wage is low. Is it too little to ask people who now live on a pension of 947 dollars a month? Is it too little to ask those who receive a minimum wage of 1,000 dollars a month? So I think it's the right thing to do, and the government finally heard us that we've been trying for a year or a year and a half to raise your salary. But we think 3,200 is small, the minimum wage should be 5,000 dollars per month. So 3,200 is like a transition phase, first 3,200, and then after the first quarter, let's raise the minimum wage again and set it at a level of at least 5,000 dollars per month. The same applies to the minimum pension. We require the government to index pensions, especially those who receive less than a thousand dollars in pensions, and to set it at a level of at least 3,000 dollars a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u99	Olesi Long is one minute. Turn on the microphone and we'll vote after the show. Last performance. Please, Oles Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u100	Long, faction of the will of the people. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of the Economy, Mr. Secretary of State for Transport, I address you first of all, see, a good bill, a good idea to support and raise wages. Of course, we're all in favour of a wage increase. One question is, can we, when making proposals like this bill, show what real consequences for the economy as a whole? Can we show the Chamber of Deputies and every deputy how much taxes go up, whether it leads to job cuts in the real sector or vice versa? A specific question to the Minister of Transport, please tell me, there are now tens of thousands of mailmen working in Crucifixion, and they get much less than 3,000 200. "The Crucifixion" is a loss-making enterprise, or does it mean promotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u101	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u102	Does it mean raising wages to 3,000, 200, the release of thousands or tens of thousands of letters? Did you foresee any compensation? A specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. The closing word is now the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groysman, and we vote. Please, Vladimir Borisovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u104	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! In fact, in order for life in the country to change, we need to take responsibility and make decisions. We talked a lot about people needing a decent life. But it just doesn't happen that way. And we were actually looking for solutions that would allow us to make a minimum wage in the country at the level of a real living basket that we assume is real for 2017. And this figure is equal to 3,000 200 dollars since December 1st, our government has supported the factions of the coalition and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament that voted in favour of the changes in the Ukrainian budget, and since December 1st, we have raised the wage. Retirement by 10 percent. This is, of course, not much, it's between 150 and 350 dollars each of the pensioners. And of course, right now, our job is to raise wages, reduce the pension deficit, do everything we can to make sure that they have a basis and a basis for increasing the real pension. We realize that it's 949 dollars to live an unrealistic life today, and that's why it's an assignment for us to look for a solution and ask Parliament to support this decision. What has been said is that a specialist in the village council gets a thousand 600 dollars and he's going to get another pension. Guys, since January 1, 2017, this law has introduced a minimum wage of 3,000, 200 dollars. From the village to the great city, no one in our country will receive less than 3,000 200. This bill. [[Applause]] This is a bill that we've been discussing for a very long time with the unions, the profile committee, on factions, and we expect this decision to be supported today. In addition, this bill and the increase in minimum wage will lead to an improvement in the country's economy, an increase in consumption in the real economy and the creation of additional jobs. So today I urge the entire Ukrainian Parliament not to divide into factions of coalition and opposition, but to vote in favour of Bill 5130, for raising wages from January 1st to January 1st, from $3,000,200 and to move on. We'll spend the next six months, see what we can do. But first of all, we need to focus on minimum pensions right now. This is our task with you and the reduction of the pension deficit. Thank you and I will be grateful for the full support of this bill. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u105	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (5130) on the basis and proposal of a committee on the basis and in general with amendments announced by the head of the committee from the rostrum under the transcript. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:36:07]] For 227 Decision taken. We move on to the next issue of the agenda – the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for improving the composition and implementation of budgets) (number 5131). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the summary procedure, please. [[17:36:46]] For 185 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Alexander Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u106	Mr. Secretary, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u107	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Once again, I want to thank you for supporting the previous law that opens the way to adoption. an important component before the budget is adopted next year. Now I want to introduce the changes to the Budget Code. The adoption of the bill is extremely important because it introduces changes in the financing of education, medicine, and the social sphere that stimulate reforms in every field. The adoption of this bill will result in improved quality of education and medicine, increased social protection of the population, further decentralization and increased responsibilities and responsibilities in places, support and development of agriculture, and all of this will lead us to a balanced budget. The following are envisaged: in the field of education, it is proposed that the budget be allocated to the budget of the government for the preparation of qualified workers for the professions of public interest, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; it is proposed to refer to the responsibilities of local budgets for the maintenance of public education institutions, the recruitment of teaching staff for the benefit of educational subsidies, the payment of services for the preparation of qualified workers in the context of regional procurement in trade and other educational institutions; and the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to make allocations of educational subsidies and the direction of such expenditure: in the field of education, protection and health is offered to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u108	Please let me finish for two minutes. Dear colleagues, we are considering important bills. I'm asking for silence in the session room. Please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u109	Allow the Cabinet of Ministers to distribute the medical subsidy reserve and determine the direction of use of such expenses. In social protection, allocate funds for the delivery to citizens of grants for subsidies from the State budget for social security and social security, transfer the financing of the transfer to the site, harmonize the code with the mining law of Ukraine. It is also proposed in the area of the establishment of the State Regional Development Fund to standardize the establishment of budgetary allocations for the State Regional Development Fund not only in general but also in the State Budget Special Fund. Adjust the fund's spending on investment programs and regional development projects, on the creation of sport infrastructure, and propose to support agriculture on a systematic basis and provide support to the APC for the next 5 years at a level of at least one percent of the farmers. the release of the agricultural product. The adoption of the bill is extremely important because it introduces changes in the financing of education, medicine, and the social sphere that stimulate reforms in these areas. Regional empowerment and regional development funds are also being established. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u110	Thank you, Your Honor. And now the word for the co-report is given to the head of the Committee's Committee on Budget Affairs, Constantine Ischaykin. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u111	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs today, at its meeting, reviewed the draft Law (number 5131), the main position of which has just been presented to you by the government. Taking into account the main objective of the bill: to regulate issues related to the preparation of the draft Law on the State Budget for 2017, the discussion of proposals submitted by the Government and amendments to the Budget Code took place on the Committee, together with the drafting of the State Budget and the proposal of the National Deputies to it. The biggest discussion was, firstly, a new approach to providing educational and medical subsidies, secondly, insufficient financial support to local budgets for educational and health expenditure, including the maintenance and maintenance costs of a number of sanatoriums, thirdly, the lack of regulation of issues relating to the management and maintenance of the property of vocational and technical education institutions, as well as the observance of the State's debt security parameters. Today, taking into account the position of the Conciliation Council and the Government regarding the immediate adoption of the State Budget Act 2017, the main issues of the bill and its impact on the State Budget indicators were discussed on the next day. This supported a number of proposals that were mainly technical and regulatory in nature and aimed at harmonization of legislation, as well as details of the provisions on channelling the State Regional Development Fund’s funds to the provision of sport infrastructure, clarifying the rules on the allocation of education and medical subsidies, the position on the formation of the budgets of the unified territorial communities in which the first local elections would take place in December 2016 and 2017, the continuation by 2017 of the experiment on the inclusion in the budgets of the separate regions of the part from the overcoming of customs payments. In addition, the proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u112	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u113	In addition, the government’s proposal to divert part of the excise tax from fuel to local self - government budgets in connection with the possibility of cancelling the local excise duty on petroleum products has been supported. Such proposals were made in the opinion of the Committee to the Supreme Council on the bill. In view of the foregoing, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 5131 to the Supreme Council as a result of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u114	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u115	taking into account the suggestions made in the Committee’s list of conclusions. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should make the necessary editorial and technical legal provisions when establishing the relevant law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u116	The committee's position is clear. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we are now moving on to a discussion. According to the Rules, honourable Mr. Maxime, we need to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up for factions two in favor, two in front of you to discuss this bill. Please. Please, Sergey Kudlainko of the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u117	Please pass the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u118	Alexy Hotcharenko, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, we need to adopt this law in order to be able to balance the budget in 2017. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this project, we are finally asked to address the issue of vocational and technical education through the allocation of appropriate subsidies for vocational and technical education. I also want to draw your attention to one important point, namely, social speech. The point is that, as far as I know, there will be an amendment to the Committee on Freedom of Speech that will propose that we abolish the rule that we are currently offered in this bill that public speaking may be left without protected funding and that we will translate it into a so-called manual regime. And that's why I'm asking you, colleague, to support this bill, to support the position of the committee, but in view of the committee's amendment of freedom of speech, which I hope we will now hear about financing public speaking, because this is an extremely important project for Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u120	Thank you for the faction's position. Olesz Long of the People's Will, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u121	Long, faction of the will of the people. Mr. Minister of Finance, please pay attention when you report your bill. Mr. Secretary of Finance!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u122	Mr. Secretary of Finance, Mr. Daniluk, you are being approached by the "Will of the People" Group, please pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u123	We would like both our faction and many other factions to hear a simple explanation from you. Please tell me, does raising wages to 3,000, 200 dollars, along with the bills that we've passed, which we're offered to accept, mean increasing, including in budget institutions? Does this apply exclusively to businesses and the private sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to make a statement to all those who sign up. And then we'll give a summary word to the honourable minister. Mrs. Victoria Sumar of the People's Front. I'm paying attention to the halls. Victoria now presents the position not only of her faction but also of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, which deals with the issue of public speaking. That's why I'm asking for your attention. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u125	Dear colleagues! Our committee was looking into the matter. And I have to say that even though we generally support him. But there is one very dangerous norm that can stop us from reforming social speech. Because you and I passed the Social Speech Act, which provides for guaranteed funding of 0.2 percent of the budget. And that actually makes the social language independent. And the law provides that both public speaking and the innovation system can be financed by the government for its own consideration. Thus, the government can either give money to a convenient channel or not give it away. That's why our committee's decision is to support it. And the members of our committee are willing to vote in favour of this law only if, in article 103, paragraph 26, a paragraph is deleted, which reads: "To complete the paragraph after the words and figures in article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Social Television and Broadcasting" with the words and figures of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Innomination System, "The News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" in 2016. Thank you, Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman. We've spoken to him. He supports this position. So we urge you to vote in favour of this bill, taking into account the deletion of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u126	Thank you. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to think for a moment, here's what you're voting for. You take a pension tax from pensioners, you don't increase their pension, you transfer the work of the social sector to the manual. Just think about it, because when you come to your constituents, finding the guilty will be very difficult. At the same time, you are voting in favour of spending the euro and allocating $455 million for political parties, 442 million and another billion dollars for the total unimportant costs to date, not the top priority. But at the same time, you take every pensioner's travel allowance. In this bill, you propose to transfer the financing of tuberculosis sanatoriums and sanatoriums for children and adolescents to local budgets. Well, let's stop, one of Europe's richest parliaments can't take the last money from pensioners and children, it's not just a right. And when you say there's no money, there's money in the budget today, but why don't you just give it to the people who need it most. We will not vote in favour of this bill. And we think it's not only not fair, but it's mean. It's mean to the most vulnerable people in Ukraine. So please look at what you are voting for, and think about how you will look into the eyes of old people, children, and young people by making such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u128	Thank you. From the factions. Okay. We haven't heard from the factions in a minute, Yacenko, Lazko, Sergey Sobolev. Please, Yatzenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, well, this bill reminds us of such a, you know, late feudal document, when local budgets are charged, first, non-pedagogical personnel, communal tariffs all for utilities, freight, concessional transport. For example, there are 24,000 people in Umane. And a lot of other stuff. For example, there remains a norm when orchards are financed from local budgets. That is to say, today, under the auspices of the so-called decentralization, we have full, local budgets, that is the situation. I therefore call on colleagues, despite the fact that, of course, the budget must be adopted, as always at the end of the year, but let us, if we are spending, provide a source and income, detonation of a number of spheres. And today, unfortunately, all we see is that they increase the costs of local budgets and put them on their knees through the pitfalls and other things they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u130	Please, from the Radical Party Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. The last bill was supported by our faction because it raises the minimum wage to 3,000 200 dollars, it's the more people get the money, it's a childishization of the economy, it's an increase in the income of the Pension Fund, and so our pensioners are finally going to get even more pensions. But what we see now. Now you've proposed to us a bill that is actually an antisocial bill in which the state gives up most of its functions and translates them into local budgets, while most Ukrainians are deprived of social rights. So our faction for this antisocial bill will not vote. You say there's no money in the pension budget, for the disabled, and for the orphans. Three billion dollars were found at the prosecutor’s office, two billion dollars were found at the court’s office, and money was found on all other Darmoids. Take it from there and give it back.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u132	Thank you. "Paternity," Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u133	Sobolje, Fatherland. Unfortunately, the previous bill, which claims to raise the minimum wage, as we understand it, does not have any leverage due to manipulations with a minimum cost of living and a tariff net. And it's easy to verify from those documents that the government has submitted. This bill is unique at all. You see, this bill actually translates the left side of responsibility into local councils. At the same time, we understand what happens to gas prices, tariffs, and this responsibility now lies directly with all local councils. But a key article, which was done through excise duties, is taken away from local councils. I think that these manipulations lead to one, to a full balance between the budgets of local councils and, in fact, to the fact that everyone will continue to run to Kiev for additional subsidies. Our faction will not vote in favour of this bill and will urge the House to review politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u134	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u135	And look at the policy of cleaning up villages and cities, villages that are actually about to be implemented by this bill. So our proposal is absolutely clear, or in these circumstances, we're looking at the order in which we finance the local budgets, where we give them additional resources, or in that way it's destruction of local resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. The Supreme Council's apparatus please urge all deputies to enter the Hall. And the final word I give to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u137	Thank you. Mr. Head, honourable fellow members of the people's deputies, I thank you very much for your approval of the basis and, as a whole, the previous law, which allows for the establishment in Ukraine of a wage of 1 January 2017 at a minimum of 3,000,200 dollars. For all those who are concerned that this is not going to happen, I want to assure you that this is going to happen, you probably know who was against this law, and people are going to get from 3,000 200 out of 1 January. Besides what we've done, friends. For the first time, we've installed a single tariff grid of the first charge at the level of 600 bracelets. There has never been such a sharp increase in the first class. This means that everyone who works in the budget sector will receive from 3,000 200, and all teachers, doctors will continue to receive pay by December 1, 2016, up to 30 to 50 percent. This will mean that we are actually starting to put people's faith in income. And that's our job. So all those who talk today that it's not going to happen, no, it's going to happen, it's a perfect fact. Now for the financial decentralization system. Many of the colleagues in this room know that I am one of the authors of the decentralization of power in Ukraine in general in terms of remittances, in terms of finance. I want to tell you that these few years in Ukraine, local budgets are rising by 50 percent or more each year. During the 11 months of 2016, they increased by 44 billion dollars. Now, as for authority and responsibility. Whoever doesn't know the game, decentralization consists of three parts: the authority, the financial responsibility. If we just transfer the funds, they're going to be spent on our own judgment, but when we transfer the funds, the financial tools, and we define the task, then it's the task of the government and it starts to work. And, indeed, yes, we think that the whole educational process in the country has to be financed by the state, and we're going to ensure that wages are raised by both the education community and the doctors. Now for the utilities. All utilities are owned by local communities and local budgets. Moreover, the Heatcommunergo, which gives them bills, belongs to local communities -- 90 percent. This means that they count and pay for themselves. And I have a question: where is the incentive for energy efficiency and savings? None. It can be created when I pay for the service myself and actually save money on this service. So our job is to make the funds that are on deposit today. The local budget, which is tens of billions a year, was invested in energy efficiency, infrastructure, alternative energy sources and many other things, eventually in the conditions of children today: schools, gardens and hospitals. That's why nothing bad is going to happen. But in order to help small areas, small communities, we determine that 14.9 billion dollars will be directed to support the weak, to those who need this support and assistance. So I'm fully responsible as a person who understands local self-government, and a person who has a bearing on decentralization in the country, including financial, I say that there are no losses, no problems in the local budgets, and there will be no problems. I would like to point out that by 2013, there was only one year when local budgets were allowed to receive small subsidies: 5, 10 million dollars, that was 2005. 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 you used that money. You're hand-in-hand, hand-in-hand, hand-in-hand, you're hand-in-hand, you're hand-in-hand, you're hand-in-hand, you're hand-in-hand, you're hand-in-hand, you're hand-in-hand, you're hand-in-hand, you're hand-in-hand, We've broken this system. And I have a bearing on the fact that we broke it. For local budgets, we have 9 billion dollars. More! That's 3.5 billion dollars for the DFRD, which is automatically distributed. When did this happen? Why don't you tell me from this rostrum? One-and-a-half billion dollars are for local communities that are united. When did this happen? You screamed at the entire hall, "Don't vote for unification, don't vote for centralization, don't vote for financial decentralization!" Look at your votes! And you're going to talk about decentralization. There never was, and now there is. There will be. Local budgets will affect development, including the local economy. So I ask you to stop all speculation and insinuation and support the local budgets. And as for the excise, which I know today, MPs are making a lot of calls to the mayors, because from this rostrum some of the irresponsible politicians may be misleading everyone, as always. The point is that if we introduced the excise, which is budgeted locally, and I also have a direct attitude, there would be no Deputy Prime Minister Groissman in the government of Yatsenuk, there would be no such authorization, there would be no resources. So I know what I'm talking about, and I'm talking responsible. So that's what happened. The fillings in places, they started cutting off guns, like actual guns, and they started paying less in the budgets of local communities. This led to illegal incursions in a country where petrol is cheaper and cheaper because it avoids paying for the excise duty. Another year, two more will be reduced from this tax. Because we're proposing? We suggest that 5 percent be paid by all: who produces 100 percent and who imports 100 percent. Then we accumulate it in the central budget, and automatically, I emphasize, write this formula yourself, and I agree with it. We automatically budget every city, village, village, community, and budget. Where this gasoline was sold, there's no point in cutting off the guns. So, year after year, you'll see that there's going to be an increase in local budgets, and the total amount of excise collection is going to go up by 2 billion that will go into local budgets. So I ask all the responsible deputies to support this decision, to support this position, and you won't be ashamed of it, and I've talked about it more than once, coming to my communities, looking at what roads, gardens, hospitals, schools and everything that's necessary for a normal life. So thank you so much for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking all national deputies to take up jobs. Once again, I ask all national deputies to take up their jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for improving budgeting and budgeting) (number 5131) on the basis of, my colleague, with the readjustment pronounced by Victoria Sumar under the stenogram from this rostrum. I emphasize that's just the basis, but even on the basis of that, the deletion of that item that Victoria Sumar announced from the stage under the transcription will be taken into account. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs and support the draft Law (5131) on the basis of the amendment made by Sumar under the stenogram. Please be supportive. Please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[18:04:55]] For 204 My colleagues, I made it very clear that Law 5131 was the basis. That's very clear. Offered in general. There'll be an offer. We're going to vote as a basis -- I'll put it all together, if that's what it takes. I'll put it all together if that's what we call it if we vote for it. Colleagues, we'll make a comeback first. I ask you, colleagues, to support the proposal: return to consideration 5131. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please support me. [[18:06:01]] For 229 We're back. Colleagues, if there is a requirement and a decision of the committee, I make an offer. One minute, okay. Who? The head of the committee, please, one minute. Head of the Committee on Budgets, Andrew Pavelko Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u139	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. There's an offer. Today, a decision has been made on the budget committee. All the adjustments that were taken into account and the proposal was a basis and a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u140	I'm voting on the proposal as a basis and as a whole draft of Law 5131. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[18:07:05]] For 211 There is no support for the proposal as a whole, colleagues. Why I proposed on a basis, then we can make a decision. Colleagues, on the basis of that, we can make a decision. I'm asking everyone to concentrate. I'm asking you to come back now, and I'm just going to lay the groundwork. We don't have votes for the committee's proposal. My colleagues, I would like to stress once again: the discussion is now over. I'm voting for the first proposal to go back to the debate, second one on the basis. Understood, colleagues? So the first proposal is to go back, the second proposal is based. I'm asking you to focus. The first proposal is to return to consideration 5131. Please vote, please support. Please back up, please. [[18:08:16]] For 232 And I'm laying the groundwork for Law 5131, on the basis of my colleagues. Based on what I've been stressing from the beginning. Please support everyone on a base, colleagues. Please, 5131 on the ground. Please vote, please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[18:08:47]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you now. Colleagues, when you scream out of place, I warn you, I don't hear what you're saying. It's a very simple thing. Now I'm going to set up a simplified procedure to consider the second reading. Colleagues, please concentrate. Consideration for second reading by a reduced procedure. I request this proposal, and I urge you to support and vote on the simplified procedure for the second reading. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please support me. Short procedure, please support, colleagues. [[18:09:47]] For the 220. I'll ask you again, colleagues. I'm asking you to focus. Short - term procedure is enough to allow us to accept remedies. All right, one minute. Colleagues, I'm going to re-suppose one minute from the group, they can change their position. So we will listen to their offer and ask Bondar for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u141	Thank you very much. Regrettably, we have to beat that price every minute for a speech in the Supreme Council. And that's not right, that's not how government and parliament work. If you want to hear and receive voices, you need to hear each other. That's the first one. And the others. We once again demand, we voted on the basis, and then there's the question of clarifying all the local budgets, what we said at the outset. You can't, with approaches like this right now, approach and throw expenses into the hall on local budgets, where you've completely failed to get all the maintenance of schools, hospitals, and so on, benefits. We have to do the math, sit together and work together, it's a week, and then we'll talk about how we vote next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u142	Colleagues, a reduced procedure for consideration of second reading is a week of amendments, then another committee meeting. This is a normal form that completely allows all proposals to be made. So I ask you once again to support the proposal for a shorter period of submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading. Please support, please vote 5131, reduced procedure for second reading. Please support and please vote. Vote, fellows! [[18:11:54]] For 227 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows. Decision taken. We have a basis and we have a simplified procedure. My colleagues, according to the Rules, I have the right to continue the bill for only 15 minutes. We had an extremely important day of security and defence issues today, and so we moved on to budgetary issues that are equally important. I will now ask you, colleagues, to vote for the continuation of the work until the end of the budget issues, my colleague. Colleagues, but I can now put the next bill on the table, and we'll have to work until it's finished. Yes, I continued for 15 minutes. Now it's 18.12. And now I'm looking at the next draft of Law 5132, 5132-1. And I'm proposing a reduced procedure. Could I have your support, please? Please support a reduced procedure. I continued the session for 15 minutes, and at the time, we put it. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[18:13:27]] For 196 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Finance Minister Daniluk Alexandre Alexandrovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u143	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The main objective of Bill 5132 is to ensure that revenue increases to the 2017 budget and to promote its balance. Another important task is to bring Ukrainian legislation closer to European Union standards. Finally, due to the increase in the minimum wage of up to 3,000,200 dollars, the bill has been revised into separate provisions of the Tax Code, which are linked to the minimum wage. In particular, it is suggested that fines and local taxes should not be increased. This will avoid the burden on taxpayers. The bill provides for a portion of VAT in order to prevent VAT abuse and to obtain unwarranted VAT compensation, it is proposed to create accounts in an electronic VAT administration system that are additionally open to enterprises. These accounts will be closed from the day following the December 2016 tax deadline. This could be used by payers who chose the quarterly tax period of the fourth quarter of 2016. Power companies that have chosen a special VAT tax regime will be required to register tax consignment notes in a single register no later than 15 January 2017. This will help to avoid the abuse that took place this year. In part of the excise tax, excise duties on alcoholic beverages will increase by 20 percent, and wine production and low - liquor drinks will increase by 12 percent on tobacco products by 30 percent. This is about a specific bet. This will help reduce the number of smokers, contribute to the nation’s recovery, and reduce the amount of unquality alcohol in the market. It is suggested that a single excise tax be imposed on diesel fuel. 125 euros per thousand liters. Currently, there are differentiated rates: 125 and 95 euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u144	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u145	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u146	In part of the environmental tax and rent, it is suggested that environmental taxes and wages be reviewed, taking into account consumer price index and producer prices. In 2016 they are projected at 112 and 110 and 4 percent. Increase interest rates for use of radio frequency resources. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u147	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Kostin Evgeniyovich. Ischakin. Colleagues, please, Eugene Nina Petrovna is a co-reporter. I'm sorry, I haven't redrafted the bill yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, as just reported by the Minister of Finance, the bill is intended in general to increase the resource base for the formation of the State Budget for 2017. The amended bill (registration number 5132) included a proposal for government bills that had previously been submitted to the Supreme Council 4619 and 5044. As a result of the draft bill's working groups, registration number 5132 has been developed to address comprehensively the reconciliation issues of the proposed legislative money that are added to you and that require the inclusion of registration number 5132 in the government bill. The proposals for an alternative bill 5132-1 in these proposals are fully taken into account by the committee. Taking into account the above and taking into account the need for rapid adoption of the law, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: a draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine to ensure the balance of budgetary revenues in 2017, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the preparation for second reading, at short notice. If you have to stop for some change, I'm ready because there are a lot of changes that the finance minister has just reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u149	Thank you. A report by the author of the national deputy of Ukraine, Artemenko Andrej Viktorovich. Artemenko Andry Viktorovich, is there a need for a report? I won't. So I'm asking you to do a recording: two for, two against. Please. Olés Long, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u150	I'm sorry! Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear Chairman, I would like you to note that our faction has twice taken the floor and twice asked specific questions to the ministers present, and we have received no answer. The adoption of these laws will then need to be interpreted in the districts and explained, explaining to people who ask us specific questions. That's why I'm asking these ministers to give answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u151	Thank you. Irina Mikolayevna, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u152	The Peter Prashenko faction will support the bill. This bill regulates the budgetary process, namely, part of the government budget. In other words, this bill is a resource for the State Budget, that is, a bill aimed at increasing its profit. The innovations proposed in the bill should be noted. It's a radio rent adjustment. There is now a situation where in its time, and specifically during the reign of Yanukovich, there were many radio frequencies distributed to its people for future reselling. The result is that we can't, for example, provide IT services because there's no frequency. Now all the frequencies are holding, they're being paid for in the state budget. And the owners are waiting for a future buyer. This is an unacceptable situation that is being corrected by the law. Another important point is the increase in excise duty on alcoholic beverages – 20 per cent, wine and soft drinks – for the consumer price index – by 12 per cent, and for tobacco products by 30 per cent. The "Block of Peter Prashenko" supports the bill's first reading, and the second, as Nina Petrovna pointed out, is short-circuited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u153	Thank you. I'm going to announce the next Pisarenek Valery Volodymyrovich. By the way, I want to remind you that every faction in every bill has the right to speak and there's no need to beat that word out in any way, it's, it's stipulated by law, I abide by that law. So, colleagues, I also want to let you know that we are working until the finalization of this bill, according to the Rules, started at a time set by law, and we cannot interrupt it. This is the last piece of legislation that we're considering today, so I'm asking everyone to stay put, stay put. In a few minutes, the discussion will be concluded, and we will move on to making a decision. I now give the floor to Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich. Please. And then it's Debt. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u154	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, you know, today we are looking at a lot of bills that will have a significant impact on the life of the state next year. And it is very important for us to do so with you. This is also about the bill that we've just been looking at before, so that you and I can pay attention to the local budgets. We cannot lead them to poverty by our actions with you. That is why we have insisted and will support Parliament's work in the first reading regime. And with regard to this bill, we will also propose the first reading to vote, but we still need to work on the amendments. Because if we run very fast with you today and vote very quickly, even if we don't read a lot, next year we can get the result that will lead to even more crisis than we have today. So our proposal is not to vote in general, but only on the first reading, and it's very careful to work on these bills on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u155	Thank you. Please, Dobrenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u156	Thank you very much, Your Honor Chairman. Honourable MPs, citizens of Ukraine, in the opposition block faction, it's a more constructive offer. For this bill, and in general for the budget, which is proposed for 17 years, it will not be supported or voted on at all, because it is indeed a resource bill. But what does he mean? He understands that 5 percent of the excise tax is eliminated from retail sales, fuel-oil materials. This is the decentralization that the current government has been telling us about. That's what he was talking about, that if this law were to be passed, and the opposition bloc faction was against this legislative initiative first, the financial communities would become financially independent. It didn't happen. And according to this bill, it is proposed to centralize the specified financial resources and distribute them through the State budget of Ukraine. This is how a valid government sees decentralization. That's why we're against this initiative, in general, against this bill. And we call on you not to support this shameful bill aimed at centralising financial resources, but at transferring some of the taxes to local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u157	Thank you. From "Fatherland" Ivan Stojko, one minute, please. And after that, I'm sorry, after that, let's move on to making a decision. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall. And the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Please turn on the microphone, Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u158	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will under no circumstances support this bill. Because this bill is not really about actually filling the income part of the budget. This bill deals with further pressure on small and medium-sized businesses, to drive small entrepreneurs into the shadows. Instead, if the government really did listen to the proposals made by Fatherland, we could really find real possibilities in the budget to increase the income. Only 77 billion dollars since the adoption of two laws on de-offshoring. Why is there no increase in dividend tax in these changes to the Tax Code? Why should ordinary citizens pay 18 percent of their taxes, while dividend oligarchs pay 5 percent?Oh, my God! Where is justice? According to our estimates, only by increasing dividend taxes could resources be added to at least 7 billion bracelets. Why do we not make decisions by these laws regarding the legalization of amber production?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u159	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u160	This legalization of amber may have provided an additional resource of 5 billion. It's really the real supply and the real resource that could be in the income part of the budget. It's not all there. Pressure continues on small and medium-sized enterprises that Fatherland cannot support for ideological reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u161	Colleagues, I will now give the floor to the head of the Southern Nina Petrovney Committee to make it clear what the vote will be. It's just going to be the basis, just the basis. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, and in a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, in order to take into account all the proposals made by the national MPs, which involved weakening or improving the conditions for small and medium-sized business, it was on the committee that made the proposals that were now given to you. Please read carefully, there are almost all the initiatives that are registered on our committee. I'm asking you to pay attention to this table, this is all our proposals with you in a year all worked out. Moreover, at the committee meeting today, I apologize for the late handovers, since proposals were still made for legislation to support the village. I'm asking you to make a change under the transcript to the table that we gave you, and we haven't been able to correct the two technical amendments. Under the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine in Article 16 Prime. 1 in the definition of an agricultural enterprise that is entitled to a budget grant. To replace the word "surrendered" and to put only those who produce agricultural products over the last 12 months. And in Article 16 prim.1.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u163	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u164	where certain species that need support are added to the cultivation of nuts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u165	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. I'm stressing the basis for nothing. And then I'm going to set up a simplified procedure for consideration for the second reading. I ask you to concentrate as much as possible. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure the balance of budget revenues in 2017 (number 5132) on the basis of the amendments announced by the chairman of the committee of the Southerne Nina Petrovna from the rostrum. On the basis of that, colleagues. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please support, we vote. [[18:29:21]] For 229 Decision taken. I now make a proposal to review the reduced procedure for second reading, and I also forcefully ask all my colleagues to support the proposal. Please, 5132 - review for second reading by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please vote, please support. [[18:29:54]] For 225 Guys, I'm asking you to come back to the hall. I'm gonna set up again. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I'm once again making a proposal and asking everyone to concentrate. 5132 - consideration of the reduced procedure for second reading. Colleagues, please support the consideration of the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour. [[18:30:31]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please, just a moment more, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Groissman. Please, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u166	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished fellow national deputies! On behalf of the government, I would like to thank you personally for supporting legislative initiatives. And I want to assure you that after the 2017 budget, Ukraine will develop, and people will feel it. But this depends directly on your continued involvement and support of the necessary laws. Thank you very much again for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-06-m1.u167	Thank you, Your Honor. We still have the bills needed for the budget, and we're going to put them on Thursday with the first questions to be considered. Dear colleagues, I'd like to give you a message. I have just received a ruling from the regulatory committee on the removal of the inviolability of the Ukrainian national deputy, Vadim Novinski. The committee's decision opens up an opportunity for me to put this issue on the floor, and I plan to put this issue first on Thursday to Parliament for a decision. My position remains unchanged: no national MP has the right to hide behind inviolability. If there is a charge of committing a crime, let every citizen prove his or her right in court. All representations of the Attorney General's Office should be considered publicly in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Our work will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the meeting at 10 o'clock to continue our work. Thank you, all the best.
