ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning! Who won in the morning? Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. In one minute, the registration will take place. Please, colleagues, come into the hall, we're getting ready. Ready, colleagues? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct an enrollment. Please register. [[10:03:14]] 335 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Andrija Valentinovich Nemirowski. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Welcome to your birthday. And I would like to report that in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are members of the government in charge of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman. Welcome to Vladimir Borisovich. [[Applause]] Today, according to the Rules and Plan of Work, we have an hour of questions to the government. The procedure for conducting "Questions to the Government" is defined in section 4 of Rule 229 of the Rules. And I remind you that the first half-hours will be the report of Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko and Deputy Prime Minister Ivanna Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze. And then for half an hour, questions from MPs, colleagues. Does this form of work take place? Can we start an hour of questions to the government, colleagues? Then I invite Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko to the rostrum. Please, Mr. Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Andrey Parobius! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I have a question from the People's Front faction about protecting the information space. I'm not going to read it all, because it's going to spread, but it's just the point. From time to time, reports of the spread of Russian books and printed publications containing anti - Ukrainian propaganda have appeared in the information space. In view of this, we ask what steps the government is taking to protect the Ukrainian market from Russian printed anti - Ukrainian content products, which is one of the tools of Russian information aggression against Ukraine and threatens national security. Thank you for asking. And I'll report it. We've been with you since 2014, the last call, and already this call, have limited the aggressor country's information capabilities in our information space. You remember that in the 14th year, a large number of Russian channels fell under the ban on their retranslation. Parliament then passed a decision on the protection of information space, and aggressive anti-Ukrainian film production was also banned after January 1st, 14th, and all of the aggressor country's products that promote their power structures and fuel hatred and inter-national hostility. Also, a large part of the actors of art and culture, as well as other members of the Russian Federation, who actively hold the position of not recognizing Ukraine’s state sovereignty and territorial integrity, are subject to sanctions, and the works and products associated with them are also subject to substantial restrictions in Ukraine. These decisions of parliament and government have greatly protected Ukraine's television and radio spaces. But there was a gap in printed products, both in printed media and in book products. And probably the last drop that filled the cup was the spread right in the middle of Kiev in the spring of this year at the largest book fair in Kiev, the "Book Arsenal" of the last book of the toutinian propagandist, and in fact the "putinian Gebels," otherwise you can't call it, Dugina. He is a puzzling publicist who does not recognize the existence of the Ukrainian people at all, who directly urges the Ukrainians to be killed in his works. And his book, so beautifully made, in such a good cover, spread completely legally in the territory of Ukraine, could be purchased directly at the most prestigious book fair. It was discovered, and it was true that this type of product was unhindered, and without any restrictions it came to Ukraine. And these cases are not alone. We knew about the problem, but we were looking for a solution. We took a large group of publishers, authors, writers, publicists, and took several steps. The first stage under consideration was a license for a Russian book, rejected because there were a lot of regulatory complications. The second stage was related to the imposition of restrictive duties, and some international commitments made by Ukraine were rejected. And this is the third stage, and where we decided to stop as an effective decision, the introduction of the permit system, but for book production, exclusively by the origin of the aggressor country. This decision was discussed at all government levels, a public debate took place, then a cabinet meeting took place, and members of the government unanimously supported the bill. It is now registered with you, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under number 5114, and has the title "The Bill of Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Limitation of Access to the Ukrainian Market for Foreign Printed Production of Anti-Ukrainian Content". By the way, about the state of the book market on this subject. Official statistics, and this is very interesting, show a steady decline in Russian book imports into Ukraine. 2012: imported for $33 million. In 2013 it was 23 million, 2014: the beginning of Russian aggression, by 12 million dollars of imports from Russia of books. 2015: The year is now $3.7 million. Now, according to the Association of Publishers and Bookellers, not more than $2 million in 8 months this year has been imported to Ukraine from Russia, but this is official. And the big problem is that it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, it's going black, And here's the cheese, when essentially private people, actually doing entrepreneurial work, are bringing in half a ton of books in one microbus, this "sir import" continues to flourish, and that's where this anti-Ukrainian product, which is fueling international hostility, does not recognize Ukraine's existence, burns our fighters and volunteers, etc. According to a survey by an Internet publisher of books, but authoritative, and there is good reason to believe that if you take consumption patterns, up to now up to 70 percent of the books distributed in Ukraine are from Russia by fact, not by official import statistics. At the same time, 1,243 publications last year were active in Ukraine, of which only 300 were Ukrainian, 300, or 25 percent, roughly. One book offers 2.5, even a little more books in Russian. Here's the actual state of the book market and the supply on it. This is also because anyone can essentially put 50 kilograms of books in a suitcase from Russia, get on a microbus, and there are 10 entrepreneurs, and bring in half a ton, including anti - Ukrainian books, half a ton, to Petrovka or to Barabbasov to Harkow. And especially in the south and east, the agency's attempt to spread this Ukrainian product is the largest. So the actual state of the book market says that we should introduce regulatory restrictions and introduce transparent regulatory procedures to protect our Ukrainian book market. In what way is this proposed? Clearly, a permissive principle, as I have already stated, but this principle applies only to books originating in Russia and from those imported from the temporarily occupied territory. This does not apply privately to legal persons and individuals (entities of entrepreneurial activity). But we're reducing the limits and we're saying, if you're taking a book from Russia, in this case, 10 copies of the book is enough for you. If you carry 50 kilograms and your mate another 50 kilograms, and your friend another 50 kilograms, this is clearly for entrepreneurial activity. So this gray imports, the gray imports of this bill we're going to limit. As the central authority of the executive authority responsible for the bookkeeping and distribution, a public expert board will be set up. This public expert board will be composed of publishers, authors, book critics, psychologists, professionals from all the profiles who will, on the request of importers, test all products originating in the Russian Federation. But at the same time, the importer has to give confirmation of copyright, which is often not widely available in Ukraine, on the books that are being distributed here from Russia, and also give a review of the main summary of the contents of this book. Ten days in law, a public expert board is given permission or a valid refusal to grant a permit. So there's going to be no one there for months, weeks, years to get a permit, and we strongly suggest that we limit it in ten days. And we know about this, and the main thing is, experts know, the list of publishers and publishers who specialize in anti-Ukrainian publications and who are trying to dump it here in Ukraine. So in view of this, the normal literature that can be imported from the Russian Federation, well if there is one, let's say, scientific, scientific and technical, some kind of artist, it's not going to get hurt at all and it's going to get permits in the right order. At the same time, we're also going to encourage our publications and our publishers, because it's not a secret that so many translations are made from Western foreign languages in Russia, and then the last works are brought into translation, let's say, from English, French, German to Russian here, to Ukraine, and it's offered by our consumer. Such approaches as we propose in this bill will also encourage our publishers to work directly with Western authors, to translate. And you passed the Law on the Establishment of a Book Institute, which has proper budgetary funding, which is already being launched, and one of the main tasks for which is to finance translations, the latest modern translations, from foreign languages to Ukrainian and Ukrainian languages to Western languages, to the languages of civilized nations. So these are the limits that are for. Anti-Ukrainian literature will be introduced, and it will also stimulate the production of publications by our publisher, the distribution of new books, and the expansion of the range and supply. It is foolish that those who do not comply with this bill will be penalized if the rules proposed are passed. But the bill foresees a transition period of three months so that those bookstores that they now have, because they still have, and so far, in their range, those books that have anti-Ukrainian orientation, they re-invent their own assortment, their own supply, and remove from the sale all those publications in which, at least, the slightest hint of anti-Ukrainian content, anti-Ukrainian orientation, or the burning of international hostility. I want to say that this bill, 5114, which is designed to protect the Ukrainian book market, is approved by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is a consolidated position of the Ukrainian government. But before that, and in general, this idea has been discussed on a multi-level basis at all necessary levels among publishers, publishers, authors, book critics, and this approach has public support. This was recently the Lviv Publishing Forum, which was a lively discussion. Clearly, there are some opposers who believe that this avalanche of books, including this Putin anti - Ukrainian propaganda, does not need to be stopped. Say, they're still importing what they want. But most publishers, including the Russian - speaking book in Ukraine, claim in one voice that such a government initiative needs support. So I propose that we consider this bill as soon as possible in Parliament. It's already registered and listed as a profile committee for the Victoria Sumar Committee. We are ready for all necessary discussions and discussions at the meeting of the profiling committee. And I think there's no reason to think that by the end of this, 2016, the Ukrainian Parliament can adopt this bill, and thus take a very important step to protect the Ukrainian book market from the production of anti-Ukrainian content and, in fact, from the Putin propaganda that flourishes so far on some books and markets, which continues to wash the minds of Ukrainians, so that the tension in the east and in the south continues to take place, and to sow in the souls and hearts of Ukrainians again mistrust, hatred, strife between us, among themselves and to create their "black work". The Ukrainian authorities, if they are Ukrainian and are now such authorities in Ukraine, should do their job. And among the top priorities facing the government is the task of providing humanitarian security. Because all the questions, including the ones we've been looking at recently: the quota for a Ukrainian-speaking song on radio, the protection of television and so on, and now the protection of the book market -- it's not a language issue taken separately, it's not a book market or a radio issue. Individually taken, this is a matter of national security for Ukraine, which is an integral part of the issue of humanitarian security. And it was disregard for these issues that all past years of our new independence have caused some people to succumb to hostile anti - Ukrainian Putin propaganda. The conclusions have been made, it is not possible to allow this to continue, we will continue to take all necessary measures or to protect Ukrainian humanitarian space. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u3	Heroim Slava! Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. I want to tell you that next week, among the blocks that we've planned, it's going to be a block, a reminder, an ecology, an enterprise block, Mr. Halasyuk, a block on the HKG, but there's also going to be a block by culture. And I'm very much asking that you and the committee prepare these bills, which are both very restrictive and important, so that we can look at them and make decisions about them. Thank you very much. The Vice-Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, Ivan Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze, is now invited to the floor. Mrs. Ivanna, please. Miss the Deputy Prime Minister, the National Deputies. Please, Mrs. Ivanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, I am very pleased to have the opportunity to address you today and to talk to you about the state of our Euro-integration aspirations. Right now we have a stage in which we have and can sum up the first conclusions on the implementation of Ukraine's Association Agreement. I want to remind you that this is not just an international agreement, and this is a symbol of change that gives us a trampleline for all four freedoms, for the integration of Ukraine, for all four freedoms of the European Union: freedom of movement of people, freedom of movement of capital, goods and services. The Ukrainian people, and certainly many of you, have fought very seriously to ensure that we have the opportunity to do so. And so I would really like to emphasize that the purpose of the agreement is to discover the four freedoms noted. But this is all expressed in a document that has more than 3,000 pages, more than 300 acts of the European Union, acts of European Union law that we have to implement in more than 25 areas of law relations. The deal with Ukraine is precisely the largest of all similar agreements ever signed by the European Union. At the same time, this is both a challenge and a serious platform for opportunities for Ukraine to enter the markets of the European Union, for our internal service enhancement through harmonization of appropriate standards, for improving the quality of goods and for creating a healthy competitive environment. On 1 November 2016, two years have passed since the provisional application of the Association Agreement, and the time for implementation, implementation and practice of 48 acts of EU law, i.e. 48 directives and regulations, and 2 conventions, respectively. The government, for its part, has mobilized as much of its resources as possible to meet these obligations. And we hope that we will be able, together with your help, to present our progress in December of this year at the next meeting of the Association Council of Ukraine, the EU. By the first decade of October, the Government plans to consider, approve and refer to the Supreme Council additional necessary legal and regulatory acts aimed at fulfilling its obligations to bring Ukraine and the EU closer to the requirements of association. But at the same time, I would like to point out that we can note with concern that much of the Euro-integration projects, legislative acts are under consideration in the Supreme Council. Right now, there are 56 bills in the Supreme Council that would guarantee us to fulfil our obligations and to bring us closer to the law of the European Union. In the coming days, I intend to address the Head of the Supreme Council with an official letter setting out a clear list of legislative acts to be adopted before the two-year deadline for implementation and application of the agreement. We have initiated a regular sectoral dialogue from the Deputy Prime Minister of the European and Euro-Atlantic integration Office with deputy ministers on European integration in the implementation of the agreement. A meeting was held yesterday, literally, in such a format. And one of the assignments given to deputy ministers is to ensure maximum interaction with the Supreme Council, with the Supreme Council's professional committees, in order to promote appropriate legislation. I also ask, I call on the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council to a constructive dialogue and to look for real solutions. We would particularly like to consult the Committees of the Supreme Council on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, health care, and transport. These committees have a major part of the relevant legislative acts, which are important for us to adopt by November 1, 2016. I sincerely welcome all of us with yesterday's approval of the Ukrainian National Commission on Regulatory in the Field of Energy and Utilities Act. And I am convinced that this is our opportunity to make European integration progress, and in addition to fulfilling international commitments, this will open the way for Ukraine to receive the next tranche of macro-financial assistance from the European Union. We are also seriously counting on the advocacy and promotion of relevant legislative initiatives and on the part of the Committee of the Supreme Council of European Integration. At present, there was an urgent need for a clear regulation of the interaction between Parliament and government in the context of the implementation of the agreement. On the part of the government, we have taken a number of steps in this direction to ensure the system of work for the implementation of the agreement, the inviolability of this process from sectoral reforms, the institutional capacity to monitor and control this process. The government has already decided on a substantial increase in the state of the Office from European Euro-Atlantic integration. Under my headship, a group of Euro-Integration Reforms is being formed. There is a process of developing an electronic system for monitoring the implementation of the agreement, and by the end of the year we will be able to present it to the public for consideration, for consideration by you, honourable fellow parliamentarians. This monitoring system will enable us both in the government and in the central ministries and executive authorities to monitor progress in meeting our obligations and for you and civil society will be a clear indicator of where we are now in the field of fulfilling our obligations under the Association Agreement. At the same time, many strategic issues remain open today. In particular, the issue of the parliamentary mechanism for the implementation of the agreement. So once again, I urge the European Integration Committee to bring this mechanism together as soon as possible, and, if necessary, to quickly establish appropriate legal guidelines for such work for the support of the entire Ukrainian Parliament, the entire Supreme Council. I understand that the requirements of acts of European Union law may be counterversive and uninhibited in Ukrainian practice and may not be entirely timely in some cases. But I am confident of the possibility of finding consensus, of finding compromises on any issue through dialogue and consultation. Deputy Ministers for European Integration and the Office for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration are the institutional resource that can provide expert support in terms of EU law in the process of the Supreme Council's consideration of draft legislative acts. So in dialogue with our partners. Let me remind you that we are in dialogue with our partners. And I'll remind you that together we represent Ukraine, not individual organs or individual political powers. So we are convinced that by mobilizing joint efforts, we can achieve serious and showy results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u5	Thank you, Madam Vice Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, please prepare, we are about to start asking questions for the government. I'm asking you to take the seats of deputies. Dear colleagues, please. I see everyone already wants to sign up for a question, along with their jobs. Please sign up for a question to our respected government. The MPs who are near the cabinet, I'm asking you, not in the individual order, to sign up for questions, but to return to your jobs. Please, Mrs. Kocheljeva of the Radical Party. Your question. Oleg Láško gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! On September 20th, Balchun, the head of the Railroads, made a statement that the queue was going to raise tariffs for rail transport. I would like to remind you that twice during the last year, rail freight tariffs have been raised twice. At the same time, we know that the Mini-Infrastructure has issued an order that almost 50 percent of the reduction in transit cargo, including for Russians. I have a question. Why do tariffs on freight freight transport lift and lower tariffs for the Russians? Why does a national producer discriminate against transistors? In addition, we need to understand that any increase in tariffs will eventually go to consumer spending to increase prices. I'm asking you to get your hands off the nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u7	Dear Oleg Valeriovich, thank you for your question. As far as the national manufacturer is concerned. I want to emphasize that it is extremely important for the government to create a completely normal competitive environment in which a national producer that forms a national product had the opportunity to do so in the internal market and in the external markets. So today we're working to form a completely correct approach to not only the shipping tariffs for the national railway manufacturer, but also the port congregations, and the rent payments. We have to look across all the spheres of the economy where we are today in terms of our competitors in the world. Recently, I had a meeting with Ukrainian metallurgists. You know, there are issues that need to be resolved at the level of government and maybe at the level of parliament, and we're going to go to Parliament to create normal conditions: and the pay for transportation, the tariff for rail transport, and port congregations, and the rent payments, and the possibility of independent supply of energy resources to producers. All these questions will enable the national manufacturer to become competitive. So this is one of our priorities. I think we're about to make the right decisions. As far as transit payments are concerned, I agree that we need to look at how we now look at other countries, but certainly, to give advantage, any advantage for the aggressor country is unacceptable. I'll give the word to the Minister of Infrastructure, he'll comment on the Ministry's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u8	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich gives the word Shurma. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I wanted to brief you on the fact that the only task that Mr. Balchun faces as head of the Crucifixions is to cleanse you of corruption and the effectiveness of the work of the Crucifixion. It's not exactly about raising tariffs, I think it was just the difficulty of translation actually. In a situation with a 50-percent discount at the port hall. Ukraine is now extremely uncompetitive. Every year we lose traffic by 50 percent or more. That's why the government made a decision last year, and this year it continued to set a 50-percent discount on transit for all, in order to return investment to the infrastructure sector of Ukraine. Ukraine is now taking a series of steps along the Silk Road towards the transit of EU cargo from China to the Gulf countries. Without a competitive price, there's nothing we can do. At the same time, in order to protect the national producer, we are working together with the International Finance Corporation and the World Bank to develop a new method of charging port tariffs and assemblies so that Ukrainian ports are competitive at the Black Sea Basin. This predicts a constant level or less. So I think that by the end of the year we're settling this situation, and no interests will be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u10	Thank you. Now turn on Shurmi's question microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u11	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. I have a question for Vladimir Borisovich. At a previous meeting, you were surprised to learn that there are no full - scale medications available in Ukraine to treat patients in 2015. It ends in 2016, Vladimir Borisovich, there is no cure in full volume. But that's not what I'm talking about. You gave the commission, which indicates that you didn't know to fix the situation. Today's reaction is zero. And here's my question. Did you know that no drugs were purchased for 2016? The year ends and the drugs are not bought. I'm not saying that we should be ready by 2017. I have a request for you. Give the Ministry’s next commission to correct the situation, but at the same time, give the appropriate services, the forces, and see who is to blame for undermining national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u12	Thank you so much for your question. I would like to emphasize that the issue of drug purchase is one of our priorities. In fact, last week, we were able to unlock the supply of drugs for those with cancer, and this process began to deliver these drugs. As for the settlement of the issue of the purchase of these drugs, you know there are a number of Kabminu regulations that we have adopted, including quite recently, to unlock this process. Yes, there was a backlog of purchases in 2015. Our task today is to implement the purchase plan for this year and to invest the necessary resources for the next year. I want to emphasize that these are priorities for the government, as reflected in the drafts of the State Budget Act 2017, the purchase of medicines for 5.9 billion dollars. This means that we're going to get closer to, including using donor funds, international organizations, to this number of 5.9 billion, hopefully parliament will support it. And through international purchases, efficient purchases that allow you to save, not finance a pharmaceutical mafia year after year, to allow you to buy more quality drugs than ever. That's why we're dealing with this. If you have practical advice on how to speed it up, please. But what I'm saying is that this question is not out of the spotlight of government and ministry. Both the ministry and the minister’s responsibilities are working hard enough today to unlock the process and provide drugs in the amounts planned for 2016. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u13	Thank you. Hire Mustafa. He's giving the word "Tetjani Ritchcock" for the speech. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Aunty Richkova. I have a question for Uljana Suprun. We have a medical academy in Dnipro. She's 23 years old and has a medical license. It has the status of an Associated UNESCO School and an experimental institute. Since September 1, 2015, there has been no agreement between the medical academy and this class. Children from October 1st will no longer learn there, children learn from the area, now they are not in hostels. This facility does not exist. I have a question: When will this treaty be signed? When, please tell me the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. We have this issue under control. We asked that we continue for a month, so that the students could begin their studies. We continued for a month so that there would be further negotiations so that the student and the university could come to a conclusion together. We can see that by the end of this month it had not been resolved again. We're going to work with them to make the plane fit for its existence. It's a choice from the university, if they're going to continue to provide the premises. We're talking to them, we're talking to them, we're talking to the Dniper administration, and we're going to continue to work with them. But we can't order the university to rent them, we can only give them our advice, and we talk to them about it. We ask if we can continue negotiations for the next month to solve the problem, but we have control. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u16	Thank you. Please, Poultry Victoria Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for the Minister of Ecology regarding the activities of the National Natural Park of the Svetoslava. This park is part of the area that is located in the Kinburn region, which is located in the area of Ochakov and Berezan regions of the Mikolai region. It's an absolutely unique park with its flora and fauna that was created seven years ago. Sadly, though, this park’s management has not been able to determine its clear limits. As a result, the park’s territory is gradually becoming engrossed in the individual assets that will accommodate its judges, prosecutors, and national deputies. I have a picture from the cadastral map, where you can see that even the area here is already divided into the corresponding pieces of land. So I'm asking the Minister of Ecology to solve this situation, finally to set the boundaries of this national park. And I would like you to consider this a question of my own and to inform me of the execution of the MP's request and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. In fact, there is a very important problem, unfortunately not only in this park, and the root of this problem is, unfortunately, in legislation. The problem is in many parks, and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is doing so. During this summer, I made several trips to Carpathian, where I was dealing with the question of setting the boundaries of the Carpathian parks. Regrettably, this has been the case when local government authorities issue land to others during the land - management process. And after all the cycles of agreement, we have to go to the second circle. So I would very much ask you to be a member of Parliament, along with the ministry experts, to join in the work on the change of legislation that we are currently leading and to present to Parliament together a law that would guarantee, when the boundaries of national parks are passed, that these areas be reserved, and local self-government authorities in adjacent adjacent territories could not issue land to other legal or physical persons. This would allow us to preserve national parks. Not just the one you're talking about, but everyone. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u19	Thank you. Bereza Borislav gives the word to Bogdan. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u20	Good afternoon. Vladimir Borisovich, this is a reference to you and the Minister of Ecology. Bogdan, Fatherland faction, 151 District, chosen from Poltavian. The question is as follows. You, as Prime Minister, have a question about the Governor's activities or the Governor's inaction on two issues. To the Minister of Ecology from the same issues, only professional ones. Two areas of Saints and Billica. In Sench, oil and gas are produced, and in Biliika, the pig complex. There's a catastrophic environmental situation. The people who are now standing under the walls of the Supreme Council, this is the part of the people who are delegated here who want us to listen to their problems. I'm asking you very much, even when you were inspecting the roads, there was a lack of Governor Poltavščina, so please pay attention to this. And it may have to do with his sabotaging in connection with his being.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. Please make it more clear what the problem is and I will give the order to the relevant minister or vice-premier in cooperation with you and the governor. with the head of administration to determine what we can do, how to help people. Do you have a deal? I promise you, the only thing we're going to do with you is look at the situation in the open. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u22	Thank you. Billowol's giving the word to Victor Sappchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! I have a question for Minister of Sport Zhdanov Igor Aleksandrovich. And the question is probably no longer as a national MP, but as the President of the Federation of synchronous navigation of Ukraine. We've all seen our girls perform in the Olympics and before the victory, there's not enough on the 200-point scale. And the simple question, I understand, is that all the fans got their prizes, and I'd like to hear from you, Igor Alexandrovich, that these are our athletes, who are also the heroes of this Olympics, who have taken fourth place, who would like to hear and will they be noted? Believe me, you and I understand that synchronized navigation is a subjective sport, and much depends on different subjective reasons. I just want to say that we've been going to this fourth place for almost 20 years. That's why I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Indeed, we have many athletes who performed at the Olympics, taking fourth, fifth, sixth places. They stopped literally by step toward the Olympic prizes, including in synchronized navigation. And really, as President of the Federation, you're very grateful that you're supporting this kind of sport in Ukraine, and you're developing it. And, really, well, I'm grateful, including the synchronists, for their performance. We saw them convicted, we pulled out the Japanese twice. The Ministry has prepared an appropriate Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the award and payment of small prizes to those athletes who took fourth to sixth place. Now it's in the interest of the executive branch. I think that's how we're going to mark our athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Meparishvili Hvich Nodarovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u26	Good afternoon. I give the floor to Mr. Sumar. Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u27	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, here's a question from the People's Front. You know that the previous government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk has arrested one and a half billion of former President Viktor Yanukovic's funds. These funds are obviously received in a corrupt way, and these funds are obviously not proven, there, by no declaration of Yanukovich and his family. This is a fairly serious amount -- about 40 billion dollars, which our faction offers very clearly and specifically to transfer to the state budget of Ukraine, so that the government of Ukraine can clearly allocate them to the needs of the army, as well as to social costs. But today we do not see any special efforts by the government, forgive me, nor do we have any special efforts in this room to ensure that the money stolen by Yanukovich is finally able to work for the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people. Instead, we hear about some corruptogenic risks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u28	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u29	It's like one way or another, someone's going to steal something like that. Do you see in that draft of the Law that was failed yesterday to bring it into the order of the day, the corruption risks, and what? Please tell me. Or should I?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u30	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u31	Does the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people need these costs? And give a political assessment of why the Supreme Council of Ukraine today is holding this issue back. There are corruption risks, very clearly point to them, or it is the lobbying of Yanukovich’s interests in bringing this money back to his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u32	Victoria Petrovna, thank you for your question. I would just like to say that the government and I have expressed our position on a number of occasions about the funds that have been stolen from the Ukrainian people of the amount of 1.5 billion dollars. I would like to point out that the government has made its position absolutely clear by voting and by introducing the draft Law on Special Seizure in the Walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, we did so on Tuesday. I think that not being included in the agenda is a question that can be corrected completely peacefully. I turn to the Ukrainian Parliament to ensure that this law is put into the agenda and voted to ensure that the funds that have been stolen from the Ukrainian people are returned to the national budget. Moreover, the government is in no way able to manage these resources alone, these funds will be publicly accounted for by the state, and then the Ukrainian Parliament will decide on priority. The government expressed its position, and I also said that the development of the national economy, both security and defence, and social standards are at the top of the use of these resources that belong to the Ukrainian people. So I think that corruption risks are exactly where they say that they don't adopt this law. We need to get these resources back, do it in a legislative way, do it in accordance with the practice of European countries, and I don't see any violations in that we've introduced a bill. I'd like to ask the national MPs of Ukraine, get together, hold a working meeting, find some compromising things that will allow justice to be restored. I think it's a priority number one. So I would very much ask everyone to work on this issue in order for the next plenary week, either Tuesday or Thursday, to finally vote on this law and allow the law enforcement system to restore justice to the Ukrainian people. Thank you. And the government has supported and will support this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u33	Thank you. Shipko Andri Fedorovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u34	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Nicopolsk district, Pokrov Dear Vladimir Borisovich, a question to you. Because of the high tariffs and low levels of payability, the weariness of heat networks, the low quality of services in small cities, people are widely converted to individual heating. And I'll give you an example. The city of Pochrov, 42,000 people. More than 70 percent have already switched to individual heating. There are 4,800 rooms left to rebuild. Of these, 2,700 are the ATOs, the Chernobyls and the low-income population, the multi-child families, the disabled. And these citizens need the support of the state. Local budgets don't have that kind of money. If the government does not make a free decision now, more than 3,000 people will remain frozen in their homes in the winter. I have raised this question before Deputy Prime Minister Zubko, but no steps have been taken. They recommend that people take credit. What kind of loans can small - scale groups borrow? Vladimir Borisovich, take a personal question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u35	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u36	Vladimir Borisovich, you are the person responsible, and take this matter under personal control. Otherwise, 3,000 residents will freeze to death in small towns. And this is not only the problem of the city of Cover, but also the problem of other small cities in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. I'll work on that question, I'll answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u39	I'm handing Krivenk over to Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u40	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Prime Minister, a few questions. First of all, it's the Southman. And our entire budget committee has asked you, over the week, to identify a source to support this plant so that we don't lose it, to energy resources and to pay for it. We respect the work of miners. But we're also asking that we don't lose the space shuttle. Law 5030. The second question. Please create an anti-rider group. Because we admire the land, the village of Kodaka, people came to the Supreme Council. Businesses are enthralled. Yesterday, a company was seized in Dniper. Under your headship. There are such problems in Barbras. Third. Uzin, airport. For seven years, the Holden Foundation has not handed over the Uzin Airport. I've been there. It's a mess. There are investors who are willing to invest over a billion dollars. They won the contest. 70 courts, seven years of not signing a document, and we're just losing the ability to make a normal hab there. And the last. I'm asking the chairman to add five seconds. This is ABBY.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u41	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u42	ABBYY Ukraine, 200 aitists we've been cheating on for three years. We've been asked to make a software complex without money, and three years, as we don't foresee paying this debt. We agreed to hold a meeting with the finance minister today. Requesting your mission to the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance to find mechanisms, because we're losing face. And this is the support of our IT sector. Thank you. Your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u43	Thank you. On the first question. We've actually raised, disturbed this issue, and the First Vice Prime Minister is working today. I do not fully support the approach when one single law is required to support one single enterprise. We need to find a systemic solution so that we do not have to adopt laws in every enterprise. And that's a very important question. So I think we can work together on steps that will allow us to understand the real state of affairs and what to do next. As far as anti-reriding is concerned. The Cabin does it all the time, the government. And now the minister of justice is going to inform us of those, even recent decisions that we have made about effectively fighting the raids. I think it's the same banditry I was talking about. When I was on one of the TV channels, the change in the village council, the head of the village council, it's happening, there's a decision of the village council to choose a secretary for another person and so on. Athletics come and start acting like savages, we understand, but the aunts who try to capture things there are totally unacceptable. I think here the National Police and the entire force unit have to react very quickly and qualitatively. I think they need to understand that breaking the law is very painful, painful, because the law enforcement system is very serious about this. I said that athletes should be involved in sports, not going back to the wild '90s, where they can enjoy things like that and things like that. So our task today is to include you in increasing responsibility for certain offences that will enable the law enforcement system to react very quickly. And then there's the accumulation of people, the takeover of businesses or other things. I went to capture the enterprise, right into prison, that one side, the other side, and then only the law enforcement system would be effective. I just don't see any other way. Your support will be required. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Semenchenko Semin Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u45	Andrew Volodymyrovich, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius, may I comment on the anti-rider law?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u46	Please finish your answer and then I'll pass it on to Semenchenkov. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u47	Respectable national MPs, indeed, have been a problem in Ukraine for 20 years. During the summer, MPs and experts worked together with the Ministry of Justice and the government on a package of laws, which is 5067, which provides for the introduction of a real responsibility for logging. Vladimir Borisovich, right now, said that athletes and unclean people are using their businesses for their own good because they don't have a normal responsibility. And the National Police actually see it as just as hooliganism according to legislation. We suggest introducing a strict criminal responsibility and confiscation of all property of all persons who will be involved in the raid. This bill is already in Parliament. And as far as we know, some forces and raiders have already been activated to make sure he doesn't get into the session room. I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council on a case-by-case basis, and I ask you to submit this bill for the next sessional week. The law on special confiscation, because we see it in both this and the other bill, is a fierce opposition to those forces that want everything to stay the same and to work the old schemes, and to vote it out in general and to close these possibilities for the proper raiders and bandits. What we do for ourselves. Since the beginning of the year alone, the Ukrainian government has not allowed the raiders to steal 100 billion of our assets. We've closed off the possibility of using fictitious court decisions to register business and re-register business. But without the real criminal responsibility of all figures in such matters, we will not be able to overcome it completely. So I ask everyone to vote for the next sessional week in two laws: the Confiscation Act and the Anti-Rerider Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Semenchenko Semen Igorovich. That'll be the last question. And then Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u49	I give the word to Alane Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u50	Vladimir Borisovich, the Self-Help Federation faction today gave you a message about the factors behind the financial crisis in the field of heat and measures to overcome it. We really expect the government to be ready to respond to this call because we are at risk of starting a heating season, and we need an immediate budget decision. What do you mean? By October 1st, heat companies had to make two contracts: supply of gas for the population and supply of gas for budgetary organizations. For budgetary organizations, the price of 700 dollars is higher today than for the population. It doesn't work, and it's a system that's said to be the only price that works. Budget organizations in the heat energy sector are not provided by the NCRECR in terms of heat tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u51	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u52	The thing is, businesses can't make such a deal knowing that they're going to lose money from every gigacular of the budget they sell. The population is also facing a huge problem with fines for benefits and subsidies. Vladimir Borisovich, "The Self-Help Union is ready to work with all your government to resolve these issues because there will be financial difficulties on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u53	Thank you. Thank you for asking. We're working on this issue and preparing for the winter, and I'd like everyone to hear me right now, and today there's no objective cause for a break in the heating season. And in preparation for the hot season, cities, heads of administration, are responsible. And if someone isn't able to prepare in a good and timely manner, regardless of the problems that are their cities or areas, or the area of the heating season, he'll just be punished for it. Because there are no objective reasons for not preparing. And you don't have to cheat on problems, there are problems that need to be solved, but I don't think you need to talk about what's going to be the break of the hot season. We know about problems that aren't born today that are chronically a problem of the entire complex of municipal heat. And now we're working on this to solve these issues systematically. The support of the deputy corps will also be needed. To create a system that will not allow the debt of utilities, on the other hand, to increase their responsibility for the calculation, because. There's a question today about getting payments from the population, about the cost estimates. And we know that, and we can prove it. As for their work on modernization and overtime, which they should eventually do the midterm program and stop the leaks and keep the air warm and so on. So this is a set of questions. The government is absolutely open, we will work with all factions, with your faction, with you personally, to solve the issue. As far as the only price is concerned. I'm talking about the only price for the population, not the benefits of some billions of dollars, not a variety of people's prices, and then selling to commercial organizations. This is the impeccable question that we have resolved. As far as benefits and subsidies are concerned, they will be implemented in a timely manner, and there will be no problems for all, and there will be no problems. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for questions is up. Now. Literally, 30 seconds, please, Matvienkov. 30 seconds, last question and then Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u55	Thank you. Matvienkov, 57 district. I have a question for the Ministry of Social Policy. On 24 June this year, regulation 461, which removed a number of professions from the list number one, including repairers of the steel industry, repairers of the mining and metallurgical complex. First situation. Why, if they did it, why would they do it like that? Today, people who have worked their whole lives have come to form their own pensions, and they just send them out of there. They spread these actions to the newly adopted so-called " work ", this is the first part of the issue. And the second question. What money did you find on account of the fact that there is no money in the Pension Fund if the list number one and the list number two has been paid by the employer since 2012. It conducts job appraisals. It's the employer's money. Who are we lying to, I don't understand, are you reporting to, who are you reporting to, the International Monetary Fund? On such serious jobs, where people worked, breathing into a gorilla, you left them virtually unfavourable. This is an abnormal phenomenon that could lead to a social explosion. Vladimir Borisovich, I urge you, as Prime Minister, to intervene in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u56	Thank you. And a word, please, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u57	The Honourable People’s Deputies of Matvienkov, in fact, pay the Pension Fund for their early retirement. To date, the total debt owed to the Pension Fund by those who have retired for a period of time amounts to 8 billion dollars. And this really creates serious problems, including for the Pension Fund. Regarding the changes to lists of one and two, they were adopted in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. And I can't accept that they were criminalized. If you have a different position, you can contact the law enforcement authorities. Position number three. Many specialties were removed from these lists. And under the terms of retirement, persons who work at least 80 percent of their working hours are entitled to early retirement. I can't understand how the director of the mine or other managers who were on this list were fulfilling this condition. Yes, there may be certain faults and faults that you are talking about. And today, the Federation and I are setting up a working group to study the situation in order to correct the mistakes that have been made. But if you are willing to join in this work, we invite you and are willing to listen to your suggestions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u58	And the final question, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina. Please, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u59	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. I have a question for the Vice Prime Minister on European Euro-Atlantic integration. Yesterday, information came from the Netherlands that the Dutch Parliament had accepted a request to the Government of the Netherlands by November 1st to determine the position of the Dutch Government and this country on the referendum on the ratification of the Association Agreement of Ukraine-EU despite the fact that this referendum was of a recommendational nature. And we have also heard statements from the prime minister of this country that will take into account his results. What is the position and tactics of the government of Ukraine regarding the fact that we demand the full ratification of the referendum of the association on. An association agreement, full ratification and no change, not taking into account the results of the referendum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. Really. First of all, I would like to say that I am sorry to hear the Prime Minister's position yesterday, which means that the Government of the Netherlands is not at present ready to take responsibility for its previous decision, which was taken in July 2015 with the Parliament of the Netherlands, when the fully ratified procedures in the Netherlands regarding the Association Agreement were completed. And now it's taking into account the advisory referendum, and it's essentially taken into account the 20 percent of the population in the Netherlands that are now influencing Ukraine's ability to become a hostage to such a vote by Dutch citizens. We continue to work with all the member countries of the European Union, with the leadership of all the member countries of the European Union. Regarding what we find unacceptable in this position of the Netherlands, and we believe that we need to be ratified by the Netherlands, perhaps with a specific view to the fact that bilateral norms that apply only exclusively to individual countries in the Association Agreement, individual member countries, may not be applied by the Netherlands. But, in fact, it is in the interests of both the Ukrainian people and the Dutch people -- the ratification of this Association Agreement. So let's keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank you for the discussion and for participating in the meeting of the government and the Prime Minister personally and give him the final word. Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u62	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. Head. Dear fellow national MPs, I want to thank you for your questions. We've got them all fixed up, we're taking them to work. And all that can be resolved quickly will surely be done. Thank you very much, and I wish you success. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u63	Thank you. Good luck, fruitful work. And we've got a request from two factions: The Radical Party, Self-Help, is about calling a break, but they're willing to replace it with a tribune. And I invite you to Victor Halasyuk's word. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, may I have your attention? An extremely important question. It's just shocking information. Today, in Ukraine, 478,000 people with disabilities are in group I, II, and III. Pensioners who do not have a proper working period, women who have retired early in life now live on pensions and social assistance for fewer than a thousand dollars. With an official subsistence rate of $130 today, and the real subsistence minimum, according to the Minsocpolytica, is 2 000,269. What's more, Vladimir Borisovich, there's no index for these people today. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers, the past Cabinet of Ministers, has set a fixed amount of $949. How can a person in Ukraine live for 949 dollars? The faction of the Radical Party therefore insists on the immediate adoption of Bill 4998: the protection of the constitutional rights of the community, the provision of minimum, at least life’s needs. And we ask the government to accept amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Order, to re-index the corresponding social minimum incomes of citizens. To do so, of course, we need additional budget funding. We want to see if it is already foreseen. If not, it must be done urgently, since there can be no discussion or constitutional obligations of the State to people with disabilities, to pensioners, to women who had retired earlier because they could not find a job. In order for the funds to be in the budget, we have proposed specific industrial bills: export credit agencies, industrial parks, the development of woodworking, the development of metallurgy. There is an income base, but there can be no discussion whether to solve this problem or not. So from the Radical Party faction, I'm asking you, with a proposal, to urgently address this issue. We in Parliament will do what is up to us. We also propose that social bills be adopted without delay, which require minimal funding, but will enable older people to live more or less normal lives: free medical supplies, basic elderly citizens (4491), 4329 free annual examinations of elderly medical citizens. These are in comparison to the fact that the budget is based on articles that can be saved can be optimized. The budget has two functions: the economic development function of the country and the social protection function of the population. This is the fundamental position of the Radical Party faction. Please hear me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u65	Thank you. We can't stop the discussion. And I give the floor to Vladimir Borisovich Groissman. Please. On the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. I would like to state with full responsibility that the issue of raising social standards, as well as the development of the national economy, which will enable these standards to be raised, is a key priority for government action. We have, on a large scale, two tasks: to ensure economic growth and this economic growth to invest in the quality of life of Ukrainians. I agree that 949 bracelets is a completely low amount, not today, not yesterday, not yesterday. But I would like to emphasize that it's very important not only to write laws, but it's very important to do socio-economic accounting and in such laws to account for the source, that's the amount of money that it takes to make these payments, then it's going to make us different from the populists and make us really statesmen who offer not just empty words, but decisions, decisions that will make it possible. So one more time. The issue of raising social standards, minimum wages and wages in general is our priority. In the 2017 budget, we saw this increase coming. As far as social standards are concerned, we've predicted 10 percent, and I understand that this is not enough right now, but we have this ratio to the growth of the national economy, on the other hand, we've defined the prioritization of investment in infrastructure development and the national economy, and on the other hand, we've set a priority -- the wage of a teacher, a doctor, and the supply of Ukrainian drugs. And we will certainly find solutions and propose to the Ukrainian Parliament about these minimum social standards that have been discussed. So I would very much like you to do your job, make a decision about the confiscation. 40 billion, we can take it and do it right now. Make decisions that will allow us to fill the budget without increasing the pressure on the Ukrainian business, and we will have sources, and we will do so. No questions. I would ask the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please, when national MPs make proposals by law, especially social nature, but you understand that you sometimes submit, I don't say this to Mr. Halasyuk, it doesn't apply, you understand that there are national MPs who make laws that don't have any accounting, I can write 100 laws on the day that they give everything and it's going to cost hundreds of billions. I call for a responsible position here. There's a law, there's a calculation, written: from which we take the source, into that direction. Then it's our policy with you, and everything else is a waste of speech. Then I have a request for Parliament's leadership. When such laws arrive, please, as stipulated in the Rules, let the national MP do all the calculations, show the source of the repayment, and then we will understand. Before you went on a break in your work there was a number of "social initiatives" called (in paws) for 59 additional billion dollars. So I have a question: where do I get this 59 billion in the budget? And in this law, no words were said about it, no payoffs. And you know, I'd like us to be absolutely responsible. With regard to the Law on the Purchase of Medicines. In the near future, the government will adopt all the necessary decisions that will allow for the provision of a system of public, open-ended reimbursation as of 1 January 2017. It's about providing prescription drugs for free, at minimum prices, for generics at the moment. And we've been implementing a real reference pricing system since January 1st. What's the point? The fact that the drugs in 3, 5, 7 countries around Ukraine will be, they are cheaper today. So we're going to tie our prices in the middle of the country to prices in these countries, and we're going to get a reference for an active substance that's going to make it possible to lower prices for drugs, and that's what we're going to do. I understand that we will be opposed especially by those who make money on these things, but we don't care. We do our job, and people will feel that the situation is changing. Thank you and ask for a responsible politician. Goodbye, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u67	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council’s regulations, we have 30 minutes on Friday to announce the parliamentary requests. A great number of them have accumulated. And I invite you to read out the parliamentary questions to the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u68	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, we have 268 requests registered today. I hope I can read them all. But first, a request from the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri-Goddan Shuhevich, who needs your support and the vote, so please don't disagree. And I'll be right back. This request to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the "publishment is not subject to" and for the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former people's deputies of the U.S.R. and the Soviet Union, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company's committees, etc., and members of their families, who calculate pensions on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and for the termination of the payment of pensions to these persons. I am now voting in favour of this request. Please vote. [[11:18:59]] For-92 92 people's deputies. Regrettably, there are no votes needed to correct this request. And I'm moving on to reading other questions from the people's deputies to other authorities. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, temporarily acting as head of the Žitomir District Administration for the repair of the Greenwich-Loubar Road and the opening of the bus route from Lubar District Center to the village of Ljubarski district, Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the purpose of providing funds for the acquisition of synthetic coverage for a sports course in the territory of the Pechanov Public Education School I-III, took the Romanov region, the Zitomir region. Oksana Jurinec to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need for funds to be allocated for the renovation of the National Academy of Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre Maria Zankovetskie. Oksana Jurinec until the temporary duty of Ukrainian Minister of Health to vaccinate the population in Ukraine. Eugene Balitsky to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Board of Directors, Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the involvement in the violation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine (Separatism) of the Melitopol City Head and the failure of the court by individual officials of the Melitopol City Council of Zaporez Region. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the change of the founders of the private agricultural enterprise Dimitrov in the village of Dobro and the rural farm "Roxana" in the village of Buznikuwat district of Kirovgrad. Michael Gavriluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the critical condition of the Kyiv-Svetoshin district council's solid waste site, and the possible boycott of the Euroworking 2017 by the Kiev public. Igora Artushenka to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the signs of disciplinary misconduct in the actions of the judge of the Tokyo District Court of Zaporozhye District of Hawaii. Tetjana Ritchkowa to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the provision of students and lecturers at the Tavrian National University of the name of Vernadsky, which has resumed its activities in Kiev, educational facilities and accommodations. Igor Shurma to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the need to investigate persons responsible for sabotage and the delay in public procurement of drugs and medical supplies for the 16th year. Igor Shurma to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the activities of the Center for Medical Innovation "NOVO" in Lviv, to meet the requirements of legislation. Sergija Matvienkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return to the list of productions, occupations, credit-retirement posts under Schedule No 1, repair services that repair equipment and equipment in black metallurgy enterprises. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Henprocuror of Ukraine on the illegal activities of the Investment and Accounting Centre in the financial services market, the fraud and the seizure of investors for the patronage of the Bank of Mikhail, the non-use by law enforcement authorities and the National Bank of Ukraine of measures to halt such actions, and the protection of citizens' rights. John Melniczuk to the minister of health regarding to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of adequate treatment for a citizen named Peter Polishchuk. Ivan Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens for social protection. Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the provision of copies of documents to the list of means of transport submitted to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine for the recognition of means of transport by humanitarian aid during 2015 and the first half of 2016. Igora Lucenka, acting director of Ukraine’s Ministry of Interior Service’s Department of Internal Affairs Service, is responsible for providing information on the state registration of means of transport recognized by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine as humanitarian aid during 2015 and the first half of 2016. Mikhail Gavriluk, head of Kiev-Svetoshin District State Administration of the Kyiv Region, for the provision of copies of documents from Kiev-Svetoshin State Administration for the private transfer of some land. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister for Temporaryly Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, to the head of the Luhansk Regional Civil Administration, the Donetsk Regional Civil and Civil Administration for the use and mechanisms of public control of the local budgets of the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, where the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their powers. Sergia Dunayeva to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Prosecutor of the Luhansk Region, Head of the Directorate of BSC in the Luhansk region, on the critical situation in the municipal company Lysicánskvodokal of the Luhansk region. Sergia Dunayeva to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, on the restoration of energy supply to the municipal company Lysicánsktéplěrzeża, Lugansk region, on the eve of the heating season. Igora Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for amendments to Cabinet Order No.461 of 24 June 2016 on the approval of lists of production, work, occupations, posts and indicators in which employment grants the right to retirement age on extended terms. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-derogation of district councils in the area of permits for drug use. Andrija Derkača to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of the "Kralevec" stop on the 061/062 train route "Mikolayev-Moscow". Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need to finance the Wessel public education school. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Emergency Situations, Head of the Lviv District Public Administration, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in the Lviv Region for the urgent establishment of an environmental commission to study the environmental situation of the West Bug Basin, the causes of pollution and the solution to the question of bringing the state of the West Bug basin into line with sanitary standards. Groups of National Deputies (Bondara, One and Others, only 9 deputies) to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, the Head of the State Service of Ukraine from extraordinary situations, the Head of the Lviv District State Administration, the President of the Corporation of the Lvivinvestbud Construction Corporation for immediate action by the local and foreign professionals to investigate and study the problem of land displacement under the Podgoreck Monastery of the Bródija District of Lviv Region and solve the issue in the shortest terms. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the payment of the pension to children of war. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to solve the problem of sending citizens a grant notice. Taras Shepherd to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the transfer to the municipal property of the city of Ternopol, the famous Ukrainian Ministry of Defence guesthouse, located at the address of Ternopil Street Lozowiecka, 34. Vasil Janicky to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the state notary office in the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Central Electoral Commission for the promotion of State policy in the field of territorial governance. Maxim Chicken to the Attorney General of Ukraine about not giving an answer. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the settlement of the debt and the conflict around the Society with limited responsibility for the Bilogira of Milk Products. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of violating the right to a pension for workers working on harmful production. Oleg Musia to the SBU, U.S. Attorney General's Office for the genocide of the Ukrainian population in the occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk areas of Ukraine, carried out by the regime of Zaharchenka-Plotnicko-Putin. Andrija Shipka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKK for the avoidance of the disaster of colds in the city of Roof of Dnipropetrovsk. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrov District Council on the solution of the issue of the establishment of the Dnipropetrov Regional Education Institute, Dnipro International. Mikoli Skorka to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Henprosecutor of Ukraine, for the investigation of the death of people in the House of Trades on May 2, 2014 in Odessa. Jurya Boyka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian President's Administration for the violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian State Service Act by the head of the Romanian Regional Administration of the Žitomir Region. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the construction of the Central Nuclear Fuel Repository ( CSWAP. Groups of National Deputies (Kolesnikova, Pavlova, Galchenka) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, the Head of the State Service of Ukraine, with exceptional circumstances in the Dnipropetrov region, concerning possible misconduct by the leadership of the Chief Administration of DNS Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the deputies of the Suma District Council and the Suma City Council on the establishment of economically sound tariffs for the population. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent resolution of the issue of the functioning of the State boarding-wing with the enhanced military-physical training of the Cadet Corps in Suma. Victor Halasyuk to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on the conditions for receiving the second tranche of EU micro-financial assistance. Groups of National Deputies (Brichenka, Kremina, Medunice) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of State revenue losses over 700 million This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Because of the early sale of sugar sand. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving the condition of rail freight. Vassila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal of obstacles to the unification of the territorial communities. Leonidas Hamtsa, head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for gross violation by the owner of non-residential premises: the city of Kyiv, the street of John Kudri, 20-B of the standards of effective legislation of Ukraine and the inaction of officials of local self-government and the State Architectural Building Inspectorate of Ukraine in the protection of the housing rights of residents of the house. Igor Guza to the Attorney-General of Ukraine to monitor the investigation of possible illegal actions in the execution of the treaty in the framework of State procurement of mine-building equipment in the Volin region. Andrija Lopushanski to the deputy head of the Lviv district administration, the head of the apparatus, the Sambir city head of the Lviv region, for the creation of the proper conditions for the operation of the historic ethnographic museum "Boykushina" in Sambori district of Lviv. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing projects and for the construction of border road infrastructure, for setting up border crossing points for the Ukrainian-Polish border for loans to the Government of Poland under conditions of related assistance. Sergia Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate publication of the Memorandum of Cooperation between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund to inform Ukrainian citizens of the secret arrangements and conditions under which the Ukrainian government has agreed to obtain Ukraine's third financial assistance tranche under the Enhanced Financing Programme. Sergey Vlasenka until he was temporarily acting Head of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the provision of information. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures to maintain international quality control of road works and to ensure that Ukrainians are properly covered by the proper quality and non-target use of the funds of the state budget of Ukraine. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, on the use of measures to respond to the illegal activities of the Lukyanovska market administration, which violates Ukrainian legislation, raises unfixedly and unjustifiably the costs of trading places from entrepreneurs in the country’s state budget, and manages to have a physical hearing with regard to entrepreneurs. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has taken place in the current year with the free rehabilitation of orphans, children deprived of parental care, children with disabilities and children from low-income and multi-child families suffering from child cerebral palsy. Alexander Suprunenka to Kiev City Head for the capital repair of roads in the Darnicki district of Kyiv. Victor Vuka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on providing information on the impact of the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and Ukraine on Ukraine's economic, financial and external trade performance. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing for the reduction of the proper financing of the health facilities of the Ministry of Health in Ukraine. Olga Bogoliac to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for immediate introduction of reference prices and prices in reference countries for medical devices as one of the main steps in the reform of Ukraine’s medical system. Yuri Timoshenko, head of the city council of Johno-Frankow district for the provision of legal benefits to families of dead ATO participants. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for exceeding the authority of Mikolayevsk. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the inactivity of the National Police in the Mikolayiv region during the events of August 30, 2016 and September 15, 2016. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration, on the use of Dubrovic's Department of Land Police, which belongs to the Church, under a fine note. Alexander Abdullin to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the inadmissibility of destruction through the cessation of funding, the National Institute of "Ukraine’s Special Rapporteur on radiation protection of the population of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health". Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment of Decree No. 106 of 23 July 1991 in connection with the renaming of the Ukrainian population, provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagation of Their Symbolism. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of advance payments for the provision of natural gas to budgetary institutions. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the purchase of high-value and high-tech medical equipment and transport facilities by health facilities subordinated to district and city councils. Alexander Brigintz to the head of Montenegro’s district government regarding the status of the development of a plan to prevent water degradation. Valentina Nichiporenko Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of the execution of the rulings of the citizens of Labzi S.F. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extension of investigation into the dumping of chemicals in the village of Ohmatov, Jaskow district, Cherkas region. Alexander Briginz to the first deputy chief of the Road Service in Kiev, head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Kyiv Region on the critical state of the only road of local importance of O-101509 The Grand Boukrin - Oliveka through Piy, the Stream, the Mironovo region of the Kyiv region. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on contributing to the increase in expenditure on work for 2016 for the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on State Service in the Plain region. Sergija Eutuska to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on ensuring the implementation of article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine, in part of the State guarantee the granting of long-term credits for construction (restructuring) and the acquisition of housing for scientific and pedagogical workers and the corresponding changes to the Ukrainian State Budget project. Sergei Eutuska to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting as the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the pollution of the environment by technology wastes of the hot zinc industry of metal products of the City of Sarna, and the unconditional fulfilment of the relevant requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine articles on guaranteeing the right to free access to information on the state of the environment and the duty of the State to ensure environmental security in Ukraine. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the release by the authorities of preschool facilities for use for the purpose of ensuring the proper level of compulsory preschool education. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the replacement of energy-preservation windows in the “Prolesco” District Children's sanatorium of the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the reconstruction of the water supply system in the village of Kalinovitsa in the region of Chernigiv. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the following department of the Police Department of the Police Department of the National Police in the Kyiv region in investigating fraud during the privatisation of the land. Vladislav Golub to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, on the state of the criminal investigation into the theft of funds allocated for the acquisition of apartments for families of military personnel killed in ATO and on the criminal conduct of the looting of funds allocated for the reconstruction of clean-up facilities in the city of Zolotossa, Cherkas region. Vladislav Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Cherkas District Public Administration for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of road operations in the general use of the Cherkas region. Romana Maczola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at protecting the constitutional rights of the Hmělnica population to safety and health, and on the use of measures to eliminate environmental hazards from the garbage dump, which has long since exhausted the term of exploitation and has a negative impact on the environment and public health, as well as on the allocation of funds for the construction of a garbage treatment plant in the Hmělní region. Romana Macola is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide special medical care for children with phenylketonuria, particularly in the Hmelnicka region. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, the State Financial Inspectorate on the state of use of the State Regional Development Fund. Jacob Besbach to the Human Rights Council of Ukraine, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on ensuring the continued observance of the judicial safeguards. Alexander Dobrenkova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for damages and compensation for the value of damaged or damaged property in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of compensation for differences in the tariffs of the Commune Company "WaterGeo" of the City Council of Cherkas. Sergey Rudika to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the settlement of the issue of debt from the remuneration of civil servants of the Cherka District State Administration. Vitalia Cupria to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on illegal blocking of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine Igor Nasalikam's appointment as Head of State Enterprise "National Energy Company Ukrenergo", selected at the open competition. Vitalia Cupria to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the theft of 280 million dollars of budget in defence complex enterprises that are part of the Ucrobanprom State Concert. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a new mechanism for reimbursement of pension benefits. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for transportation costs. Alexander Vilkula to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine to ensure implementation of the separate articles of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 17 years. Hanni Hopko to the Kiev City Head on the need to break the lease agreement from T.O.A. "Avesta-Bud" that purposefully destroys the Golossievsky National Natural Park and the inaction of the Kiev City Authority, which ignores environmental requirements and persistent public resistance to the building of the green zone. Jaroslava Markevich, under the temporary responsibilities of the head of the National Police Department in Kharkivsk, to the head of the Ukrainian National Fisheries Agency for the violation of Ukrainian citizens’ rights at the Redwater Falls. Andrija Illenka is head of the Kyiv City State Administration, who is responsible for the headship of the Right District in Kiev of the State Administration for the introduction to the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for 2017 of the repair work of asphalt coating in the Lisov Living Area. Groups of National Deputies (Illenka, Glaucoma, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional terms of the 57 national deputies of Ukraine on the recognition of the unconstitutional Ukrainian Law on Principles of State Language Policy. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine regarding the provision of written information about the theatres of Ukrainian actors who participated in the Polish film "Volin". John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, head of the Regional Government Administration of the Chernobyl Region, to increase the cost of medical subsidies and its reserve to address the urgent health concerns of the Putil district of Chernivetsk. John Rybak to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenk, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, Head of the Provincial Regional Government Administration of the Montenegrin Region for Assistance to a Multi-Children Family for the Restoration of Housing, which was destroyed by fire. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of the development and approval of new legislation on health legislation in Ukraine. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State policy in the area of health sector reform in Ukraine. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association for Gas Supply and Gasification of Kiwobgaz on the gasification of the village of Ludvinka in the Bilocerkow district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the establishment of abuses by officials of the Department of State in the Kyiv region in the field of land allocations in Bilocerkowski, Volodarski, Skirski, Stavishtenski, Tarastian and Tetian areas to participants in the antiterrorist operation. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the granting of State aid for the development of socio-economic infrastructure for the town of Vinniki Lvivsk. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv Regional Public Administration for the provision of adequate funding and the operation of the Lviv Regional Children's Hospital OHMATDIT. Groups of National Deputies (Europe), Papiev and others A total of 8 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of a full, objective and impartial investigation into a terrorist act against the Inter Channel and its employees. Dmitry Lubinz to the National Service Agency of Ukraine for the purpose of providing a copy of the protocol of the National Agency for State Service Affairs of September 13, 16th, which gave the decision to recognize the winner of the competition for the post of head of the Walnova District State Administration, Barannik Alexander Leonidovic. Anton Kisse to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the emergence of a critical situation involving the administration of justice in individual courts in the Odessa region. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on how to apply the total income to housing subsidies to the population. Roman Semenha to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev for insufficient criminal investigation. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration, the Fastov City Head, the head of the municipal enterprise of the Fastov City Council of Fasttivovodokal, on the improper state of drinking water in the city of Fastów Kyiv Region. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, Head of the Ukrainian State Department, Kyivoblanergo District Administration for Illegal Disengagement of Residents of the City of Fastov from the Supply of Power to Kyivoblanergo. Taras Batenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, for reasons of exceeding his authority by the National Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and utilities, in part of granting permission to gas distributors of public gas counters, contrary to the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas, which will lead to an even greater impoverishment of Ukrainians. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, Military Prosecutor of the Western Region, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor for the enforcement of the current Ukrainian legislation in the construction of contracts for the purchase and sale of immovable property between the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and counterparties to secure the residence of military officials who protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine (ATO). Mikhail Golovka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil District State Administration, for the consideration of the staff of the General Bureau of Statistics in the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the capital repair of the Dubno - Ternopil road (through Kremenec). Oleg Osuhovski, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Managing Director of the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Natural Persons, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the solution of the issue of the refund of money to PAT investors "Bank Mikhailowski". Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection by the officials of the Plain City Council. Jaroslava Dubnevich to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the handover of the Battle Flag to the 12th Special Brigade of the Army Air Force. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Housing and Housing as the service residence of the military units of the Sambir garrison. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City State Administration on non-execution, was handed down by the Society with limited responsibility "BC DIAMANT HOL" in a dispute over forgetfulness at: the city of Kiev, Kruglounistska Street, 2/1. Groups of National Deputies (Opanasenka, Ostrichova, and others) A total of 19 deputies) to the finance minister of Ukraine to settle the issue of the license for the wholesale trade in alcoholic beverages for beer producers. Andrew Galchenka and Constantine Pavlov to the President-in-Office of Ukraine for the peaceful settlement of the situation in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas regarding the release from captivity of prisoners of war. Vladimir Ariev to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to purchase the Ministry of Health three - chamber cardiostimulators at the expense of the state budget. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the funds needed to solve the environmental problems in Odessa. Yurya Berezi to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the deadlines for the allocation of funds for the implementation of the KPCAC 2301360 budget programme for the treatment of citizens abroad. Ruslana Demczak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Order "On the Approval of the Order and Rules for the Conduct of Compulsory Aviation Insurance of Civil Aviation" No.1535 of 12 October 2002 in accordance with article 118 of the Ukrainian Air Code. Ruslana Demczak, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide for the diabetics of the Illinecki region with insulin. Jurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for amending the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017, registration No. 5000 of 15 September 2016 and draft Ukrainian Law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, registration No.5131 of 15 September 2016 concerning the financing of the activities of local self-government bodies, in particular the unified territorial communities. Jury Derevjanka to the prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankow district for the annulment of the Criminal Procedure Order No.12016060990000000270 of 22 July 2016 and for the continuation of the investigation into the illegal logging in the territory of the National Natural Park "Gutzulščina". Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the baseless, artificial debt in favour of the Society with limited liability for CONSALTING-GAMMA and the protection of public interest during the bankruptcy proceedings of the Public Shareholders Association of Mikolaiiv Shipbuilding Plant OCEAN. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, president of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the organization of a proper medical examination of ATO participants for hepatitis C infection and for providing them with the necessary treatment. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Social Affairs of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, the Odessa District State Administration on the need for a review and implementation of the effective response to the collective address of residents of the buildings on the avenue of Marshall Žukov, 19, 21, 23, 31, 41, 43, the Kyiv district of Odessa, in general hundreds of households, on the comprehensive area of security, infrastructure and sanitation, as well as other measures of well-being and ensuring the safety of the activities of both children and residents of the designated buildings, along the 13th railway line, and ensuring the safety of the activities of both the public and the public at the end of the project. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of the address of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Katashinsk-Oleksandra Sergiyevni on the non-derogation of the level of social security and household services in the area of the JKK and the restoration of civil rights. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the allocation of additional targeted funding to the National Agro-ecological University of Žitomir. Paul Djublik, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, for the conduct of a comprehensive inspection of the Natural Reserve of the "Drewlian" National Region of the Žitomir Region. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures to prevent the suspension of decentralization reform in the Montenegrin region. Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District Council, head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the implementation of the Plan of Action for Implementation in 2015 - 2017 of the Montenegro Region Development Strategy for 2020 on the construction of a public education school in the village of Tisovec Stóžinetsky district. Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenk, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the allocation of subsidies to non-working citizens who have lost their jobs in the current year. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Appeal of Kiev, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Director of the National Law University of Ukraine, the Director of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Director of the Lviv National University of John Frank, the Rector of the Donetsk National University, the Rector of the National University of Kiev, the Rector of the National University of Taras Shevchenk, the Rector of the National University of Odessa Legal Academy of Justice, the Head of the Appellate Tribunal of the Vinické region with regard to the desirability of amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. Groups of National Deputies (Dubnevich, Moth and others) A total of 6 honourable colleagues) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the problems of legal regulation of the order of assessment of stocks of beneficial fossils. Victor Romanyuk to the U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal payment of $100 million in VAT and the payment of bribes to Ukrainian high-prisoners for $22 million. Alexander Wilkull to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the Government Design Office of the South, regarding the opacity and selectivity of the competition to replace the leadership of the State Enterprise, the protection of the employees of the State Enterprise: several months' debt from salary, the inadmissibility of moving to a one-day working week and the mass release of employees. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of bank investors and separate branches of banks located in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of the Ukrainian State Environmental Service to the parliamentary request for verification of compliance with environmental legislation in construction work in the second quarter of the city of Browara. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development of a single approach to setting wages for ministers, national deputies of Ukraine, judges, prosecutors, police, civil servants, managers and employees of state-owned enterprises, employees of institutions and organizations financed from public or local budgets. Jury Pavlenko to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the accumulation of negative trends in the protection of children’s rights that threaten Ukraine’s national security. Jury Pavlenko to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the critical situation in the field of information security and freedom of speech in Ukraine. Yegora Soboljeva is headed by the National Architectural Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head, to stop the construction of a commercial entertainment complex at the intersection of the Obolonian Prospect and the Cherios Dnipra Street in the Obolonian district of Kiev. Mikli Kucher to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the director of TOV "Teplik-Agro" Anchenka Vasil in the Teplička district of Winnick. Yurya Bereza until he was temporarily acting as head of the National Police Directorate in Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine, for the protection of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizen Andrija Djachenko. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine 2017, part of the increase in expenditures at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and NAMU. Andrija Bielecki and Oleg Petrenko are headed by the Kiev City State Administration to take into account the interests of the territorial community in the construction work carried out in Kiev. Robert Govarta. To the Attorney General of Ukraine for the detection and opposition of criminal offences on the ground of racial, national, or religious enmity or strife. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unlocking of the supply of bronze materials for the manufacture of armored vests and bulletproof helmets by a limited-liability "TEMP-3,000" NPA and the rationale and legality of the change by the customs office of Kiev of DFS Ukraine of the classification of the goods concerned. Dear colleagues, this concludes the reading of 268 requests from Ukrainian national deputies. I'm calling a 30-minute recess according to our Rules. And it's exactly 12:30 that we're going to start with a recording of those who want to be in the "Varisne" section, because unfortunately we can't go in the daytime order where we have a bunch of drafts on the first reading today, because of the absence of colleagues. And so at 12:30, we're going to go with you to the "Variance" section. All those who wish to speak in this section are asked to return to the session hall at 12:30 sharp to sign up. I'm calling it a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I ask you to come into the session room, because in a minute we'll start recording the performances under the heading "Craze." So please, all who wish to exercise your legal right to participate in these presentations, I ask you to return to the session room. Please start recording. Thank you. Please give the floor to the representative of the Samohelp faction, Mr Sidorovich. He conveys the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u70	I've already shared with my coworkers in charge of the committees, with the leaders of the parliamentary factions, with the leadership of Parliament. We have a problem: After our summer break, our parliament stopped adopting anticorruption laws. Before that, we were young and created very demanding legislation, including the openness of officials’ declarations. I urge all the national deputies to carry it out carefully. Any lie in the declarations, any concealment will be the subject of the Agency's investigation into the prevention of corruption and the Anti-Corruption Bureau. One of the laws that we're not able to approve is the Law on the Rights of the Anti-Corruption Bureau to Hear Corruption. I don't know who in the Supreme Council is speaking out against this. But Parliament Speaker says there are no 226 votes, no people who are willing to vote to make this idea of the law. It's really important, because the Anti-Corruption Bureau, to which we've given great independence, great powers, good wages, has one problem: it can only listen to corrupt people through the Security Service. What is listening to the Security Service, I think there are a lot of people in this room who know. The biggest problem is, none of us can guarantee that the people who do this don't share information with the same corruption. I want to tell the members of Parliament about the terrible news that I learned from the initiatives of the lawyers of the Celestial 100. They suspected that the Berkuts, who were to be arrested for shooting people in Maidan, had escaped because the wife of one of them was working in a listening unit at the B.S.A. I wrote about this statement by the MP and received an answer from the then acting Head of Malikov about the fact that, indeed, this person is working, but we did not find any evidence that she could share such information. I will discuss this with the Head of the Bureau, and I ask the entire Parliament to take the courage to vote in favour of granting the Anti-Corruption Bureau the right to listen to corrupt people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Danielyn, the representative of the People's Front is invited to the floor. He's passing on the word to Guzu, isn't he? I can't hear you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, my system's broken. I'm sorry, dear colleagues. The word is given to Mr. Rosenblatt from Peter Dusty's Block. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm going to overload the computer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear fellows! My speech is about Monday's statement by our Attorney General that the amber mob puts a million dollars in our money with you every day. You know, the subject of amber, it's probably already eaten through everyone's brains, but it's still relevant today. Currently, we cannot regulate this crime in any way to this day. I'm talking about crime, because every day when hundreds of acres of forest are cut off, when they're destroying our natural layer of land, and we're stealing our land and our Ukrainian state, it's really a crime. So today, I would like to go first to the leaders of our factions, to the governing body of our parliament, so that, if we want and have political will, if we want to solve this problem legally once and for all, we have to put the law in the first part of the agenda. When it becomes the '90s, think about it, the '90s a day, we'll never get to it in our lives. So once again, I just want to look to my colleagues, to all those who really believe that we can do this on our own without all the help of other countries there to solve their overall social needs, to fill the budget at the expense of our own state, by creating real jobs, we all have to join in this process. So once again, I want to thank you and invite everyone to cooperate. And for the next week, the sessional week, after all, this law must be in the order of the day in the first part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u73	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I invite Mr. Medunic to the floor of the People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u74	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Today, on the day of Prime Minister Groissman's government, a question was asked about the raiding of one of the foreign investment companies in Dnipro. Regrettably, in the past few months, such raids have been taking place throughout Ukraine. Offenders take advantage of the opportunities they had after we had adopted a package of Euro-Integration Laws and allowed notaries to register. The scheme was very similar to that used in Dniper, as in other regions. The business was written down as a person who spent 16 years in prison. Which seems to have lent business owners a large sum of money. The judge of the Dnipropetrovsk Moroz Industrial Court, against whom criminal conduct had already taken place, made a judgment in absentia. Private Notary Verba, as soon as the decision came into force, on the same day on September 21, he copied the business to this person who had previously been tried for serious crimes. And this person immediately sold it to third parties. Which can now be viewed as good-natured comforters, which, of course, is not the case. A group of national deputies have now accepted an appeal to the President of Ukraine, to the Attorney General, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, to the fact that this crime has been committed. A business with foreign Azerbaijani investments. By means of diplomatic channels, the Ukrainian diplomats had pointed out to the Ukrainian side the inadmissibility of such phenomena. We're on the verge of an international, in fact, scandal. How can we continue to develop our economy if such raids work in terms of foreign business. What enormous damage such phenomena are being offered to Ukraine’s international image, the business climate in Ukraine. We demand that the Prime Minister create an inter-ministerial group on the facts of the raids that have now taken place in our country. So that this interdisciplinary group would have a force structure. And we also demand that this situation be considered as soon as possible and that the business be returned to its legitimate owners. A group of national deputies is taking control of this situation, and so are we.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u75	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u76	And we will do everything we can to avoid such situations, and the business has been returned to its rightful owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. Please come to the microphone for the People's Front National Deputy Danielyn. Passes the word Guzu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u78	Good afternoon, dear friends. In my speech, I would like to address Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine on this matter. I'm asking him in the draft budget of the 17th year, and I'm asking you, fellow MPs, to support the so-called bill and in general a project that allows you to refinance customs revenue to finance individual projects that are taking place in certain areas. Why I think this project is useful. Because we have two choices: coming and going to the budget, and going to the recovery, and then going to the top of the central structure, we're going to redistribute the funds. And that's exactly how we know that the resource is going to go to solve the problems in the region. In the Volin region, in particular, 15-16 years was actually funded by 75 percent of the Lviv-Radehov-Luck road, which was made up of 75 percent of the new road cover. This road was like a war, and for our area it's an important connection to Lviv. And I actually go there and I see the result that this road is really made of nothing, it didn't hit holes and basically people are satisfied. Another question of how long it's going to last, how long it's going to be in the right state, is we're going to see, but in general, it's a big plus. So yesterday, I met with the head of the State Fiscal Service, Mr. Nasirov, and he doesn't deny that this project will continue in the 17th year. So I ask you very much both Vladimir Borisovich and your fellow deputies to support this proposal. And the next. I personally ask you, Vladimir Borisovich, that next year, in 2017, we will take another path. This is the road that Ukrainians enter to, more faithfully, Europe, and Europeans to Ukraine, this is the transit route of Ustilug, through the city of Volodymyr to Lutsk, and then to Raven, and to Kiev. So I'm asking you very much to include, actually, in the list, this particular road because it's going to be fair because this road is going through Ukrainian customs. And believe me, she's in a very difficult, terrible state. People who, this is my district, especially and not only, this important highway right here in Volinsky. Another highway is through Yagodin, in a better way, because it was built capital until 2012, before Euro-2012. So please continue the experiment for 2017 and consider my proposal, this is Ustilug-Volodymir-Luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u79	Thank you. The national deputy Olga Belkova gives the floor to her colleague, Mrs. Boghołec. Please come in, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! In my speech, I would like to touch on three very painful questions in the medical field. The first question is the health budget, which, according to the Health Committee, is completely unsatisfactory, and unfortunately is signed by the Ministry of Health. In this budget, child hemodialysis is funded by only 30 percent, adult oncology is funded by only 14 percent of the needs, and in fact the needs that are called are not reliable because the need is actually much higher. I would therefore like to say that the Health Committee, at its meeting, unanimously voted to accept the budget as part of the financing of health facilities as unsatisfactory. The other one. A critical situation was that the previous cabinet, the minister and his deputies, did not properly budget health care for the year. So all the health institutions in the regions, as well as our central institutions and research and research institutions, have lost their wages for the last two months of this year. So on November and December, there's nothing for people to pay, and that's an appeal to the Prime Minister to intervene immediately and make the right decisions. And the third question I'd like to highlight is the lack of understanding of the MP Corps, what is the Academy of Medical Sciences. The Academy of Medical Sciences is not just a scientific institution, they're our main clinical institutions. And the Academy of Medical Sciences, composed of the Cancer Institute, the Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery, the Institute of Hearts and 36 clinics of Level Four accreditation, are virtually without funding. Their need for drugs is 2 billion, and they are given only 400 million. So I ask and ask all MPs to support the Health Committee's demands for increased funding for the sector, this is a request to the Cabinet of Ministers to address the problem of debt and lack of wages and also to separately finance the Academy of Medical Sciences as the highest level of accreditation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. And he's invited to the floor. and the national deputy Lukianchuk gives the floor to his fellow national deputy Kishkar Paul, please. And Kishkar is handing over Krivenka. Please, People's Deputy Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u82	Good afternoon! Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Madam Chairman, colleagues! I would like to build my speech on the call for all of us Ukrainian MPs to respect our fundamental rights: the rights of citizens and our Constitution. The right to a peaceful meeting is the foundation of any state. What happened twice in Odessa "Antititruhanski koštane" is a site against a citizen of another state who runs the city's government, something that doesn't allow mobile tents to be installed, no matter what it says -- whether it's a receptionist national MP, as it says, or whether it's just a tent of citizens who want to protest. When tents of national MPs were installed in Maidan, for some reason everyone supported the Dignity Revolution. Now, sometimes I hear calls to set up a tent in the center of town, having previously reported that this is somehow illegal. I would like to thank all my fellow Ukrainian deputies, and more than a hundred of them, who have signed under the draft decree on the elections for the term in the Herson region, and those of the political parties, and Yuri Derevyanka, the Will Party, and Oleg Musia, Dmitri Dobrodomov of the Civil Control and Radical Party of Lozowa, Musiyczuk, Korczynski, Kishkara of the People's Movement, who are ready to install their tents and are already moving in this direction. And I urge the rest of the national deputies not to be afraid to put their tents on, and let them. And take counsel from men, and your helpers there to plant and to work. Now on economic issues. Today, I have asked the Prime Minister about the need to hold a meeting with the State Property Fund on two excruciating occasions. The first is the Herson cotton combination. There's a sanatorium, instead, our holding fund sends a letter to the court that lets go into liquidation when an enterprise can be saved. Creditors agree to keep the company safe, Ukreximbank agrees. The position of the FDMU is strange. There's a complex in Uzina, where there was a competition seven years ago, the company won the right to build, create a transport hub huge, over $1 billion -- an investment. Seven years, the holding fund doesn't sign anything. For seven years, we have seen 70 lawsuits won. That's not how it's done. Next. I have addressed the Head of Government and I thank the First Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba for his support in the preservation of the North. I have worked personally for five years, and four of them are deputy director-general of the Southern World, and I know what a unique enterprise this is. And it certainly needs to be reformed in a fundamental way. When I was a deputy head of the Space Agency in 2009, we approved the Yusmash Reform Program and the KGB. Then the power changed, and the finger against the finger was not hit. To this day, I welcome the change in the leadership of the Space Agency, and I call for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u83	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u84	I call for support for today and for the preservation of the Yusmash, to preserve our future space. And the government that supported that 5030 bill, which is supposed to help Half-Early with energy resources and pay-as-you-go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u85	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Igor Lucenko of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u86	The honourable MP community, please listen to some figures: 5 million investors affected, more than 82 banks went bankrupt, over 400 billion dollars of assets that are now being turned into nothing. And where is the response of the law enforcement agencies? I want to ask you, where is the indictment of the courts against the owners of the banks? Where are criminal conduct against the leadership of the NBA? [[Applause]] Where, in the end, is NAB's activity against employees in the Deposit Guarantee Fund? There's nothing. I want to go to Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, Attorney General of Ukraine: Mr. Lucenko, please tell me, and do you really think that Mr. Lagom, co-owner of the Delta Bank, is not guilty of anything? I want to speak to Petnik, head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine: Mr. Sitnik, do you really think that there are saints and innocent people at the National Bank? In the Deposit Guarantee Fund, right? I would like to announce my statement, particularly in one of the most pressing cases: 700 million coins of real estate in Krestatika were lost in court only because of the fact that the Deposit Guarantee Fund did not appear in court. Here's the crime scene. I call on the MPs: Honorary colleagues, let's merge with the affected investors, let's finally help them, put pressure on the law enforcement authorities together, because this is where the criminal stage has gone to get the indictments against the fraudsters, so that the fraudsters will sit for the game. I think we should use our powers. I think we need to help people. And we also need to take changes in legislation, of course, as one of the stages of our work. And one of the most important things is that we need to get back to law enforcement by subjects of public law — officials, civil servants. The deposit guarantee fund is now laughing out loud.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u87	Fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u88	They laugh at investors' faces, they say, "Yes, we make illegal decisions, we make illegal legal acts, but you don't do anything to us, go, judge." Is that the norm of the government mechanism? In any state, there is a mechanism to control the actions of such persons. We don't have it, we took it out in 2014. So this is part of our legislative work with you. Dear Ruler, keep this problem quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u89	Fifteen seconds, because it's not over yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u90	Thank you. This problem cannot be silenced; it is a social explosion that can turn into a major social explosion, draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. National MP Igor Popov of the Radical Party gives the floor to the national deputy, Mr. Suhevich. Please, Mr. Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u92	The Ukrainian people, the situation is that in the eastern part of our country there is war, they are killed, they are badly wounded, but they are divided into two varieties: white and black. What do I mean? Those involved in hostilities are entitled to certain privileges, according to this decree: they have the right to retire early. But when seriously injured, but the family of the deceased comes to the Pension Fund, they are told: "Give me a certificate from the military committee that you were in the war, that you are really a part of the fighting, and the military won't give. "We have an ATO and there's no war," that's how they explain it in a war machine. At the same time, the participants in World War II as well as the decree of ministers 19. A year compared to them, they get these rights. Those who fought in Iraq, Mozambique, Vietnam, Afghanistan, bozna-de are all participants in the fighting. And those who defend Ukraine today do not have the right opportunity to retire early, as well as for families, parents, and widows who have died. Think about it. We went to the Prime Minister, because this is the same government decree he mentioned, and we asked him to bring another tape, "ATO participants since April 2014." No, we were denied, they said it was possible only by means of a legislative act. Think, at the same time, there's such a line that participants in hostilities are considered to be those who fought terrorist gangs in Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia from 1944 to 19651. That means those who fought with national liberation movements. There was no war, but they are involved in fighting, while Ukrainian defenders are not involved in fighting. I passed an appropriate bill, supported by the Social Committee, back in October of last year. He was accepted in the first reading, but he is not brought to the second, and if he is introduced, at a time when he cannot be voted: there is simply no time. I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council, and I ask that it be introduced as soon as possible at the right time, so that the Supreme Council may consider it, accept it as a law and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u93	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u94	so that the Supreme Council can really review this law and restore justice
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u95	Thank you, Mr. Suhevich. The National Deputy Igor Vasjunik, who is addressed by his colleague, Mr. Bondar, is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u96	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Igor Vasjunik, Lviv, People's Front. In my speech, I would like to draw attention to both politicians and authorities in general to the situation that is now in the city of Lviv. The point is, there's a garbage collapse in Lviv. In all the micro-regions of the garbage mountain, in separate places, there's a lot of anti-sanitary. The soldiers of lion's garbage hundreds of miles [100 km] in Ukraine have come to the point of absurdity. Sadly, this resulted from the complete irresponsibility and inaction of Mayor Lvov Andrija Sadov. Unfortunately, Lviv and the Lvivians, and the almost a million city of Lviv, became a hostage of a 10-year-old, I would say the cynical, lying corruption policy of the mayor of Sadov. Sadly, it is. But the Levites cannot be held hostage to this situation. It is a pity that, despite the tragic situation in Gribovich, the authorities have not developed a clear plan or a comprehensive program of dealing with solid wastes, nor has they even announced an open-ended transparent investment competition. You know, I have the impression that the city authorities still want to make money on this black trash can. It can't go on like this. No community gives permission to the city of Lviv for a new territory under the garbage treatment plant. Why? Because she no longer believes the mayor of Gardens because they are fed up with this cynical lying game and politics. You know, I want to go to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who has many years of experience in managing the urban economy, asking to create a working group, to develop a clear and effective palette of implementation and exit from this crisis, to conduct a public transparent investment competition, because the city of Lviv never conducts transparent and public competitions, because the mayor of Sadowa only conducts competitions for his own. In this room there are many Levites, and in general there are also many Levites in power. Lviv not only voted for Self-Help, but Lviv voted for both the People's Front and the BPT and the Fatherland and many other political powers. I ask the Prime Minister to take this matter under control in order to resolve this issue. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u97	Please give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u98	If people see that there's a concrete action plan, if people hear an open, transparent competition that's going to be announced, if people see the state's guardianship, they're going to meet, they're going to pick up the area. And there will come an investor who will build this factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Radical Party Lalashka National Deputy Linko, to whom Mr. Silantiev gives the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u100	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Honorable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, would like to draw your attention to the important events that took place this week, namely, the meeting of a tripartite group in Minsk, which reportedly led to a truce. In fact, in two years of war with Russia, the Ukrainian Parliament has never listened or accepted any. A decision on the Minsk negotiations. So all these agreements that are going on only confirm the words that are known that all agreements with Russia don't even count on the paper on which they are written. We see that there is no progress in stopping fire, and in order for the actual withdrawal of troops from the occupied areas of Donbas and Luhansk. Parliament adopted a reintegration plan for the Crimea as a result of parliamentary hearings this week. In fact, we need to adopt, not a reintegration plan, but a plan for the depopulation of Crimea and individual areas of Donetsk, Lugansk. Because until we reintegrate, we need to free them from the Russian forces. And in this respect, this is the highest rostrum of the Ukrainian state. Because the Ukrainian Parliament is the highest body in the country that has been removed from the balance of our territories and our Ukrainians in the east and the south. The last foreign ministers' visits to France, Germany, have shown that the world is getting more and more involved in the Putin Capitalization Plan called "Minish Arrangements". No withdrawal arrangements. It's not going to happen, it's not going to happen, it's not going to happen, it's impossible, it's not going to happen. So we need to understand that this path leads us nowhere, and we need to look for real solutions to this crisis. To that end, Parliament must adopt a strategy, and we must internationally state that, more strongly, we claim security assurances regarding the Budapest Memorandum. A statement by Dusty, our President, about the fact that the world didn't pass a safety test, it's actually a very tolerant speech yet. Because the world has not just passed the test, the world has put all the security arrangements at risk, and the nuclear countries that have guaranteed security have shown to all the world that these guarantees cost nothing, and this puts all the security in the world at risk. Therefore, the issue of Ukraine today should sound more serious. And to that end, the Ukrainian Parliament has to ask more serious questions here in Ukraine, because we see that the longer this war goes on, the less we pay attention to it, the less we mention what's going on in the East. The only thing to say is what progress is, even though it's a little bit happening during the Minsk Accords, and what's the result of the truce, is the exchange of prisoners, even though we can see that there are very big problems in this too. Moreover, we see that in the occupied territories, Ukrainians are being detained and arrested by those terrorists and Russian forces. And today we put up a poster and we urge the whole world and Ukraine to pay more attention and more actively support to the young boys who were arrested for just supporting Ukraine. And I would like to announce their names, and so that these people are also included in the prisoner exchange plan. These guys are Kowalczuk, Balavin, Lazusko, Hmelenko, Solodovnikov, Voronov, Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u101	Please give me 15 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u102	Freedom for Ukrainian political prisoners, all the hostages held by the Russian forces, the invaders, the territories occupied by the Donetské and Lugansk region, and the Crimea. We must demand release to the last of our Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm just going to allow myself a little reaction because the subject concerns my work directly. First. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to address the distinguished Radical Party of Light and your faction and note the following. We have created a special site in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that is informative, discussionable, where we are discussing the issue of the reintegration of Donbass in general and informing us of the progress of the mine negotiations. Three meetings of this group have already taken place. And yesterday there was a third session where a representative of the Ukrainian side was present in the security group Eugene Marchuk. And the only faction that hasn't delegated its representatives there yet is the Radical Party. It seems to me that this is actually a useful site, where you can ask questions, and have more information so that you may have fewer questions, or more questions, but based on objective information. That's the first one. And so we invite you to join us. The second is about the hostages and the children you told me about. I'm the only one who wants to encourage you to be very delicate in certain things, because the position of Ukrainian power here is that these guys are not involved in any diversions or things. And we don't understand at all what happened in the provocation, how we view it as provocation, and we think it's necessary for these children to return to their families. And if we're in a public rhetoric, sometimes we say something like that that can hurt children, please consider it. And let's be as delicate as possible to save our children. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, and believe me, we're fighting for every Ukrainian, whether it's civilian, or it's military, but it's not yours now, so I said, it's very important our delicacy in public speaking. Believe me, I'm asking you very much. Thank you. Next word, National Deputy Korchik. He gives Mr. Dereviank the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u104	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had a great deal of betrayal of the expectations of millions of Ukrainians regarding fair tariffs, regarding the formation of an authority, a regulator that sets such fair tariffs, because yesterday was really a chance to reform this area. Instead, we got a great deal of betrayal through the adoption of a bill that was supported by a majority that was supported by the Opposition Block, by all the factions of the oligarchs who are here in Parliament, I mean the groups of the MPs of the will of the people and the Rebirth. And it's that body that is today unconstitutional, which was created by the President, that is the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Utilities, whose head is Dmitri Wolf, who used to work for the Roshenk Corporation, Peter Prashenko. Boris Ciganenko, who works there too, is a businessman named Grigorishina, who worked for him and Ahmetov at Kievenergo. Vladimir Evdokimov, who is a business partner and associate of Arsenius Yatsenuk. Yuri Golyak, who is associated with Dmitr Firthash, is an oligarch. Victoria Morozov is associated with the structures of Grigorishin. All of these "loving people" have so far managed a budget of over 500 billion dollars, and this year and next year they will manage the costs and tariffs that regulate the sums of over 700 billion dollars. This is every payment, the honourable Ukrainians that you will receive, who will decide these people. The Will Party, as a liberal party, is strongly opposed to the usurpation of power by the President, and yesterday, indeed, there has been actual usurpation, because control of this commission will now be exercised by the President along with his oligarch partners and the Opposition Block. That's why the Will Political Party demanded that this institution be as independent as possible. And we suggested that 300 national deputies vote for the appointment of members of this committee. We voted for each faction to be a professional representative according to the criteria laid down by law, and unfortunately Parliament did not support it. I personally want to thank every one of the 100 people's deputies who supported this proposal, because only the format that 300 deputies are assigned and 300 deputies are likely to be unable to remove each and every one of the members of the national commission is ensuring that this commission is independent. The fact is that today there is no political will for tariffs to be smaller, there is no political will not to choose either Ukrainians or Ukrainian businesses, and this policy of active power is totally destructive and destructive. Dear colleagues, the political party "Will" demands that the President now, if he does not wish to confirm this usurpation, if he does not want to confirm the course for the election of Ukrainians, veto this law, reverse it, because these norms are anti-constitutional, there is no provision in the President's Constitution for the appointment of members of the NCREKP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u105	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u106	There is also no authority in the Supreme Council’s apparatus to carry out the actions provided for by this law. If the guarantor of the Constitution is indeed a guarantor of the Constitution, and the Constitution is binding on the President, and so is the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u107	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. The national deputy Halasjuk, who is given the word of his colleague Kirichenko, Shuhevich, is invited to the floor. But if you're not six, and you're a little less than a minute away, more of your colleagues will be there. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina! Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! There are two models of economic policy. One model that, unfortunately, we can still see, is to fill the inflation budget, based on artificial income distribution, it's to keep the bracelets artificially at the expense of IMF loans, to live from trance to trance -- it's just like a glass of vodka for the drunkard. The second version of economic policy offered by the Radical Party faction. Fill the budget, keep the bracelets stable, and keep prices stable by increasing investment, production and exports. Ukraine's budget has to meet two main requirements: to ensure accelerated economic growth, not to be 1-2 per cent per year, but to be at least 7-8 per cent per year. This is acknowledged even by our foreign partners, that it is absolutely possible, in a normal state policy, if they don't steal if we pursue Ukrainian economic policy. This is the basic principle of budgeting. And the second function of the budget is to provide social protection for the population. It is the provision of living standards that allow people to live, to eat, to heal, to teach children, and not to dream of emigration, as today, unfortunately, many Ukrainians dream. This is absolute disgrace and recognition of the failure of power reforms. We're told it's a success, and you ask people on the street what a success it is. So in order to correct this, the Radical Party faction has proposed an anti-crisis economic development plan, which contains absolutely clear priorities and bills that will allow a substantial acceleration in economic development, raise social standards, pensions and wages. How to raise them in such a way that they are not affected by inflation. Because when the government says that 10 percent raise social standards today, inflation promises 8 percent, and we understand that it's not going to be 8 percent, it's going to be greater, that's what all economic indicators say. So then it's a tiny rise and it's already tiny, it's going to be consumed by inflation. The Radical Party faction offers specific mechanisms to increase the welfare of citizens so that they can feel it so that they can buy more on their incomes than they are buying today and looking with optimism into the future, rather than thinking about how to feed their families. In order to put this into practice, Oleg Lášk and I, with the Radical Party faction, proposed 15 legislative initiatives that envision, inter alia, the protection of the constitutional interests of people with disabilities II, II, III, pensioners who do not have proper employment, women who have retired in the long term. Today, 500,000 Ukrainians live on social assistance and pensions for less than a thousand dollars a month, you can imagine, with a real living minimum of over two thousand dollars, they have, most of them have 949 dollars. Today, we have asked this question to the Prime Minister, and he needs to be resolved immediately. We're proposing bills to provide free medical supplies to the elderly, basic drugs we have to give to the retirees for free. It's absolutely real, and we're showing where to get the money for that. To do so, we need to develop our own industry, our own economy. We're proposing a package of industrial bills. The 2142a Export Credit Agency bill, so that at the expense of the World Bank, at the expense of state guarantees, we can provide our producers with cheaper loans, which is what all countries in Europe do except for Ukraine, except for Moldova and Albania. So it's time for us to leave this club in three countries where there is no export credit agency. The other one. The proposal, the Industrial Parks Bills, is to create incentives to invest in Ukraine, so that we can get even a little bit of competition with strong countries like Poland, Turkey and others. 25 years ago, we were ahead of them. Today we're 2-3 times behind us. Industrial parks are the real mechanism that will allow us to catch up with these countries and build a decent life in our country. These are bills to support the woodworking sector. I'm stressing that we're not going to let the government abolish the moratorium on the exports of roundwood that we've chosen here with you, which is working today, gives a plus to the budget, by the jobs, by the exports, by the production. This should be done in every area of the Ukrainian industry. This was done with sunflower oil once -- and today Ukraine's number one in the world, 55 percent of the global market holds. And what, the government now wants to give up the entire Ukrainian industry for a foreign loan that will be returned 10 years later? We won't let that happen. Low level of important sectoral legislation. With regard to supporting the metallurgical industry (3873), to remove restrictions on scrap metal, so that without an import moment, you can import metal scrap metal into Ukraine, here with it to make metal, here to make airplanes and wagons, cars and ships and sell in other countries, not raw materials to trade as today. Adopt a bill prohibiting the privatization of Turboatmu. Such strategic enterprises should be cared for like the pupil of an eye. Debt restructuring of the South Seas. Adoption of a package of anti-residering bills. Acceptance of a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land We need to sell food, not raw materials, and not send people to other countries by emigrants. This is the fundamental position of the Radical Party faction. We propose to all Ukrainian forces to support such economic policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, next on the list of speakers is Igor Vasjunik. He took advantage of his right. Yeah, let's move on. The next one is Mr. Suhevich. He's giving the word. He also exercised his right. Next up is Konstankevitch, national deputy, non-factional. I'd like to invite you to our rostrum for the first time, Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u110	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. I'm really doing my first performance in this iposa. And I want to address you with the authority that my colleagues at the Ukrainian Patriot Union have given me, with the concern for the critical situation that we have in terms of underfunding the medical sector and education. So two problems that I want to highlight in my speech. First of all, in the last few months in Volina, health workers have not been paid. And this is related to the fact that, firstly, the medical sector is traditionally underfunded, and despite the fact that medical workers have been forced to go to great lengths and to bed-and-dwellers, and the workers in this field, there is also no pay-out, no pay-back, in general, the medical sector has become marginal in our social life. So we ask the Ukrainian government to pay attention to the critical situation in the medical field and to the fact that in the 17th year, if this is the case, we predict the social destabilization of social life. And the second problem I wanted to break in my speech was education and, in particular, the Taurian National University of the name of Vernadian. And in view of the fact that this school moved to Kiev in 14 years in connection with the annexation of Crimea, they are not yet organized into the financial or educational problems of this institution. Today, workers and students of this university wanted to go to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and stand in such an uncivilized way, defending their rights. Students don't have a dormitory to date, students don't have a scholarship to date, there's a problem with funding for the 17th year. I ask the Ukrainian government to pay attention to this university, which is also a university, which is also a symbol of Ukrainian independence and the support of the Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And now the national deputy of Halasyuk and Linko of the Radical Party of Oleg Lalashka are handing over the word to their colleague Mr. Artemenko. Please. Colleagues, we're working until the second hour, so everyone who's written down, I think, will be able to make a statement. Please, Mr. Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u112	Honorable People of Ukraine, Honourable People’s Deputies, Dearly Attended! The situation at the Odessa Harbor Plant is of great concern. Why? The Odessa import plant is the largest chemical enterprise in Ukraine and is important for the state, for the state economy. As we know, the last three months have seen events involving the privatisation of the Odessa Portal Plant in connection with the events that took place in the NABU, which took place in the Attorney General’s Office. Two days before the start of the competition, two NAQ and Odessa port managers were arrested before the end of the application for the Odessa Corps. Of course, no investor would go to Ukraine under such conditions. For some reasons, after their detention, the factory’s work was paralyzed, gas supplies stopped, gas supplies stopped for the Odessa import plant. The government is now making a decision, considering a decision to significantly reduce the value of Odessa’s transportation plant. And a new competition will be announced, announced. Such events are not supported by the people of Ukraine and, of course, by foreign investors. So I'm going to the government, I'm going to the Attorney General to intervene immediately and find out why the gas supply was cut off, and I'm going to put gas into this company. Why? For the jobs that exist in Odessa to be fed, the jobs that are clearly fed by these families are people who have jobs. And what's important is that we have a flag of the chemical industry in Ukraine -- the Odessa import plant -- a working state enterprise. That's the first one. The other one. The problem that I want to raise right now is, of course, the situation in the Ukrainian nuclear-industrial complex. Lately, me and my colleagues from the Radical Party, other friends in parliament, have been raising this issue and focusing on society, the full attention of the government and the President to the situation that exists in the nuclear energy complex. Sadly, nothing changes. Regrettably, the people who have led this important nuclear industry to the state that it is, leaving everything in its place. Unfortunately, Mr. Nedashkovski is still in charge of this nuclear-fuel-energy complex. So I turned to the government, and I turned to the President. And with the support of the Radical Party, we demand, first, that Mr. Nedashkowski be immediately released from his position. To conduct an independent audit of all the things that have happened in Energoatom over the last 15 years in the nuclear energy complex of Ukraine, and, of course, the results of this audit send all the materials to the prosecutor's office. On the other hand, the Radical Party, other MPs, have developed a nuclear-energy rescue program with the experts of the Minpalvenergo. This program was my own signature as an initiative to the government. And I'm very pleased that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, has finally listened to our constant demands for attention to the situation, and this program is now under consideration by the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Nasalika. I'm sure the situation that now exists in the nuclear-energy complex cannot be so far. And one last question. I want to go to Mrs. Irina, my colleague, who informed society that the site opened in the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, the only Radical Party has not given its representative. If we received an official invitation or information not five minutes before the beginning, but, well, in a day or two, if we actually were to communicate very often, if we turned to say that there would be a meeting in this room, there would definitely be representatives of the Radical Party there. That's right. It's different. A year ago, we sent a letter, an official letter signed by our leader, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka, where we fully informed both the Head of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Committee of Profiles about the attitude of the Radical Party towards the Minsk Treaties. A full legal and professional analysis of what the Minsk Accords are and what we think they can do to help the situation in our east. So once again, I'm stressing that the Radical Party is ready at any time, at any time, to take any job, in any area that will stop the war, in any area, in the groups that exist in this process. And most importantly, we're all in the same boat. If anything happens, it will happen to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u113	Thank you. I have no doubt that we are all set up for an exclusively peaceful solution to the Donbas conflict. We sent this invitation a day, received by the Radical Party. And Igor Popov was delegated, unfortunately, I think it's a technical question that he didn't come. And that's why we're going to get along, and we're going to be particularly inviting. And we have such an arrangement that we're going to meet this site once every two weeks. And I'm glad you're interested in joining him, dear colleagues. And now we invite Mr. Illenka to the floor, who will also have six minutes, because he is given the floor by his colleague Golko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u114	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! There are many extremely topical topics that concern millions today, tens of millions of our fellow citizens. But today's speech, I would like to dedicate an important topic to our Parliament's work and one important bill that we, the Freedoms, have already registered at the very beginning of Parliament's work on this call. This is a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring access to the coast of water objects for general use No. 1007. This bill, it was voted in the first reading on February 4, 2015, a year and a half ago. 280 deputies then voted in favour. A little more than a month later, on March 18, 2015, the profile committee had already sent him for second reading and recommended to Parliament that he accept it, that it should be approved in general, is the appropriate decision of the committee. And since then there has been no movement at all, this bill has not been put to the vote. And I'd like to say what this bill is all about. The essence of this bill is very simple that it gives absolutely real legal mechanisms finally to realize the right of people to free access to water objects of general use. What we see on our land today, when Ukrainians cannot approach Dniper, they cannot approach the seashore, they cannot approach the lake. Because some rich people built palaces there for money stolen from people, set up huge fences, set up armed guards there, and don't let people in, and it's illegal. In fact, this law gives the mechanism absolutely legal to dismantle these fences, allowing people to go to water, fine and punish those who put those fences, restricts access and so forth. And actually, I think that this problem is very important today, and Parliament would finally have to make a decision on this issue, the more on the first reading all of them were unanimous in favour, all of them supported and so on. And actually, if we look at what's going on around Kiev, you can look 50 kilometers down the stream from the city, you can't go out to Dniper at all, you can't go out there, you can't go out there, you can't go out there, you can't go out there, you can't go into the fences, you can't find any private docks, you can't understand what they're talking about. And there's absolutely no way for people to rest, fish, just get in the water. I think that this bill should finally be voted on, and this issue needs to be resolved. And I urge the leadership of the Supreme Council to pay the same attention, and this bill is free to put to the vote and vote. The next question that I wanted to raise in connection with what I had already covered in part was the environmental situation with the Dnipro River. You know, there's been a lot of talk about this in the media that's simple. We're essentially on the verge of an environmental disaster. That our main river is in a catastrophically polluted state, and we have a whole series of prerequisites for that. First of all, pollution from various industrial wastes, pollution from large cities. And unfortunately, there is absolutely no control over the quality of water now, and we do not forget that millions of people get it in the sewers and so on, and their health depends directly on it. Plus directly depends on the ecological state of the huge region that is all over Ukraine. And we realize that we also need to take steps to stop it. Finally, the use in Ukraine must be banned, as is the case in all civilized countries, of phosphate powders, because it is one of the main sources of water pollution. And we need, as a parliament, to make the right decisions and make them in order to end this environmental catastrophe somehow. Finally, we need to start controlling all the pollution, the discharges that go into the rivers, first of all in Dnipro, what doesn't happen today at all. Because for another 2.5 years it was forbidden to carry out checks, to control industrial objects. And actually for today, this job is not working at all, it's running, and we need to restore this control, and we need to reinstate some fines to make it stop. And we need, I think, to also draw a special ecological tax from those who build up the banks of rivers with their own palaces. Let's do it. In addition to these fences, and people can approach the water, they need to pay a special tax, which would then be used to clean up the water, to clean the environment from pollution. I realize that there are many questions that need to be discussed. But since there is an opportunity today to speak in the "Various" in general, I ask you to pay attention to these issues. First of all, I remind you once again, Bill 1107, which has long been put into the hall and voted in the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Next on our list of speakers, Mr. Sverk. He's gone. Next, Illenko took advantage of his right. Mr. Osuhovski goes on to pass on the right to speak to his colleague, National Deputy Suprunka. Please, Mr. Suprunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u116	Alexander Suprunenko, majority constituency 216, city of Kiev Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Respectable squires! I have to officially turn from this high rostrum to the Kiev City Head Vitalia Klicka for the unsatisfactory operation of the sewer network and the restoration of the private sector of the DVR region in Kiev. Yes, in 2006, work was started on the reconstruction of the sewerage and water supply networks of the private sector of the DVR in Kiev, where the contractor was KP Dniproudtechservis, and the general order was TOV SU-630. Due to the lack of adequate funding in the previous years, the economic and social development programmes in Kiev have not been completed, namely: no water networks are connected to their wells, no closures are installed and no connections with urban water, no sewage networks are put into operation or transferred to the balance sheet of the Kiev Water Channel PAT. What I'm trying to say is that network reconstruction works have been going on for more than 10 years. This fact is unacceptable. So on July 20, this year, during another flooding of the streets by sewers, with the aim of paying attention to the importance of the problem to the inhabitants, it was blocked down the street of Doubush, where the cargo customs complex is located. In view of the above, please, Vitalia Volodymyrovich, take the matter under personal control. Urgent organizational and legal measures to finance the reconstruction of sewerage networks and the water supply of the private sector in Kiev are being carried out, with further introduction into the operation and transfer to the balance sheet of the Kyivwater Channel PAT. Please consider my statement an official parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u117	Thank you. The next MP on the list is Mr. Igor Goodz. He took advantage of his right. Alexi Mushak. None. Aresonkov, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u118	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, dear lady presiding, distinguished viewers! I'd like to address everyone right now from the entire group of national MPs who recently created the Chernobyl Association of People's Deputies, which included 18 members of the eighth vocation and a large group of members of the previous vocations. The goal of this association, as it were, is to coordinate efforts and the constituency, our Ukrainian government, public organizations, government groups, with a view to finally developing a new comprehensive plan to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for at least 17-20 years. The old plan, it's not working today, the measures that the government is taking, we don't think are effective enough, so today it's a very important question. We speak in this regard as those who are willing to help the government today in organizing this activity. But for days we got acquainted with the draft budget for the following year. I mean, we have a whole bunch of questions. Those numbers that are sounding, they look like they're sounding at the level of last year. But where are the questions that have accumulated debts for unpaid housing, where there is a whole range of issues related to children, nutrition, recovery, and finally our debt to liquidators. So today, we propose that the government, together with us, concentrate on working together to develop this plan and to deal with the consequences of that terrible catastrophe that we are experiencing today. Let's get this over with. You know, for days we greeted the relief workers with a professional holiday and talked about that, well, thank God, the year ended, there were not many forest fires, but today in the territory of Ravensk, Žitomirsk, Kyiv district, Chernigiv district, the Torpians are already burning. Look at the state of our fire services, the parts: outdated technology, the wages that are completely not equal to the level that even the IMF is in today's police system. So I would also like to pay attention to the government and plan in the budget for the following year to increase the cost of maintaining the Emergency Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u119	And thank you, dear colleague. The next on the list of speakers, the Mantis, took advantage of her right. Then there's the National Deputy Semenchenko of Self-Help. Mr. Semenchenko, will you be performing? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u120	I want to make a statement from those who, two years after the beginning of the Russian aggression on Donbassa, after they have chosen Ukraine and left their homes, try to integrate into our lives in the west, in the east, in the center of Ukraine, they are watching the process that goes on in Minsk, which is accompanied by constant negotiations, the exchange of prisoners, and they keep asking questions: When can they return to their homes? A new initiative has now been launched following the long negotiations on the deployment of the so-called armed forces DNR, LNR and Ukrainian Armed Forces. I also wish to speak not only of myself, but of the entire Self-Help faction, we believe that such processes are not going in the way that is in Ukraine's national interest. First of all, as a result of the division of troops, the same so-called gray zone is formed, during which we lost several thousand square kilometres of territory, because all of these zones were immediately captured by Russian troops. Second. We've been in the gray zone a number of times, and not all people feel sorry for the invaders. Many are watching and asking when the State will fulfil its obligations and protect them. Leaving them in the new gray zone, we basically condemn them to being dependent on the aggressor, and we abandon them. Third. It is indignant and inconceivable that the document contains signatures of members of the armed forces known as DNR, LNR. So we're essentially taking Russia out of the position of an aggressor, and it's already in the position of a peacemaker. We're giving them the opportunity to prove to the world that we're not there. In this way, we are legalizing the civil war in our country. Because, despite all the efforts of the President of Ukraine, who tells the United Nations that the Ukrainian people are fighting against the aggressor, our legal steps are contrary. The Self-Help faction requires, first, the Public Prosecutor's Office to investigate and determine the powers of the people who speak in Minsk on behalf of Ukraine. Second, it is necessary, and we turn to the leadership of Parliament, to bring to the debate of the Supreme Council our bill, which was supported by the MPs from the WFP, from the People's Front and from a number of other factions, on the recognition of the territories occupied at the Donbassa, occupied. We must now offer every effort to unite all parties around the country's protection. Let's bet for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u121	Thank you. Please be next in the list of speakers of the national MP Suprunenko. He took advantage of his right to speak. National deputy Yegor Sobolev. He took advantage of his right. And he's handing it over to the national deputy. Mr. Sergey Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u122	Thank you. I wasn't really planning on speaking, but I saw, I heard, some of my fellow MPs from Lviv are actually really worried about the problem. worry about the problem, the unresolved garbage problem in Lviv. And I've decided to make a few general remarks. Well, first of all, I think there's very few people in Ukraine today who have doubts about where this problem came from and why it's gotten so much political resonance. Today, we have absolutely no doubt that Lviv is in artificially created garbage blockade because of a harsh position on many matters of political power, the leader of which is actually today the urban head of Lviv. Today, even in the east and west, Ukrainians see it very clearly. Instead, the problem, the solution, the problem in Lviv, is not the problem of yesterday. Since 1958, the garbage dump has been in operation to make you understand, covers 40 hectares, and such garbage dumps are in every region, in every area of Ukraine. This is a long time ago, and in 25 years, unfortunately, Ukraine -- the government, the state -- has not been able to develop a clear policy to solve this problem, as the European Union has, by the way, adopted all the necessary European directives. And Lviv, left alone with one problem, began to solve it five to six years ago, when we worked with the World Bank on appropriate technical and economic grounds to involve private investors, but also taking into account global global crises and governments, some corrupts that have changed other corrupt, respectively, low-investment climates of private investors wishing to invest hundreds of millions of euros in garbage disposals and building new waste-processing, modern waste-processing complexes, there are no. And those proposals that are, they predict a tens or hundreds of times increase in tariffs. It's impossible to talk about garbage burns today, for example, no one will. It's also very surprising that the day before the fire, namely arson, is the official version of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, happened and led to this tragedy, were at the conclusion of the negotiations with the community on the allocation of land for the construction of a new modern garbage treatment complex. It's very strange. It's just as strange that nobody's helping today, but they're blocking it now, and it's coming from the mountain itself, including from the President's Administration, the garbage disposal, that's blocking the discharge. Agree to the long-standing project of building a modern garbage treatment complex with landfill closure, a project to be financed by the European Bank, the World Bank, and a solution that is still on the level.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mr. Halasyuk is once again invited to the floor, and today he wants to beat the record of everyone, taking six minutes, because he is given the right to speak by his colleague, Mr. Fish and Mr. Wolf. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u124	Dear Mrs. Irina, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine! I want to give you one very good example of industrial politics in Ukraine. Remember, 20 years ago, Ukraine imported sunflower oil because we lacked it in the country. And then increased export duties were introduced for these goods to 23 percent, and then they went down to 17 a little bit. And so we've created a very powerful national industry, and today, Ukraine is exporting sunflower oil to the world by almost $4 billion, $4 billion in our export balance, our total commodity exports are only 38 billion. Today, thanks to such industrial policies, Ukraine has become number one in the field, and today we control 55 percent of the world’s sunflower oil market. And if such protectionist measures were not then introduced for the benefit of Ukrainian producers, today we would continue to live at the expense of importing sunflower oil and buying, I assure you, at the expense of the same foreign loans that the government is acquiring today. And now we move on to today. Last year in this Parliament, I am grateful to all colleagues who have supported the persistence of the Radical Party faction on this issue, we have chosen a moratorium on the export of roundwood from Ukraine so that unprocessed wood will not be exported abroad. Because today, look, fox Carpathians, environmental disaster, people don't have any money, there's no work, there's no budget. I've got chess on my desk in my office that's made of Ukrainian wood that's made by Ukrainians, but Ukrainian workers in Poland and then these chess, they're sold for euros, and the euro we're borrowing in the European Union. So this is an example of a completely disgraceful policy that our government is still continuing and the faction of the Radical Party needs to change. And I am very grateful to all the colleagues in this Parliament, regardless of the political views that support this kind of pro-Ukrainian economic policy. Today, the government is planning to abolish the moratorium on the export of roundwood. I have information that they will even try to make this not by the law of the government, but will seek out one of the national MPs to accept this shameful initiative in Parliament, or even try to amend some technical law. I would like to refer once again to the First Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Economics of Stéphane Ivanovich Kubiv. Stepan Ivanovich, that's not gonna happen. This Parliament is Ukrainian, it will never allow the moratorium to be lifted on the exports of roundwood. A few days ago, we held a broad national branch meeting with all the largest furniture, paper manufacturers, woodworking associations in Ukraine. And I want to thank all my colleagues, Victor Ivanovich Vuk, who is here, colleagues from various factions, Alexander Borisovich Bakumenko, all the Ukrainian patriots who took part in this meeting. And we've given a very clear understanding to the government that there's no chance of a moratorium. We will repeat this economic success, which has been with sunflower oil -- and Ukraine will sell abroad not for nothing, we will not produce this poverty in Ukraine, but we will sell furniture, paper, energy pellets we will use in Ukraine to replace dependence on foreign gas. This is an example of national economic policy. Moreover, our positions are extremely powerful and based on official economic statistics. I went to the State Fiscal Service with an official request, got results, and we published those results. They show that today, thanks to the moratorium, there are positive figures for the production of finished products, exports abroad of finished products, revenues to the state budget, and dollars. When the whole industry today falls because of the government's inaction, today the woodworking paper industry has shown plus 18 percent in dollars of the state budget because of the moratorium. Today, investments in woodworking, imports of woodworking equipment into Ukraine have increased by 3.5 times. Think about it, 3.5 times because of this moratorium! So what does the government offer us to do? He suggests selling Ukrainian industry’s future for $600 million, selling Ukrainian ecology, and selling Ukrainians’ worth of life in their own country. They're taking out foreign loans. Look, do we have any wealth in the country? We have little, perhaps land of the Blacklands, or we have few forests of our own, or do we have few state-owned strategic enterprises that are able to fill the budget? No, it's not. I'll tell you what I don't have. This authority has no vision, it has no strategy, it has no political will to realize Ukraine’s economic interests. And our historic mission with you, our goal as the Ukrainian Parliament is to force this power to act in the interests of Ukraine, even if they don't understand it today, even if they don't share these values today. Believe me, the story of this will not forget, and this example of the ban on the export of roundwood, it will certainly enter the economics manuals and the history books of Ukraine as an economic success. And thanks to him, including us, we will raise the whole field of the Ukrainian industry. In Ukraine, this area is slightly over $2 billion; in Poland, the same area of forests is 25 billion. That's why we're going to go Europe, and we're going to do what Europe does, do it to be economically powerful. Thank you for your support to the Ukrainian Parliament. We will save the moratorium on the export of roundwood, as proposed by the Radical Party faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now invite you to the word of the non-frustrational Musius. And then there were colleagues in the hall who were given the word to the people’s deputies. Then we'll have this order of speeches, and then we'll finish our session. National Deputy Parasuk, National Deputy Igor Shurma and Fatherland National Deputy Evtushok along with Ivchenko. Thank you. Mr. Musai, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u126	Good day, distinguished national MPs, good day, distinguished Ukrainian people. Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red City, Galicina, National Control political party. I would like to draw your attention to a few questions. First. These are the principles of budgeting, which we are now given thanks to God, even though we have the opportunity to discuss for the following year. The same principle and discussions on decentralization, the need to transfer a lot of funding to local budgets, as well as a lot of taxes, were made last year. But something in the past budget, and this is being followed, and in this budget, they've forgotten about some of the administrative structures that exist in Ukraine, they're the cities of regional importance. Thus, district budgets and district budgets were given health subsidies, district budgets and district budgets passed on subsidies to education and to vocational education. You know, for about six months now, we've almost won professional and technical funding for vocational schools. So in the next year's budget, it's the same colossal. Well, those officials who were in the totally underprivileged anti-Ukrainian government of Arsenius Yatzenuk, once again, would seem to be the better government of Groysman. I want to address the Prime Minister from this rostrum. Mr. Prime Minister, look who's in the Ministry of Finance doesn't understand the administration of Ukraine. Because the budget is 17, in that project we're looking at, in the 17th year, there's again a problem with funding vocational and technical education and those schools that are in cities of regional importance. I've got a town called Red Town in the county. Three vocational and technical schools don't have funding last year, this one, more specifically, and they don't have funding next year. Not many of you, apart from the Budget Act -- 5000 -- there are three other interesting laws, which are probably not yet in the People's Deputies, are changes to the Budget Code, 5131. Thank God, the Health Committee unanimously proposed that this law be rejected. Because there are two catastrophic norms, including local budgets. The first rule is to pass on, think about, the TB epidemic in Ukraine, all the sanatoriums and children, including the financing of local budgets. What local budgets will be able to finance them? People are good, come on! Next, question number two. This is 89 articles, including 103 articles on the transfer of utilities, the financing of utilities to local budgets, and even the figure. In fact, it's been recalculated, except again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u127	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u128	Except for the cities of regional importance. I ask you to immediately review these figures and make appropriate adjustments. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. Please invite Deputy Parasuk to prepare for Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u130	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to comment on what happened on 112 yesterday. A lot of people think it's wrong on some level. Maybe so, but if there was no war in our country, if we didn't lose our brothers in the war every day. And here I have a conviction with regard to all the general prosecutors who were after the course, to all the heads of the B.S.A. that were after Maidan, in general, to all the leaders of the power structures that did not punish such as Wilcule, such as Boyko. Yes, they landed at one time, they were afraid, they were already preparing planes to escape, but then they regained their position. Now, at this point in time, they don't have enough of what they're spilling again, as if they're brainwashing people with their propaganda, and they're also in open form disrespecting what's sacred to us -- the Mayan and the East War. They're piling up our heroes again. They're only allowed one thing -- that the President is just making a deal with them right now, that he just shook their hand. You know, our criticism is different. I criticize the President because I want my country to change, to exercise its constitutional rights, to protect its people and to be friends with its people. And Wilkull is doing everything he can to regain power in Ukraine and surrender our state to Russia. That's the difference between our criticism. But I know we're going to win, because on our side is the truth. We've decommunized, we've multiplied them all by zero. Their ideology has left us high and we are standing still. And today he's not in the hall because he's not coming here because there are guys under the walls of Parliament who want to ask him questions, and he's afraid of them. And I'm sure that one day we're going to run for the blue mountains where he belongs, and he's going to be among the same psychos that he is going to be leading his propaganda. This is my dream, and I know it's going to happen. To the Attorney General of the Ukrainian Security Service, please review his statement yesterday. And I'm sure you'll find there will be a lot of statements that conflict with Ukraine's national interests. As far as I'm concerned. I'm a man, I'm a fighter, I'm a fighter of the Dnipro-1 battalion, I'm a ranger, and I'm not going to be called an unfinished imbecile, and I'm not doing anything but a playground. So every time I do that, I will answer those words. And you can love me, you can not love me, I have the truth, and I love her, I have the pride, I love her, and I have the dignity, I love her too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u131	Thank you. Still, I urge all my colleagues to pursue political culture and ethics. I'm asking Mr. Shurma to use the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u132	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. I am today, without seeing that we are experiencing very difficult times, not only economic but also political, I am convinced that the problems that exist today in medicine can unite political elites. Why? Because medicine is life and death. And today, regardless of the political beliefs that a person believes in, from his economic situation, everyone is sick, everyone wants to be alive and healthy, and they do not want to die. What we have today. A very strange situation is that when positive things go on, there is some responsibility for all the benefits and benefits, not for the whole Parliament, but for those who call themselves the majority. But then I would ask the same majority to take on not only all the positives, but also all the troubles that exist today. There are health problems today. You see what's going on. Government of Reformers. A wonderful specialist came to us from the United States for the education of historians, Georgians by nationality, and became a citizen of Ukraine, Kvjetashvili. Everyone's talking about reforms, what do we have today? It turns out that when reformers budgeted for 2016, they didn't calculate the increase in tariffs. And today, between 100 million and 150 million are missing in every area. And today’s government does not know where to find the money to think about the prospect. Specific examples, see in Lviv was one of the best perinatal centers, it needs to be upgraded. The previous government said he was going to issue money and he said he was going to issue money, there is no money today, there is no perinatal center, and today there is no district government in the hostages that can't solve this issue, but no one wants to solve the changes and additions to the budget. Today, the committee voted to redistribute 147 million that were allocated to OHMATDIT, and what is this planned work? What is this health - care reform when 150 million people do not use 150 million children in a treatment clinic across Ukraine? And now they're redistributing 15 million into each area, and the money will not be used, and they'll make the local administrators guilty again. The doctors, I'm tired of talking -- this is a matter for the Security and Prosecutor's Office, there are no drugs for 2015 to date. The Prime Minister gave the order, do you think anything was done? Zero. I'll tell you about another zero, this year there's no drug purchased, in 2016 there's no drug available, 5 billion won, and on the nose of 2017. He asks, once again, where is the money being stored, and where is the medicine? There's no cure. Today, one thing you need to understand is that you have a mother. It is important to know the problems of traveling to the region, but it is not the way the minister does his job. A comforter will come when no one knows, looks, and drives back, as it was in the Lviv region. You want to know the problems, declare your visits, meet people, and solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u133	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Eutuszek, or Yvchenko, which one of you will speak? Mr. Yvchenko is speaking, please. They've captured the rostrum, but it's only on the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! You know, taking that word and making a statement made us feel that way. We are all witnesses that in recent weeks an unprecedented dirty fight has been waged against the Fatherland party. Usually, our underground manifest opponents lead them by means of lies and falsifications. We feel for their intelligence. Polytechnologists of some political forces have no argument as to the consistent and responsible position of the Fatherland Party in the fight for fair tariffs and affordable energy prices. And that's why in the information space there are, for example, rough fakes from the "Fatherland" party that seem to be about breaking the hot season, it's laughter and sin, as the classic used to say, "Once upon a time are more valuable, but there are none." All of this is linked to the discrediting of the government and the President. We categorically disprove such falsehoods and condemn such methods of fighting. Ladies and gentlemen, as the people say, don't waste, godfather, power, don't do anything stupid, because all branches of government are discredited to an irresistible limit, let's work together on the state budget with maximum social cost savings and overcoming the tariff genocide of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u135	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Honorable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people. In fact, there was a recent election to the local authorities. I want to say that the authors of this pasquila, which is already being distributed in the areas of Ukraine, did not take one thing into account: more than 100 subjects of authority in elections to local authorities such as city heads, secretaries elected from the All-Ukrainian Motherland Association, which means that in those territorial communities where they were elected, they are fully responsible for the heating season. As the city’s head and manager of the local public administration, I have been able to clearly understand these powers until recently, because it is at the performances that the beginning of the heating season, the city’s own head and composition of the execution, and the MPs are responsible for the heating season. So this pascville, written by completely unreasonable people, just shows that they didn't take this thing into account, because a large army of local council deputies and city heads elected from Fatherland and secretaries, who are also performers in the territorial communities, are responsible for the hot season. We're clearly saying that this is a planned action against Fatherland. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u136	Thank you, dear colleagues. I continue to hold our Parliament for two more minutes. And please, the last one minute, because we've already exaggerated our discussion and performances. This is Mr. Lechchenko. One minute, please. Yes, please, Mr. Lechchenk. Mr. Leschenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u137	I want to take this opportunity to broadcast the Radio Freedom material that came out yesterday on the air of the First National, and it's also available on the Internet: the material on how Ukrainian corrupt MPs return from their vacation by private jets to Kiev. This material is about how Ukrainian corruptioners do not declare their property and how, in parallel at this time, the initiative is born to kill electronic declaration by introducing a so-called zero declaration, a declaration that will allow all corruptioners to declare their money once -- and thus legalize all that they have taken out of the Ukrainian economy for many years, from the pockets of Ukrainian citizens. Please monitor your hands, follow the Supreme Council Rules, and follow the Committees of the Supreme Council. This initiative will be pushed as soon as possible so that there will be a zero declaration that will legalize the shadow costs -- money that has been earned by dishonest means and then invested in Ukrainian politics. This is the prospect of the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u138	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u139	This is the prospect of the near future, and this is the plan that was born in the Presidential Administration. The President's administration, which doesn't want to fight corruption, and which has only one goal: to continue self-enrichment on the Ukrainian people, on the Ukrainian economy, for the purpose of doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-23-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. All those who signed up for the speech today had the opportunity to use the parliamentary rostrum. Thank you all for taking part in today’s session. Dear colleagues, let me remind you all that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. I hope that everyone will work actively in their districts, visit the regions of Ukraine. And I'm talking to the voters. Know that the following week the MPs have to work in the regions. There you can find them. Dear colleagues, September 27th we have an extremely important parliamentary action. There will be special parliamentary hearings on Tuesday at 3 p.m. in the Supreme Council session hall on the theme "The 75th anniversary of Baba Jar's tragedy: history lessons and modernity." Please invite all factions to participate. And I want to remind you that we will also meet high-ranking parliamentary, international government delegations from other parts of the world. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, October 4, at 10 a.m. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, today, I declare closed. Good-bye.
