ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please come into the hall, take your seats, get ready for registration. Dear colleagues, today I have a final meeting with a mission representative, the Head of Mission of the European Parliament as part of an assessment mission of the needs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with Mr. Pete Cox. I would like to express and convey his gratitude to all the leaders of the factions, the groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, the people's deputies who have cooperated fruitfully in order to assess the qualitative assessment of the needs of the transformation of the Ukrainian Parliament into a real European Parliament. At the end of this month, this report will be presented jointly at the "Ukraine Week" in Brussels, and we will be able to take concerted action with you in connection with the introduction of current practices into our work, the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Today, dear colleagues, I said in the briefing, and I want to say it again. I said that, and I want to repeat it now in the Hall, noble colleagues, not to notice that we are going into a serious political crisis is simply impossible. To pretend nothing's happening, I don't think it's acceptable. It is another challenge for Ukrainian politicians to give an adequate answer, not a pianist one, but an adequate response to what we will do with you to get out of this crisis, to ensure the development of the country and to give people a very clear answer as to how they will live tomorrow and tomorrow, because it is impossible to live in uncertainty and constant depression. So I think today is our joint task: to propose a way out of this situation. The first is to update the coalition agreement and plan of action. The second is to update the government under the action plan. But a concrete plan of action, not some plan of something going to change, but very clear positions. To shoulder the responsibility of those who want to work in the new government. And I think we need to address not only the government's issues, but also finally put a dot on the issues of CVA, the judicial system, to strengthen institutionally all the directions that we have today that are too weak. So this is our joint task with you, and as Head of the Supreme Council, I will continue to consult with all political parties to find this way out of the difficult situation we are in today. So, dear colleagues, I urge everyone to take a responsible position and to make responsible decisions. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. Let's register. [[10:03:47]] Registered -305 All right, five minutes. Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to prepare for re-entry. The factions are returning from the meeting. Please turn on the registration system, the "Race" system. [[10:07:00]] 332 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine I hereby announce the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the morning plenary session open. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I wish to inform you, in good tradition, that we welcome the nominees. Today, our colleague, Sergey Ivanovich Skuratowski, is a national deputy of Ukraine. Let's welcome him. Welcome, Sergey Ivanovich. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, two factions have come to announce a recess at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely the Radical Party of Oleg Laska and the Self-Help faction. There is a request to replace this with a three-minute statement and a recess. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, Ukraine and parliament are in a deep political crisis as a result of their inactivity. We are not just witnessing a coalition crisis, we are witnessing a deep crisis of power. The reasons for this crisis are obvious: Dissuasiveness because of the authority’s declaration of her affairs. Yesterday's statement by Minister of Economic Development of Abromavichus, when he resigned, accusing the closest person to the President of corruption, is our colleague Igor Kononek, an extremely powerful signal not only for Ukrainian society and for the whole world, but, above all, for President Prashenko's sake. It's a test to match the President's statements, the declarations to fight corruption with his real affairs. Abromachius resigned because he accuses our colleague Igor Kononek of corruption, abuse, and lobbying for the appointments of people to certain places of bread. To pretend that nothing happened, not to pay attention to it, is only to deepen the crisis that will lead to the collapse of the coalition, to the early parliamentary elections, to the resignation of today's leaders, and, as a result, to destabilize the situation in Ukraine, to the rematch of the Yanuković gang. I'm paying attention to Ukrainian society, and I'm paying attention to Ukrainian politics that what's happening now is threatening the future of the country, the national security of the country, the European vector of the country. Why? It is not Putin's fault that the authorities declare reforms and do not carry them out, that Putin is not guilty of telling us about the fight against corruption, and in fact the authorities continue to engage in corruption, not Putin's fault that millions of people, millions of Ukrainians, have become beggars as a result of the policies of today's government. I'm addressing the President, the government, the parliamentary majority. Surrender! Your policy leads to the split of the country, your policy leads to the destruction of Ukraine's future. I'm talking to a colleague of Igor Connonck who's in the hall right now and he can hear me. You've been accused of corruption, accused of abuse. Igor, they say you're a normal person as a human being, but you're the business partner of President Dustenk, you've been accused of corruption, you've put together a mandate as an MP, and you've been given the opportunity to investigate the charges you've made, be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u3	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u4	Be honest, do not hide behind the mandate, do not hide behind the MP's inviolability, allow the anti-corruption bureau to investigate charges against you. I'm addressing President Dusty. Dear Peter Alexiovich, on the right Connonka is your test. If you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, you've already taken four minutes. Four minutes, Oleg Valeriyovich. 30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u6	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I appeal to you not to cover my old friend and business partner Igor Kononek. Allowing us to investigate the matter and show the world that we are really fighting corruption, not just words.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u7	Please, this is a faction. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! We are deeply grateful to the faction leader, whose deputies are repeatedly detained in the heat of bribes, for reminding us of the need to fight corruption. But it's far more serious than the slogan of "Go on Money, Give 15 grand for an invitation." It's really systemic. First, yesterday's declaration of resignation of Abromavichus is a very bad signal for the entire system of the parliamentary-presidential republic and in general for Ukraine's reform course. It's really a very bad sign. Today we gathered a faction, invited the Minister of Economics to join her. Sadly, he stated that he was in a hospital and had not arrived. However, the previous decision of the faction is that we support Connon's move, which personally made an application to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, requiring that the charges brought against it be checked and Connon's willingness to answer legally if established.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u9	Please finish, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u10	The other one. Our faction does not consider it possible to defer the Minister of Economy, Abromavichus, to a review of the resignation of the government as a whole. Third. We require the Prime Minister to conduct open staff competitions for 30 state-owned enterprises, which are the main source of corruption throughout the country, within a month. This issue, which is debated so much and which is at the root of the statement by Abromavichus, must be resolved by the head of the government within the month. Finally, it is not the attitude of the factions that should come, but that of the professionals, the unparty ones, who will make a profit in the State’s execution. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u11	Colleagues, for justice's sake, good, good. Please, Maxim Burbak. I don't know, he did. Did they call you? Did they call you? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, what are we going to do now? Stop. Regulation. It's a deal. There are two factions of Fatherland and Self-Help, as well. Maksim Yuriovich, Maksim Yuriovich. Please report, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, as political statements are being exchanged, the state is breaking down the implementation of the Natural Gas Market Act. On the verge of default, we now have a merger of coowners of apartment buildings, heating companies, and gas supply companies, which, according to the codes approved by the national commission, have been required to make a preliminary payment for the transport of natural gas since February of this month. I've got the first FSBs they've already offered today, if they don't pre-account for transporting gas, they're offered to disconnect themselves from the gas grids and prepare for sealing. Dear colleagues, I ask you all, your support, that for today's appeal by the Chief of the Supreme Council to the NCREKP, there be a call for urgent changes to the Code of Transport for Gas in part of the cancellation of the requirement of prior payment for transport of natural gas. What's actually going on? It says that 35 percent of the apartments today have subsidies and the rest are on the verge of survival. How can people who have not yet received a salary for gas for fierce, faithful, ferocious wages be expected before transporting gas? Ladies and gentlemen, now to each and every one of you, this kind of appeal will begin in the regions. There's been an accident, you know, for the execution of the codex. I ask you all to support such a request from the Supreme Council. And please, mine. This speech is to be considered as such. What's going on? It is simply a union of coowners that demands to become. join the terms of the contract and. which is public, and at the same time pay for the gas. Not every OSB can fight this machine on its own. We have to protect the people, the people who are supposed to be pre-financing gas transport today. Please support this initiative today and appeal on behalf of the Supreme Council for annulment. require the NCRECR to cancel the previous cost of transporting gas to FSBs, heat and gas-supply companies, which are actually translated into the final consumer, the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u13	Thank you. I want to inform you that I have already entrusted the Supreme Council apparatus with this address, and I have already contacted NAC. But I'm going to sign this statement, and I don't think we should vote. Do you support me? And with the demand to settle this situation immediately. Yeah. Please. I'll sign it today. I'm tasked with preparing such an address, agreeing with the speaker and giving me an immediate signature. My colleagues, I have a question. You and I didn't vote him out physically. Attention! We're with you on December 25. Attention! On December 25, we approved the Public Procurement Act (3559). Remember, the whole room applauded that he had been approved. There were two standards that contradicted each other. The committee has now prepared a reconciliation, and in the framework of 131 articles, 131, I am submitting these amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I need your vote. We discussed the factions at the last meeting. If necessary, I am ready to give the floor again to Ivanchuk, the head of the committee, to brief him. Give me your word? Andrew Ivanchuk, 3559, amendment 131, please inform the MPs. It's kind of agreed. All I ask is that you take your seats. Honourable People's Deputies, to vote in favour of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We have no right today not to make an effective decision. The law must be signed and entered into force on April 1, because everyone needs to be prepared. We've corrected all the inaccuracies, all the disagreements have been settled, and after the 131st article, we've made all the decisions. Volodymyr Borisovich, I urge you, we cannot back down today from accepting these changes and refinements. Because you have to sign the law and give it to the President, and from April 1st we have to go to electronic purchase. You can see how this model works transparently: half a billion in less than six months saved. Thank you for your attention. I very much ask all factions and groups to support this issue without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u15	Colleagues, please support. Attention! Take your seats. An amendment in the order of 131 articles to the Public Procurement Act will allow me to sign this law and send it to the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you to back me up. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Colleagues, please, I ask you to vote and support this amendment. That's not a 131-a discussion. Colleagues, please support. Take your seats. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? The Public Procurement Act, prepared by the Committee, is amended in article 131. Are you guys ready? Please take your seats. Please take your seats. Let's vote 3559 in order to settle the amendment 131, let's be able to sign this law anti-corruption. I'm asking you to support all the national MPs. We're voting on the alarm. Please support 3559, we vote, please support. [[10:22:31]] For 223 Colleagues, 223 votes. I'm stressing again, I see it was a rating vote. I ask everyone to support me, but very carefully, please, colleagues. Ready? Article 131 of the Rules does not provide for discussion on the amendment, and it is necessary to discuss it on the committee. Once again, please vote on 131 articles, amendment to the Public Procurement Act, public procurement. Vote. We didn't vote. We vote 3559, 131 amendments. May I put it to a vote? In general, please support this amendment. Please vote, please support everyone. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please support everyone. [[10:23:28]] For 227 You got it. You got it. I'll sign the law, I'll send it to the President. Let's move on, dear fellows. Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, as we know with you, there is a problem that needs to be addressed in terms of financing vocational and technical education. We've worked with you on this issue on the committee, now there are five bills that are alternative, and I suggest you start looking into it. But first, we're going to make changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code, that's 3831, 2831-1-2-3-4 respectively, and 5. We will continue to go to the vote. I have an offer to consider these bills in a simplified manner. All the authors will speak, then there'll be a general report to the committee and we'll exchange our thoughts for and against this bill. Is there no objection? Please support for 3831, -1-2-3-4-5. Please vote, colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. Please be supportive. For short, there are five bills. [[10:24:59]] For 180. The decision has been made. Please, Victor Bondar, I understand, 3831. Please, a national MP. Please, National Deputy Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Oleg Kulinic, 147 constituency, MP's Rebirth Party, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, the financing of vocational education has become a huge problem for local councils, and this applies to every area. The cost of local budgets for its funding is catastrophic, for around 6 billion dollars a year is needed throughout the country. I think that's understood by every deputy who works in a district who communicates with communities that communicate with representatives of the trades sector. That is why this problem must be resolved immediately by all together, regardless of political power and political preferences. Bill 3831-1 is systematically related to Bill 3831-2. We propose to cancel article 89 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, introduced on 1 January 2016, which includes expenditure on vocational and technical education, including expenditure on the budget of cities of regional importance, including district budgets. We also propose to introduce a new transfer from the state budget to local budgets in the form of a subsidy for the preparation of labour. And the cost of this subsidy is to be provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the State Budget within a month of the Act becoming effective. Fellow Members of Parliament, the Rebirth Party Group, we urge you to support this project and preserve the state support for the vocational and technical education system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Please take your place. Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We understand that it is necessary to reform vocational and technical education, but it has to be civilized, planned, consistent with regional labour markets with all the functions that rely on vocational and technical education. So our proposal, which is consistent with most of the factions, is to make two major changes to the budget code. The first change, the management and funding of trade and technology can be done only from cities of district centers that are indeed more budgeted, as well as all the other higher ones. All other professional institutions have to be financed from the field level. So we rule out cities of regional importance, we leave management only at district centers and at district level. The second position, within the framework of vocational and technical education, children get general secondary education, which means that they have to be supported by education subsidies, from where they finance general secondary education for every child in Ukraine. Therefore, this educational subsidy is also included in the Budget Code. And another subsidy has to be called to support the preparation of the labour force. This means that it will not be fully covered by this preparation, it will be implemented from the budgets of the district level and the cities of the district centers. But in part this subsidy is also needed because there are acutely deficient specialties. The state also has the right to regulate how.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u19	Finish up, please, Lilia Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u20	The preparation of which workforces need to be supported. Therefore, I ask you to uphold this law. We think it's the law that gives us systemic solutions so that we can continue to reform vocational and technical education in a calm, sustainable and intelligent way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u21	Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u22	Once again, I reported Law 3831-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, the situation that first took place in 20 years of independence in Ukraine, when vocational and technical education is actually on the verge of survival, and funding has been transferred instead of a government budget to local budgets, it's ridiculous at all. And local budgets don't have the ability to finance that. And so all these kids who are learning right now can just go out, and the worst part is to increase crime, unemployment and all that. I mean, it's a big request to support a law that provides for the re-financing of vocational and technical education institutions, based on state budget subsidies to district budgets. I want to say, for example, Umani, where there are two of these colleges, and there are a lot of people learning, and a very large teaching state. And if this is closed, it's actually thousands of unemployed. Once again, I ask everyone, regardless of political views, to mobilize and support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mishchenko, Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u26	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. This is called "adopt the laws of the night" without reading them. So that we can now do and adopt reforms to keep the country moving to Europe, we are now doing what is called "correction of mistakes." I think that what the majority and the coalition have done by adopting the budget, not only by destroying the system of technical institutions and other measures, but also other areas of life. There's an old anecdote like this when one man asks another, "What kind of beautiful pets do you have?" He says, "I probably have fish fish." And he says, "Why fish fish?" – "And they die quietly." This tells us that the budget that destroyed the professional and technical institutions by self-removing from their funding was actually watched, and whether these workers would be these aquarium fishes. But believe me, after the Dignity Revolution in this country, there will be no more fish: neither Minister of Economy nor Education nor Farmers. Because if they come under the Cabinet of Ministers or under the House of 100 combines or tractors, you'll see what happens with this country, with this Parliament. So I think that if you've made mistakes and now you're seeing it happen in a society of turmoil, let's correct them immediately and in other fields.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u27	Please, Mikhailo Golovko, Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u28	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a 3831-5d bill that is certainly different from those bills that my fellow MPs have put forward, that he is fully proposing to hand over a vocational and technical education school to finance from the state budget. Not from the district budgets, not from the city, but from the state. I want to stress that this is a question and this is why we are here today and we are voting, and we are considering this big issue because we have approved this shameful budget. The budget is antisocial, a budget that has undermined the financing of education. Medicine, social benefits to the population, a budget that virtually destroys local self-government. We're talking about decentralization, but decentralization is not about passing -- live as you know, finance medicine yourself, finance your education, finance your own roads, and all of these costs will go to the center of Kiev. Decentralization is the correct distribution of both budget revenue and tax revenue and expenditure. Sadly, we did not see that. Vocational and technical education is very important, and it's not a matter of local self-government, it's a matter of state and state security. Because the training of professional personnel, especially locksmiths, plumbers, we don't have cookers, and we don't have them soon, because we're mass-released economists, lawyers and so on. And it's impossible to find a crane today, and people are really leaving Ukraine in search of a job abroad, because it's impossible to realize themselves here. And that's why the task of the state is to put the emphasis right, to provide education, and to give it to young people. This is especially true of families. Unsecured families are children because they are unable to learn in expensive educational institutions. And that's why we have to give this 6 billion-dollar grant from the State budget, and we're going to save jobs, and we're going to teach our children that are getting vocational and technical education in order to work in those areas that Ukraine needs very much today, and, of course, not only Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, the drafts have been completed. Please sign up: two for, two against. Two for, two against, please sign in. Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u30	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm not going to get tired of going to this rostrum and saying the same thing, that the procedure for adopting any of the bills that we're looking at here is equally important to the very essence of the bill. It is because, year after year, the government that came after Maidan does not submit the State Budget Act to this Parliament, precisely because we tolerate it and vote in favour of this law in violation of the procedure provided for in the Rules, and there are cases that we should then not start for the second month, but to correct those mistakes that were already there. Questions from the C.E.U. The local budgets were all over the trades. What's wrong? And the situation is that in some district centers, the PTU budget is 70 percent or even 80 percent of the city’s budget for a year. This situation in Ostroza, such a situation in Cologne, is the situation in all other cities in Ukraine. Why did this happen? And this happened for one simple reason, that instead of listening to the "Paternity" faction that said let's look at the budget according to the procedure, we're not considering the procedure. We're hearing from the patriotic forces of the accusation that we're destroying the coalition, that we're the hand of the Kremlin and all that nonsense, and then with our heads down here, we're correcting these mistakes. So, of course, these laws need to be voted on, and the Fatherland is going to vote. But let us listen to the right suggestions made to this Parliament, not when errors need to be corrected, but when they need to be made in accordance with the Constitution and the Supreme Council’s Rules. We're voting for CTU. And we're going to correct these mistakes both with regard to agrarians and pensioners, and with regard to all the other issues that today are not corrected by this budget continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u31	People's MP, "The Rebirth Party." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u32	Good day to you all. Vasily Gulyaev, Rebirth Party Group, 140 constituency, Odessa Region. The Rebirth Group will support all the laws that will be adopted under the WTO, but of course I would like to see them return from the State budget, because today the regional budgets will not be able to do so either. And we believe that such a mistake has, of course, been made and that it must be corrected. To date, many children may be left without education. What can this lead to? Because PTU mainly teaches underprivileged children, orphans. Of course, all deputies must consolidate on this issue and make the right decision. And of course, we need a PTU, but we need to be able to secure it from the State budget, and for that, the Rebirth party will vote and the team of the Rebirth Party will support any legislation that will allow CTU to continue to work and receive a scholarship to children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u33	Please, Igor Nasalik, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u34	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear friends, first of all, I would like to say that the Peter Prashenko faction supports these bills. But I would like a little time tour. First of all, before the budget was adopted, I was talking about what would lead to a complete imbalance. Sadly, they did not listen to her. I want to support the BUT faction MP that the procedure that we're taking in the budget is unacceptable. And it is it that will cause the standards and problems that we have today. By stopping at CTU, he should say that not only is there a great deal of turnout from all corners of Ukraine, not just Colomia, Calus (France) and eastern Ukraine, which have put local budgets on the verge of survival in terms of financing CTU. But not only do we lose those children who are under-supplyed, we lose a whole field of welders, builders, the very professional specialties that our country needs so far. So once again, I want to confirm that the Peter Prashenko faction supports this bill in order to completely eliminate this imbalance. In addition, I would like to emphasize that funding should go through subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Fedoruk Mikola Trohimovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u36	Please give it to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u37	Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support Bill 3831-2, because it is more complex and comprehensive and deals with this problem. But what I'd like to say is that the responsible faction of the People's Front, if the coalition government is supporting everything, is still addressing some of our colleagues from other factions who make loud statements and translate internal fractional problems into another. On a healthy head that we will still support every minister who is responsible and working professionally on his job. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that Minister Abromavichus supported the idea of privatizing and launching a process of privatization of large enterprises in order to overcome political corruption and stop the distribution of spheres of influence on certain state-owned enterprises with their heads assigned there. And then we have to support and vote for privatization and start this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u39	Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. Papiev, then Vladimir Litwin in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I am now addressing representatives of the ruling coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, where were you when you voted on the Ukrainian State Budget Act? Why did you just mention, and you're so worried about the problem of vocational and technical education and those kids who are learning today? I want to remind you that these are mostly children of socially vulnerable families, children of low-income families, children of orphans. You've already reached the children, you already want to destroy the future of Ukraine at all. Where's your conscience? And we call you to conscience, and when you correct mistakes, you must first come and repent and apologize to the Ukrainian people. Do Not Destroy Ukraine’s Future! Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block has consistently opposed this norm, and we will uphold this law and protect vocational and technical education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u41	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, one minute. Then Markevich, Ukrainian National Deputy of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u42	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! A little bit of statistics on the subject that we're discussing. Schools: 392,000 students are being trained. If you even take cities of district importance without district centers, it's 174 thousand. But please listen to what these children are: 8,000 400 orphans, 2,000 600 mentally retarded, almost 25,000 out of every single family, 3,000 out of every family that's in trouble, 9,000 out of every family that's underprivileged. And what you did when you accepted the budget, you committed a crime over the next generations. Now there are curses and groanings trying to fix it, and the loudest of them are those who blindly made the decision. We cannot vote today in favour of half the decision that makes the wording: partly to support the preparation. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u43	Please finish, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u44	I suggest, fellow professors, we need to find 5 billion and restore the full subsidy for the operation of vocational schools. Costs are these. And I would ask you not to abuse such families and children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I invite you to the floor, National Deputy Markevich of Self-Help. And I would like to remind you, colleagues, before the National MP speaks, at 11 o'clock we will vote with you for the order of the day session, yesterday we have decided with you that we will vote. So please, at 11 o'clock, I'll do it, just like we said yesterday. Please, National Deputy Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u46	Markevich, Self-Help faction. Our faction will support Bill 3831-2. In doing so, we would like to pay attention. First. The Kabmin, a huge request, finally begin to make normal laws so that after a week, a month, two months, we don't start to correct mistakes. Second. I have a great offer to all of us to stop voting for the reduced procedure. The fact that we've been giving the bill for five minutes also makes it possible to go outside with enough raw food, yes. And the third moment. To Minfin, after the adoption of this bill, we ask you to proceed immediately with the development of an instruction, because some PTUs will be financed from different budgets so that there will be no confusion, and we will not correct these mistakes in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Oleg Light Radical Party, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u48	The transfer to the local budgets of the vocational and technical education system means putting a cross on it. This shows the absence in Ukraine of a long - term strategy and policy aimed at cultivation to support productive professions. We don't have a carpenter, a bricklayer, a tractorist, or other people in the workplace today, all want to be lawyers, economists, sociologists. Who will build the country? Who Will Feed the Country? If we want to have a future, we have to bet on our own industry, on our own agricultural production. And in this context, I would like to pay attention to both the government and the parliamentary majority that agrarian science is being pursued today. Agrarian science spending has been catastrophically reduced, even compared to last year, thousands of people, scientists, are out of work. Ukraine is an agricultural country. We have to feed the whole world, not destroy the system of vocational education or agrarian science.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, the final word of the People's Chamber of Parliament, and let's proceed to the vote, colleague, please. And then from the committee it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the vote of 3831-2. It's the most balanced bill that's worked with the budget committee, with the Committee on Science and Education, and it's legally able to provide 2 billion dollars to finance vocational and technical education. So we agree that the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine should have a clear strategic vision of vocational technical education. But this is a strategy problem. Today, we have to decide urgently that our children will receive scholarships, that our teachers who work at PTU will receive a salary. And so we're going to urgently solve this issue. But I'm talking to MON again. Please resolve the issue, this cannot be passed on to local PTU budgets. This is the strategic sector of the education system and the economy of Ukraine in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u51	Please, from the Sergei Melnik Committee. Sergey Ivanovich, please. And we're taking our seats for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u52	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! As we agreed, given that the adoption of the State budget did not find the only algorithm to address the issue of financing vocational technical education, a joint meeting of the Committee on Education, the Budget Committee and the Ministry of Education was held, a funding algorithm was found that is supported by all vocational and technical education. The educational component is funded by educational subsidies and Law 3831-3 provides a solution to this issue. A subsidy to support vocational education is decided on the basis of stables. The committee therefore decided, taking into account that Bill 3831-2, together with Bill 3830-3, provided a comprehensive solution to the issue. The committee adopted this decision: recommending Bill 3831-2 to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole as a law. If this bill is adopted, other alternative bills lose their relevance. Thank you for your attention. Please support the complex 3831-2 and 3830-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now we're going to solve an extremely important question and I'm going to ask for a consolidated support here. All the bills are good, they're all good, but we need to stop at one in order to settle this issue. Once again, as the national deputies enter the Supreme Council Hall, what I want to say is that the local authorities will influence the quality of technical education, that's right. The area, the cities, the district centers -- they can do it, and they can do it together with businesses, and they'll teach you good footage. But what's allowed even these PTUs to go to small communities, here's the problem. And now we have to correct this as we see in the concept of reform of local self-government, which the government has already approved in 2014. So please, everyone take your seats now and in order to arrive. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. I'll put the vote in order of arrival. Thirty seconds, Anatoly Hirschfeld. I am. Maybe something in fact? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I totally agree with everything that's been said. Please note one very important point: how many PTU participants are selected by area. Because I just got off the phone with Harkov and they say it's a few times less than it's been allocated before. Let's introduce, wait, at least listen, so that there's the same funding for a student of CTU by area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u55	I'm drawing your attention, please, to your group, and I thought there was something extra. It's the next one, by the way, the law, it's true. Dear colleagues, please, Victor Bondar, a minute. And let's finish, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to pay attention to five bills. Our bill, 3831-1, proposes to leave things the way it was before, that is, the financing of trade schools should be left in the country's budget, and not to go into the budgets of the area, the city, not to make a redistribution of funds there today, which there is, in fact, no. Because if other bills propose to finance the trades sector at the expense of district and city budgets, it says that we're going to have to withdraw these funds in district and city budgets from road repairs, from community tasks, and so on. In fact, we go into the pockets of urban and district communities again. Our bill, the Rebirth Party, proposes to finance trade and technology, as before, at the expense of Ukraine's state budget. Please support 3831-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. There's a harmonized draft law, 3831-2, which everyone has spoken. But I follow procedure, if there's no understanding in this matter, I have to put them to a series of ballots in the order of coming. Colleagues, I suggest we focus on the adoption of Law 3831-2. Attention! I'm voting on the basis of a total of 38. Attention! Once again: a consolidated draft of Law 3831-2. But there are 5 laws, and we have all 5 laws to pass. So 3831 please vote. [[10:56:02]] For-67 I didn't get the required number of votes: 67. 3831-1. [[10:56:26]] For 122 I didn't get the necessary amount. And now, dear colleagues, 3831-2. This is a joint bill that generalizes all proposals. And please support him. We're voting 3831-2 as a whole. Vote please, my friends. Please be supportive. Vote. It's consistent with the committee's decision. Vote. Let's go to the constitutional majority. Well! [[10:56:55]] For 305 Yes! The law's been passed. Colleagues, as I promised, I have to keep my word. One minute, no one's breaking up. 3855, this is the approval of the agenda, in accordance with yesterday's vote on my procedure. Please pay attention to the clock. Ten hours 57 minutes. I promised to do it by 11 o'clock. So, dear colleagues, please 3855. Let's move on! 3855, everyone, please take your seats. Approval of the order of the day according to my procedure. Everybody, get in the hall! 3855 is the approval of the order of the day session. We got 241 votes yesterday. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. 3855 is the approval of the agenda according to my proposal yesterday. All the laws. Those registered at the time of making the decisions are included in the agenda of the day’s session. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:58:14]] For 248 248 national deputies approved the order of the day’s session. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Yesterday it was 241. Dear colleagues, a draft law has been introduced for your consideration (registration number 3830, 3830-1, 3830-2, 3830-3, 3830-4 and 3830-5 respectively). There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[10:59:00]] For-182 Dear colleagues, 3830. Please report to national deputy Sergei Mishchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u58	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. I want to explain to all citizens of Ukraine and to those who think that we have now solved the problem of financing technical, vocational and technical schools, that we have solved it only in part because the law that we have voted on provides that only 2 billion out of 5 billion will be funded by subsidies and 3 billion will be put on local budgets. So we just shut down the storm for a while. What, then, will the local budgets survive and search again for these 3 billion to pay off the debt? All the other bills solved the problem. This bill and the committee bill, they're only partially suppressing the problem. You know, what we went after was the commercialization of education showed that there were 20 lawyers in one place and 40 lawyers in some city, but there was no electricity, there was no plumbing, there was no sewing. Now that we're at war, who's going to be collecting tanks at the Malishev factory? Who's gonna do the bullets, shells? Who will sew clothes for our army? Did you think about that? It's sabotage, direct sabotage. One should answer for this, for it is not the first branch to suffer. You know, there's such a delicious Ukrainian saying, maybe it's not very literary, but it's very tasty: spring will show you who's shitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u59	Please. Sergei Melnik. Please, Sergey Ivanovich. 3830-1. Please. Sergei Melnik, 3830-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support 3830-3. As I reported earlier, the adoption of these two bills will allow us to apply a perfectly correct algorithm for financing vocational and technical education. Of three levels: local budgets and two subsidies: educational subsidy – educational component and subsidy – to support professionals. That's how we're going to save the trade. Together, the Ministry of Education and local authorities will optimize, review the network, and have a three - level responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Victor Bondar. People's MP Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u62	Oleg Kulinic, MP of Rebirth, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! And once again, I want to emphasize that financing for vocational education is becoming a huge problem. And I think that Parliament is the only one who thinks that the funding mechanism set up in the State budget in 2016 is imperfect, it needs to be changed. It's precisely the MP's team of the Rebirth Party that we've been trying to solve this problem with our bill, 3830-2. So we proposed to exclude article 27 of the State Budget Act and return to the ordinary and understandable funding mechanism that existed until January 1, 2016, by way of a grant from the budget. Because this funding mechanism is close and understandable to the education community, it's been working in practice for years. There are currently no 6 billion in district budgets and budgets in cities for this funding. Understand, there is no such cost. We communicate with communities all the time, and we know this situation. But no matter what bill is voted on, we will vote, our "Rebirth Party" group, for all the bills to solve this problem today and immediately. So I support all the bills and our MPs, and we propose that we vote for everyone who gets the majority, and I think we can solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u63	National Deputy Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, of course, it would be good if we now found 5.8 billion in the state budget and gave it to vocational and technical education. All we have to do is live in real measure. We're in the process of reforming decentralization. We've given more revenue to cities, district centers, and they're greatly increasing their budgets, as well as coming to the district level. So let's actually plot what we can do, what we can support from the state budget, and what we have to do in places to create our own regional network of vocational and technical institutions. This bill, which we are proposing, is currently budgeted for funding in terms of education subsidies -- 870.9 million, and based on a stable fund, a subsidy to support the training of workers -- 997.9 million. Dear colleagues, there is another position that I would like to draw your attention to. We realize that if local self - government is optimized, property will also be managed. And it's important to us that this property is kept for educational purposes, and even if this property is leased, the rental costs have also come for the development of education in local budgets. So this is an additional position in this bill that is extremely important. And now. At 11 o’clock today, a government meeting begins. As long as the bill signed by the President is voted and put into effect, there will be plenty of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u65	Finish up, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u66	And we need to solve the problem already. So the government has decided to distribute 500 million dollars among the areas at the government meeting today, so that funding will start where these TFDs are not being funded and they will not receive the funds at the proper time. Hence, in connection with these funds that will be urgently allocated by the government today, we need to correct the appendix to this law, colleagues, because there is in addition a redistribution of funds to all inhabited areas. So we have a request, Mr. Head, honourable fellow members of the people's deputies, to vote on this law in the first reading, and the government has to make adjustments to the appendix according to the 500 million that will be immediately distributed to the Cabinet today. And then or tomorrow, maybe we can. Or even in the next plenary week, it's no longer in principle, we can vote in the second reading, because the urgent problem is, it will be solved by today's government decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u67	Yes, if we know what will be the decision of the government today, we can take immediate action as a basis and in general with consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u68	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u69	We'll do everything we can. The main legal administration, in conjunction with technical law, and we're going to put a stop to this. That's not the question. Right? With technical law. What are we gonna put off for a month or two? All 500 million, we're counting now. The budget committee is now formulating this proposal. In general, vote, of course. Guys, let's move on. Janko Anon Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head, dear friends! The difference between my bill is that I propose 100 percent of Ukraine's budget to grant a subsidy to the district budget to cover expenses, to maintain professional and technical institutions. I want to say that today, for example, in Umani, where I have a district, there are a lot of students in general from other areas and from other areas, but there is something to support the budget of the city of Umani. That's not right. And he doesn't have that opportunity, and there's never been any planned expenditure in the context of what's going to be transferred to the city budget. Therefore, I believe that this bill is the most balanced because it will allow the system to be restored once such institutions are financed by the budget, the state budget. I ask all concerned deputies to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u72	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the difference in our bill 3830-5d is that we do not propose to share responsibility and maintain vocational and technical schools from both the local budget and the state budget. We suggest that we go back to the way it was before 2015. Because vocational and technical education is the responsibility of the whole country, and this funding must be exclusively from the state budget. This problem that you created today, voting for this shameful budget, has put thousands of people at risk of being thrown out on the street, out of work, and really students are in danger of not getting the same scholarships. And I want to emphasize who goes to vocational and technical schools? They're children from disadvantaged families, they're children from low-income families who don't have the ability to study in expensive educational institutions. They're going to get that education, and then they're going to work at the most unnecessary jobs today, because the country really is a deficit, and it needs, and it's primarily plumbers, locksmiths, cookers, builders, shoplifters and so on. And that's why today's government task is to build this vocational and technical education. If we destroy it, there will be no countries tomorrow. Who will ensure the vitality of our nation? So it was, first of all, a huge mistake to vote for such a budget. And the fact that you've turned this funding over to the local budget is a disgrace. Because local budgets won't get education, medicine, roads, infrastructure, social services, everything from the local budget. What, then, is needed for this government, and why is our authority needed? I call, however, for our draft law, which only provides for the State budget to finance vocational and technical education, not from local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Amelchenko, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, given the acute problem of the financial provision of vocational and technical education institutions, which took place at the beginning of the year, the Committee on Budget Affairs quickly reviewed the draft amendments to the 2016 State budget for the settlement of this issue. This bill, in particular, includes a comprehensive solution to the problem proposed by Bill 3830, and I'm drawing your attention to 3 that is supported by the Scientific and Educational Committee. In particular, the bill plans to redistribute budgetary, inter-budgetary transfers that do not require additional sources from the state budget. So the legislative initiative is balanced. You heard the head of the committee on the government today, it will be discussed. But this does not solve the issue for the whole year, and so it partially relieves the stress of January’s month. So I hope that we will adopt the bill both as a basis and as a whole, and then introduce legal remedies, as provided for by valid legislation. And in general, the government needs, during the discussion, national MPs were unanimous in the overall position of a holistic approach to the development of vocational education and education in general. Because today, according to the Ministry of Education's question of how they unite educational institutions, 140 students from the Montenegrin National Financial and Economic University are going to Kiev, indignant that they have been illegally joined by the National University of Chernobyl. Therefore, in the education system as a whole and in Ukraine, order is needed, and we are all aware of that. Dear colleagues, at last, must.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u75	Finish up, please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, at last, we need to make sure that the Ministry of Economics gives a government order to the Ministry of Education, monitor and together they take care of the preparation of working personnel, middle-level personnel and high-quality personnel. If that is not the case, we will be constantly supporting educational institutions with you, not preparing professionals for the Ukrainian national economy. The adoption of the changes to the 2016 budget is an interim step, but the development of this education chain does not depend solely on the creation of a budget resource. First of all, since the modernization of the system itself, taking into account the needs of the labour market as well as separate budget institutions. In addition, the committee's consideration of the bill was supported by the proposal of National Deputy Musak Alexi Petrovich to complete the Final Provisions Bill by a clause on recognition of the validity of article 32 of the State Budget Act 2016. As a result of the committee's consideration, we made this decision: recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3830-3 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the committee's proposal in the letter of foundation. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should make the necessary legislative and technical clarifications when it comes to the signature of the relevant law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u77	Thirty seconds, finish up, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u78	to this project. If the Supreme Council supports Bill 3830-3, other alternative bills will become obsolete. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am. More precisely, the reports have been completed, now it's going to be two for, two against. I'm still suggesting that we now take the basis and, in general, 3830-3 as an agreed legal proposal, with some clarifications that will not conflict with the decision-making. Please sign up: two for, two for against, please sign up. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u80	The hammer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u81	Plenipotentiary of Molotock.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, I have repeatedly raised the issue of financing vocational and technical education, because this is a very urgent issue for local communities. I think that the transfer of PTU to the local level is an example of decentralization simulation, and the state is trying to get the funding out of it to the local level. We should not forget that secondary education is guaranteed by the Constitution of our State. Seventy-eight professional and technical institutions have been out of livelihoods since the 2016 budget. It's a payday, it's a utility fee. 15 percent of the students in vocational and technical institutions are children from single-parent families, orphans that you and I have denied you the opportunity to get an education. Today our nation's economy is in decline, but not believing in the economic recovery and potential of our children is at the top of anti-patriotism. And even though the decision does not provide for an election, more faithfully, it only provides for a third of the amount needed -- that's just the beginning. And I think we're going to continue to demand that the government solve this issue fully. Please support the bill agreed between the Budget Committee and the Education Committee, 3830-3. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u83	Please, National Deputy Sergei Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u84	Sergey Eutuszek, Plainshine, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I will continue the rhetoric of my colleague in the Krulk faction about what they might already be able to do, and they will wipe their feet about today's Parliament, about us, honourable fellow national MPs. I will talk about that the procedure should not be violated, nor should there be any mistakes in the very text of legislation, so that when we come afterwards after the disgraceful vote that was for the state budget, then sit down and correct those mistakes that we are correcting with you. I'm going to say that the "Paternity" faction is really going to support this bill. However, there is no such thing in the parliamentary-presidential state. It must be that even the sun rises only when there is a meeting of the Ukrainian Parliament! Only then will there be order if we follow procedure and everything else. What does the bill propose? The bill proposes to grant State budget subsidies to district budgets, Kiev budgets and city budgets worth 997,9 million dollars. Such a proposal provides for the inclusion of additional ones. does not provide for additional funds. More recently at the meeting, more faithfully, on the "hour of government," I addressed Mrs. Jaresko. He said, "Please tell me what you're going to do with vocational education." And she said, "We're going to monitor it. We're going to look at which education institutions that provide for education and vocational education are going to be cut short." So what I want to do is, in addition to the fact that the government is planning to shorten the data of educational institutions, I think we need to think about not allowing the transfer of property that is on the balance of government, of state ministries to the balance of district or local budgets. Because they're now turning to the heads of the vocational schools to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u85	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u86	In order not to allow the transfer to the district or local budgets, there is a high risk that the property will be diverted in an opaque way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u87	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo, "The Opposition Block." Instead of Papiev Bondar. Okay. Wait, wait! Well, Papiev doesn't say a word. Papiev!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u88	Please pass the word to the deputy of Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u89	Thank you. 57th District, Matvienkov, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! On this issue, perhaps the saddest part is that we are all well aware that we have lost our jobs. And so far, we've got expressions like "deriban," "received," and here's about a working man -- who with his hands really does create good for Ukraine, less and less words in this room and in the press, and in Ukraine in general, we have today. To date, we are talking about a situation that could hardly have happened. You know, right now I don't want to talk about the importance of these laws. Largely speaking, this Parliament will never be unemployed. Look what's going on. Budgets are adopted, no one reads, everything happens from the knees, with some emotion, under political purpose. Then, in the end, time passes, it turns out that people on the ground are in a critical situation, without wages, without prospects for development. After that, dusty statements begin from the rostrum, and we begin to correct the situation, and we go out and say to the people, "Oh, we've solved the question." Sorry, we spent two hours on what we were supposed to do when we adopted the budget, and if we didn't talk about it, I'd understand. But when we were talking and yelling here, you can't do that. No one, unfortunately, didn't hear or understand that. It was highly desirable that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and other members of the Government, who had pushed the majority to vote in favour of the budget, should sit here. That's one question. And the second question. Once again, two hours of time spent in Parliament is expensive. During that time, we could take a real step in the reform of the economy and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u90	Victor Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, dear friends, you know, we have a really unique situation today. The current power, an active coalition in two years, has been able to do everything possible to blow the state budget of Ukraine, and now, by 2016, they've come from a different position: let's put everything we can into local budgets. Eat money from the general budget, and let us eat up the money of local communities and district budgets. They transferred to places of financing trade, culture, educational programs, social programs, and so forth. And now, as dumpsters, they're trying to rewind the bill, somehow not transfer the funds from the state budget, but again from the district budgets to finance the trade and other measures that are taking place today. In fact, it's shoving, in fact, it's wrong, but you're making a look, and now all the factions of the coalition appear to be correcting the strategically large problem, and they've created the problem themselves. That's why "The Rebirth Party" calls you, is enough to rob a country. Last year, you got 500 billion dollars of credit, and you didn't find one percent of that amount -- 6 billion -- for the financing of trade and technology. My dears, enough to eat people's money. Enough of the next generation's debt. Sit down, stop, make a new normal economic policy. Do not go into the pockets of district, city, and district budgets. Don't go in there, don't translate your functions there. Because at such a pace, at such a pace, I see that you will soon translate into local budgets and pensions, as I said, and wages, and then you can only sit quietly in Kiev, eat up all the remaining public budget funds and not answer for anything. You like this kind of policy, and we see it. So "The Rebirth Party" is definitely against these approaches, definitely against your shullery, and let's solve the question. We'll vote on it. But it's still on the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Oles Long, "The Will of the People," one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u93	People's Deputy Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear colleagues, we are now addressing our speech, not in essence anymore, but in the form of what is happening in the hall. Yesterday, we watched everyone tell us about how they supported the economy minister. All day yesterday, we were discussing that he had decided to leave his post because they were not able to accept reform. I'm talking to the coalition. Dear friends! The most important law and reform of the minister of the economy on public procurement was successfully failed by the coalition today. And only after we and the other MPs had joined in was it voted. Although the votes in the coalition are enough. The same is happening with the Law on Vocational Training. Dear colleagues! Two hours of discussion. Lilia Grinevich is coming out of the rostrum, and everyone is standing behind her. Dear coalition! Dear colleagues! Less words, more business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u94	Yuri Solovay. Please, just a minute. Colleagues, let's vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u95	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! A chain of vocational education, more specifically, its absence, a proper absence from our country, is a serious obstacle to economic development. I've had this conversation with a lot of people who are interested in investment, but one of the main problems in this direction is that they don't have enough qualified personnel. And so when we talk about education reform, to my deep conviction, we need to talk not about reducing spending on the sector of vocational education, but about seriously increasing it. Rather, we need to take seriously the very higher education in our country. Because today we have a situation where people who have previously given their children to an economist and a lawyer are already wondering if it's worth doing, whether it's better to give them to a nurse, to a bricklayer, to a carpenter, and then, if everything is good and the child is learning, to pass them on to higher education. So I urge you to support Bill 3830-3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Parasuk, then Oleg Barna from the non-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, professionals, when you received the budget this year, no one mentioned it, but in half that we've almost destroyed the trades sector in principle. And now we can restore full funding. But no, we're back on the same rake. We're partially covering up and lowering the temperature, but it's going to be piling up again because there's no money. I don't know what kind of fool can destroy technical education during a war. You see, Ucrobanprom can't find normal specialists because they're not there. So I'm asking you very much, let's completely renovate the financing of the trade and next year we're going to see how to optimize it properly, not make these circuses that are now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u98	Thank you. Oleg Barna, please. Wait a minute. Come on, take your seats, dear fellows. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u99	Good afternoon, colleagues, Ukrainian people. Now we've all become witnesses when all the budget failures, the incompetence of the government that formed this budget, or the private firm that was paid the money, but now we have to correct it in an aural order. If we need such a government, time will tell. But why it happened to be improper planning, because we don't have a government, there was a lack of development strategy for the country, especially economic development, of the country's manufacturing sector. And if we're now saying that we're transferring funds to local budgets, we have to ask first if it's an equivalent transfer of funds and whether they fully correspond to the delegated authority. And if colleagues from the People's Front are talking about coalition responsibility, I'm primarily talking to them about coalition courage and intelligence, sending this government together coalitionly to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u100	We're risking it. Please, Alexander Singerkowski. Take your seats, colleagues. Please take your seats. We'll vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, when we vote 3830-3, we understand that it's just a fire fight. All that's happening right now is due to the lack of strategic vision of where vocational and technical education should be. And vocational and technical education is really within the strategic interest zone of the state. This means that we need to understand that funding for this education should be at the expense of the state budget, but it should be balanced with the interests of the communities, because we have vocational and technical schools that primarily serve the regions. So I'm just addressing, I'm addressing all of you, let's vote, let's close that problem that now exists, and we're going to have the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine understand and prepare balanced proposals for financing a professional and technical education system that is a strategic area in the development of the education system of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're taking our seats. I want to say one more thing. It's actually a strategic issue for the state. Now we have a state of vocational and technical education, to put it mildly unsatisfying. Thus, the system needs to make appropriate changes. And if local communities, and they as landowners are involved in the process, that's the only thing: they're going to invest in the quality of the personnel that vocational and technical education prepares. And that's obvious. But local budgets cannot be passed on to the village! What's not clear? And that was the main strategic error that was passed on to the very base level, where there was just no money. Now we will restore this justice to you. We're going to do it, we're going to deal with it in Parliament, and we're going to give it an opportunity to develop vocational education. I want the person who finished CTU to have high quality professional skills. That's what's important. And that's the kind of decision we're going to get. Otherwise, the system that is now in place will continue to dump it on the side of the CTU. Please, colleagues, please take your seats. I propose that, according to the proposals of the two committees: the profile committee, Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, and the budget committee, accept the 3,830 as a basis and as a whole with technical legal rights and plugin adjustments. Then it's all going to work out. Three. 3830-3. This is all going to coincide with the fact that we synchronized the question. As a committee editor, with technical law and plugin adjustments, that's what was just sounded by Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich and Sergey Melnik. And I think it's completely compatible with interests. And Vasil Vasilovich Amelchenko. That's right. Colleagues, then we vote 3,830, according to the proposal that was presented under the transcript, on the basis and in general. But I'd like everyone to prepare and take their seats. Tyre 3. Tyre 3. Ready? Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Three. Vote. Let's give the constitutional majority. [[11:35:50.]] For 297 Congratulations on the adoption of the law. But what I'm saying is, you know, whatever the turbulence in political life is, right now, Parliament, I've been saying this five minutes ago, Andry Volodymyrovich, is fully demonstrating the island of stability, which is capable of making state decisions, which I welcome you with. Colleagues, this needs to be confirmed further. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, colleagues, we discussed two questions with you yesterday. The law's been passed. 0080 between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the Second Development Policy Loan Agreement to implement economic reforms between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Japan International Cooperation Agency 0080. We discussed it yesterday, but we failed to accept it much yesterday. I ask that this draft Law on Ratification 0080 be voted on as a whole. Please take your seats. Fellows, come back. Are you ready to vote 3,830? Oh, 0080, sorry, 0080 as a whole. Ratified, passed the law. Vote? In general. Vote, please support everyone, vote. [[11:37:33]] For 267 One minute, and NATO. The law was passed: 267 votes. And 0082: Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on the Status of the Representation of NATO in Ukraine. I'd also like to support a total of 0082. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote, please. [[11:38:10]] For 251 Another proof of stability. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. We have Law 3854 with you: a draft Order to rename individual locations and districts. For a long time, this is a proposal from the Committee on Local Self-Government and State Building, 3854. Is there a need to report? You don't? It doesn't, does it? There are no conflict issues; this is essentially a technical decision by decision of the community, 3854. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no Kirovgrad there. On the basis and in general. Any suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Okay, no questions. Let's do it as we speak. Vote. Short-term decision-making procedure, please. Mikola Trochymovich, let's take a short, two minutes and vote. [[11:39:16]] For a hundred and Please, please. It's a name for a community decision, it's all written there, right here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u103	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council at its meetings on 23 December 2015, 27 January and 3 February 2016, reviewed the proposal of individual bodies of local self-government to rename localities and districts in relation to the need to bring their names into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist, Nazi Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propaganda of Their Symbolism. In general, the committee reviewed 175 proposals from local authorities for the renaming of local locations and areas, including: Vinnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Žitomirsk, Zakarpatski, Zaporziski, Kyivsky, Kirovgradsk, Lugansk, Mikolaiivsk, Odessk, Poltavsk, Ternopilski, Harkovsky, Herson, Cherkaske, Chernigiv. Among the above suggestions, it is proposed to rename one region — the Artemian Donetsk Region; five cities: Artemov, Déržinsk, Red Lyman, Illichivsk, Czervonozadské; and 169 villages and villages. I would like to highlight these suggestions, especially those supported by the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. And after we've talked about everything, there's no contradiction to that kind of thing, there's no nuance. Because all of these decisions are in line with the community's proposals. The committee proposes to take this decision as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've heard. I propose a vote of 3,854, allowing communities to exercise their right. The committee carefully considered and the Institute of National Memory checked everything, agreed everything was fine. 3,854 in total, ready? Colleagues, let's support, please, the community initiative. 3854 is on the basis of the vote, and in general, are we ready to vote? Vote, please support as a whole. Vote. [[11:41:47]] For 230 Actor's been approved. Please be more careful with your colleagues. Colleagues, Order on the Placing of the city of Balth of the district of Odessa to the category of cities of regional importance. I believe that even without discussion, we have discussed this once before, but the Baltic community has taken a huge step toward uniting the territorial communities. Nineteen communities volunteered. This is one of them, and I think there will be successful examples of community unification. So let's support them, if there's no objection, 3183. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right, that's right, to the category of cities of regional importance. Let's vote, please support. I'll explain what the problem is. The position, they'll be the center, they'll be the center of the future. Let's support it. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u105	Matvienka, Peter Dustock's Block. Dear colleagues, we need to understand that Baltha is a district center, and the Baltic region is one of the depressive districts. If today Baltha as a city has taken a major step toward unity, the united community has the same authority as the city of district importance. And in this way we do not need any additional preferences, for the united community has the authority of the cities of regional importance. But then other unassociated villages have a major problem, for they will remain in worship. So we shouldn't do that in terms of the development of the region. Nothing about the city’s regional status adds value to the Baltic if it has the status of a united community today. And that's why we don't need to set a precedent for other areas and for other areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I may not agree with this, with the only position. They are united, they have created a very vivid breakthrough in this issue, and today the transfer of them to a category of cities of district importance will give them the status of regional leader there, on the spot. And it's perfectly normal, and it needs to be supported. I think let's vote, support. It's people's initiative. What are we going to hold her back? We're going to make a decision -- they're going to have the status of a city of district importance, it's going to add possibilities to them in terroorganisms, and so on. And it's going to be a leader community. Let's support it. 3183 on the basis and in general: the draft Order on the Placing of the city of Balth of the district of Odessa to the category of cities of regional importance. I think it's perfectly normal. Let's support it. Vote. Please support everyone. It's a step forward, not backwards. Anatoly Sergiyovich, let's support it. Please be supportive. [[11:45:17]] For 235 The decision has been made. Thank you, Your Honor, for your position, for supporting this decision and this proposal. Dear fellow national deputies, let's move on. Draft Act amending Ukraine's Civil Procedural Code to establish birth or death in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory. It's also a visa-free package, as I understand it, a second reading. Please, the head of the Ruslan Knazevitch Committee. It's a second reading, colleagues. Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich. Stop, stop! Ruslan Petrovich, we have another Law on first reading, 2093. One minute, please, I missed him. Honorary colleagues, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (on social protection of victims), draft Law 2093. Please, the author's proposal for a reduced procedure to consider, please support. Colleagues, this is a question of dealing with Chernobyl, and I'd like to ask everyone to stay in their seats. [[11:46:51]] For-170. 2093, National Deputy of Aresonkov, please report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u107	The President-in-Office, honourable members of the national parliament, is proposing a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (registration No. 2093). The final draft of the bill was prepared by a working group of authors of the neighbouring bills and representatives of the Minsk and Minfin. So the bill is balanced and consistent, and it only holds the standards that can be implemented in today’s economic situation. The bill aims to restore the constitutional rights of injured citizens, which were repealed by the Ukrainian Act (since 28.12.14) at number 76-8. I will stop at the basic positions of the bill. A partial readjustment of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens is envisaged as part of the definition of radio-polluted zones. Since the repeal of this article by 76 laws has created confusion in the treatment and implementation of other laws. The bill provides a rebuffed definition of Category IV victims without binding to the territory. Restoring this category of victims will not lead to the restoration of the fourth zone, which in turn will not result in an increase in the number of victims. That is, the restoration of social benefits and guarantees is envisaged for already recognized victims who have been exposed to radioactive radiation in their time. Special attention is paid to the affected children. Some points are settled with regard to pension insurance. Dear fellow national MPs! I ask you to support this bill. He was considered and approved at the meeting of the committee of profile, and he is the joint position of the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour and the Ministry of Finance. I do! 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, which we are in April, to which.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u108	Finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u109	requires our commitment to humans with you. Social standards have not been violated, and those who have been suspended should be restored and fully employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Please report, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! After a number of social programs had been suspended last year, and I point out that the suspension of social programs had been explained accordingly by the military situation and the crisis in the country, we set up a working group on the committee. And I want to thank the drafters of the bill and the representatives of the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Ecology, all those who have joined. In fact, this is the result of a year's work, this is a new version of the bill, where compromises were sought, how to comply with the President's decree and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree that this year, this year, they were forgotten that they actually existed. I want to tell you that today, mortality in the liquidation category is one of the highest in the country. And when I meet these people, they say, maybe it's a plan to pause until they die. So in the law we only did things that involved liquidators and families where the liquidator had already died. So we didn't take any general things that were being discussed. So if you're taking other positions, there's usually problems. I'll remind you what this is about. So this is 4 positions for the children of minors or the wife of the dead exterminators. It's a one-time help, it's a medical aid, it's a child-recovery aid. That is, the medical unit and the support of the family where the liquidator protected us, and it's gone. And another important position is the contribution from the pension of liquidators. They earned their health so that we could still take 15 percent of their pension. So the basic positions, once again I say, we go back to the rights of liquidators and their families. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign two for two, two against. Sergey Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u114	Paul Kishkar, please, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear friends, a more socially oriented state in Europe than Ukraine will be hard to find. The ideology of this law is understood as a return to the benefits. But the ideologies offered in return are not perceived, including by the chairman of the committee. It was suggested that all the other countries that were affected by the Chernobyl AES explosion, Japan, which has a similar situation in Fukushima, somehow these rich countries have no ability to pay everyone in a row, to define 4, 10, 12 categories, to create a special agency and to pay people in a way that they don't know why or what to do. And that's why without ideologies, you can't uphold any populist laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. A respected young fellow MP says that protecting black people is populism. It took 30 years ago, when they went to fight the atom, when they protected the country, when many of them died, and thousands of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u118	Great. And I was there. And I was there in 1990. Thank you. You see how the issue of Chernobyl is emotionally perceived, and that's great when MPs are concerned about the problems of the Chernobylites, especially in the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The Ukrainian state and every one of us in our graves owes our lives to these people and should protect them. Because when the Fatherland called them and told them to protect the country, they protected it, and today we're telling them that the protection of the Black people is populism. It's not populism, it's our responsibility, it's our responsibility. More than that, many of them have already died. And that's why we're talking about protecting the families of the Chernobyl family. So I urge the Ukrainian Parliament to support this bill and give it to the people who have protected our country from the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u119	People's MP Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I will also ask for the support of this bill, because it is only about the dead liquidators of the Chernobyl AES and their families. I'm just going to tell you, just like the person who lives in the area that's the most affected by Chernobyl's AES. Today, respect for these people is not just a return to the benefits, there or any thanks, it's just an attitude towards those people who are today making their lives for the future of our children and the future of our country. So please support me, and please let's not engage in populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u121	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u122	I give the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u123	Natalia Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! In April of this year, we celebrate the 30th anniversary of a terrible accident. And, of course, it is painful and offensive when people who didn't ask at the time are needed or unnecessary, and the whole country is united in the fight against a terrible reactor. And the whole country, united and indivisible, then protected both peace and Europe. And today, defenders, liquidators, those people who saved us all from a terrible nuclear infection, that's the attitude. Therefore, I would also like to remind you that the first Chernobyl victims have been admitted by Donetsk and Lugansk oblasts. And there was never a bad relationship with these people in their lives, and they were always supported and respected. And I wanted us to make decisions today that were very responsible, and to correct those mistakes that had been made by the coalition that had been made a year ago when the budget was adopted. Because today it is unacceptable for a black man, a man who is forced to spend at least 2-3 thousand bracelets a month on maintenance and preservation to live just to live that day, to take his pension today and to tax his pension. It's a shame when a wife, a Chernobyl widow, after burying her husband, has to go to every social institution and prove that her husband died of Chernobyl and only then get a pension. Therefore, we support this bill and ask all deputies to vote on it. The bill is also supported and actively participated in its writing by all Chernobyl public organizations. Let us take the first step towards the restoration of justice. And never.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Moskalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the position of the government toward the Ukrainian people has been very well understood. Less social spending, more international loans. But, dear friends, today’s vote will show the Ukrainian people the attitude of the Ukrainian Parliament toward people. Are we today thinking about them, or are we being built up in the way that all credit stories have been set up today? I want to tell you that the night we voted in favour of the budget, violating the constitutional rights and already recognized people as victims, today this law removes this rule. Because I live in the Chernobyl area alone, onc diseases today are unable to establish a causal link to the disaster at Chernobyl’s AES because we have eliminated the area, and we leave oncological people, medicine, dispensation, treatment. What should these people do? This bill is the result of annual work, the co-authors are virtually all factions, the Ministry of Social Policy and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u127	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u128	Various Chernobyl organizations, please note, let's support this bill, support our people, vote for it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, take your seats. The only thing I can say is that the committee's findings are based. Look, you see me, and I see the whole hall. I can see that this option might not be enough. Colleagues, take your seats, take your seats. Colleagues, proposal 2093: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (on social protection of victims). In line with the conclusion of the committee, I'm putting the proposal on the ground, please vote, please support. Based on the base. [[12:00:57]] For 246 Dear colleagues! We do. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the people's deputies consider the project. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Colleagues, there's a denial of MPs, all of it. The only thing I'm going to ask you, you know what, let's do in summary preparation for second reading, it's going to be much better. Let's support the simplified procedure, prepare for the second reading, and consider for the next plenary week. Is it accepted? It will be, I think, a healthy compromise. Come on, please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. 2093, summary procedure, voting. Please back up! [[12:01:53]] For the 220. We didn't make it. Colleagues, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure for second reading, please vote, please support. You want to break the law? Please. It's a simplified procedure for second reading. [[12:02:23]] For 236 See? Dear colleagues, there is a denial of national MPs. Prepare for the second reading. Dear colleagues, there is an offer in the hall to vote it out as a whole, I ask you to identify this proposal, this is to be determined as to the overall consideration. Identify yourself, please. That's whether or not it supports the voting room as a whole. Please. So it's an offer to support the hall as a whole. [[12:03:11]] For-198 Colleagues, you want to break the law? Thank you. Dear colleagues, as appropriate. I didn't even get the right number of votes. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking respectable colleagues to come into the hall one at a time and take up jobs. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please report on the start of work. And I'm asking the factions to mobilize the faction's special composition to continue our work, because some factions are not fully assembled. Please invite your colleagues to enter the office to begin work. Dear colleagues, one of the factions is missing. [[B in m in s a l in]] I won't tell you. This creates technical difficulties at the beginning of our efficient and productive work. Therefore, we appeal to them with a persuasive request for a column to enter the hall and take up jobs. Most importantly, in this faction, the reporter is next. Ruslan Knyazevich, can you hear me? It's like Taras Bulby's. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. I urge you to enter the hall and prepare for registration. They're in the shower with us, but they're not physically there yet. Colleagues, let's go into the hall and get ready to register. What five minutes? Five minutes gone, Ukraine calls. Mrs. Ira, call me back. Let them go to the meeting. Colleagues, we go into the hall and prepare for registration. One more minute, everyone will be in the hall. We'll wait one more minute. Colleagues, for that tea, I ask you all to come in and take up jobs. Read the bills that have not yet been read, which will now be under review. Prepare for a responsible decision. And invite your colleagues into the hall. Dear colleagues, we have a daily bill package, this is a question in the context of the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine (second reading). You remember that we still have a number of obligations with regard to both individual bills and amendments to laws, by the way, and special confiscation, and the Agency for the Identification of Property acquired by Corruption, and the duty to our citizens, not to the EU, but above all to our citizens, to be able to work out these laws quickly and effectively. The additions to the law on confiscation and the agency are likely to be in the next plenary week. For our consideration today, we have a number of drafts in our second reading, which we need to consider and make decisions on. So I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the start of our work. One of the laws that stands. Now we're going to go to the bill to report to Tomenko Mikola. Mikola Tomenko, are you ready to report Bill 2524a? So let's go to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (2524a). And I invite you to see Tomenko's report, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, we are now returning to an extremely important bill that relates to the actual actual functioning of the completion of the construction of the shelter and the normal functioning of the alienation zone. Because, as you know, it is not just foreigners and Ukrainian experts who are working on the construction of the facility, but it is not just the management apparatus that is being used, but the people who say that the workers who carry on the operation of the area are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the people. This is about dosimeters, locksmiths, electricians, welders, drivers, janitors, accountants, shopkeepers, and masters. People like that today. This number of people today is 4,000 311 people. These four thousand 311 people from the moment of the disaster had a small salary, had a small allowance for working in the alien zone. This allowance was removed last year, and the government and I had an active discussion, and here, thanks to our head of the Committee on Social Policy, Ludmila Denisova, who told the government that a technical error had been made, and we corrected it last year. Sadly, under certain circumstances, we were unable to vote on this in our second reading and in general. The language, once again, is about a category of people who in Chernobyl today get a salary of 2-3 thousand dollars and work at least 36 hours a week. I mean, when I was being accused here and Tomenko was being told that he wanted to raise his salary for some bosses, friends, have a conscience. The chiefs came and went, and these people, who work all the time, find their place in the zone. If you're working a watch method and less than 36 hours, you don't have a payday this week. So the pay is fantastic, for those who work 36 hours -- a thousand 827 bucks. I'm informing you that on April 26, the heads of the donor states will be directly in the alien zone and in Chernobyl to see how the situation is happening there. You can imagine if we left four and a half thousand people on the salary of 2,000, how happy they would meet the leaders of 24 countries or their representatives who finance the completion of the Hidden. We did, and I'm grateful to the head of the alien zone, we've managed to calm down the unions that were here, and we've been complaining that we're going to find a way out of the situation, we're going to discuss this bill, we're going to adopt it in the second and the whole, and this is a fantasticly meager sum so far, and people are going to take our position. So once again, it's about 4,000 311 people to whom we're going to return the payment to a thousand 800.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u132	Please give the opportunity to finish Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u133	Besides, it's an element of social justice, it's also an extremely important story, because unfortunately we have big debts and problems with the alienation zone. You know, for a long time, we had different situations, responsibilities, no responsibilities, no appointments. Today, thank God, there is an appointed head of the Alien Zone. We're the committee, let you know, on. We had five meetings last year. In the meantime, I'm listening to either some MPs, or some ministers, which tell you that there's luxury, that's where you're going with me, and I'm inviting everyone to this 5th meeting. You won't ask, I pulled the former minister of ecology out because he said the president was coming, he was afraid to come. So officials don't all go, too, and if the question is that you pay a thousand 800 dollars, he says, "That's terrible money, we're going to die." So, guys, once again, I want to ask everyone, we worked actively on the committee, we worked with the government. We're most of the amendments and I apologize to the MPs, so we didn't count because we had to put it into the budget, into the budget rule, as always. So actually the final version of the law in the second reading is as follows, that the citizens working in the Aliens Zone are being paid in order and in size as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. That's the position of our Committee on Social Policy, that's the position of the government, so all the other technical amendments we've rejected, even though they're ideologically on our side. And it's suggested that what Kabmin and I did was get the law going right away. Here we added: to bring the normative acts into line, to ensure the proper activity of ministries and to prepare as a normative part of this position. I'm convinced that after the adoption of this bill, when we're here, in the session hall in March, we'll meet them for parliamentary hearings, and when the President and the government go with the donors on April 26th to Chernobyl 30th, the team will meet them and say, "Glory to God that you mentioned the Chernobyls, you're helping them. And hopefully this will be the same next year." So, friends, if we are to make this very, very important international effort, we need to think of those people who work there directly. Once again, it's about small sums, but in this situation this 1,000 800 dollars is all the same real help to these 4,000 people. Therefore, we can, Mr. Andrey, as amended, if now they insist, and then we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u134	Mikola Volodymyrovich, thank you for the report. But according to the Rules, we must go through every amendment and allow MPs to reason on their position. So please stay in the rostrum, and I'll call the amendments, and the authors will give their position accordingly. 1 amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Yes, please turn on Lechchenka's microphone. Turn on the funnel microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In the previous edition of article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, which was effective until 1 January 2015, just before today's oligarchic government began to cancel all possible benefits, instead of charging the budget with taxes just for the oligarchic business. Thus, the previous edition envisaged payments in order and in size established by the Cabinet of Ministers, not only for citizens working in an alien zone, but also for citizens working in areas of radioactive pollution, as well as for a safe area, that is, a mandatory eviction after the complete removal of residents. You see, the restoration of the right to payment should also be widespread for these persons, because disregarding their right to payment may be seen as a violation of the principle of equality before the law. This is part of article 24 of the Constitution. It's just that my amendment is about making them do the same thing, and it's too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u136	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u137	Yes, my amendment is about restoring these categories of citizens, who deserve the same directly, and who have an appropriate supplement that was canceled by today's oligarchic government. So I ask you to support this amendment so that we are within the Constitution and there is no, let's say, attitude. Different treatments for different categories of citizens are essentially in one situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u138	Please comment, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u139	Dear Mr. Jury, we are ideologically your allies. But on the committee, when we worked with representatives of the relevant ministries and departments, because it was very important to us and the support of those who would follow the standard, we came to the conclusion that it was perfectly legitimate for you to be a norm, and we brought it into this law that we voted in the first reading by 12 o'clock. Because we basically took here and the subject matter of the law. Ludmila Denisova and I registered, there were only "workers" in the alien zone. We stick to that logic and other territories. The people who work, we made it a rule of law that was voted in the first reading just at 12 o'clock. So I think we're going to go back to that question, but already preparing for the second reading of the previous bill, which I hope the session room will support. So we turned down, not for ideological reasons, but for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u140	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, are you insisting on the vote? Mr. Yuri, are you insisting on the vote? Dear colleagues who support Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[13:03:11]] For-96 The decision is not taken. The following changes. Is it Lensky, or is he insisting? No, it doesn't. And the 3rd National Deputy of Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. So we were able to discuss the bill. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko explained the whole logic of the changes made by the committee. It seems that this decision is consolidated for the entire room, so it's important that everyone goes into the hall now, takes their seats and prepares for the vote. Mr. Mikola, thank you. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now, if you'd like to come into the hall, we'll put up a first-round vote to promote discipline in the hall. Please be prepared. I'm voting for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (number 2524a) (second reading). Signal vote, please vote, please support. [[13:04:44]] For 197 Not all have been mobilized yet. Colleagues, come into the hall, it's business time, you have to be in the workplace and make decisions. Colleagues, please invite a colleague, the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to inform us that we are moving on to the decision-making process. And I'm going to vote again. I once again place a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (number 2524a) (second reading). Signal vote, please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote. [[13:05:52]] For the 220. We can vote now. Yes. Please, colleagues. I've seen it. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, prepare for the vote. Guys! A few votes may not be enough. Heratchenka, Zola, vote. So, are you ready? We can vote. Again, boys, Zola! I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (for citizens working in the alien zone) (number 2524a) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Guys, please vote. Vote, fellows! [[13:07:03]] For 233 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the drafters of the bill. Colleagues, now we're looking at 3177-d, this is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the activities of military and civilian administrations, this is also a second reading. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Gerisimov Arthur Volodymyrovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u141	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! On 28 January 2016, the Supreme Council adopted the draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of military and civil administrations, submitted by Pashinski, Vinnik and Gerasimov People's Deputies. At the same time, according to the Supreme Council’s decree, it was entrusted with the task of developing a draft law for the second reading, taking into account comments and suggestions that came within a short period of time from legal entities. The draft to prepare it for second reading received 17 amendments from the Ukrainian National Deputies, of which nine amendments were included in the Committee’s discussion, five proposals in part, and three proposals were rejected. In particular, I would like to thank the People's Deputy Rybchin of Fatherland for the offer that will allow in the military and civil administrations to raise the wages of their employees up to twice. So with regard to these amendments, we'll follow it a little bit later. During the drafting of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws on the activities of military and civilian administrations, the second reading took into account not only the observations of national deputies, but also the appeal of the military and civilian administrations of the Donetské and Lugansk regions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this bill will ensure that urgent issues of local importance are resolved through the temporary exercise of the authority of local self-government by appropriate military-civil administrations during the anti-terrorist operation in Donetsk and Lugansk regions. In view of the importance of the changes proposed, however, I ask that the bill be supported in second reading and in general. And with regard to the amendments. Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy Krivenka is counted. Correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u142	We don't have to count, we just count the ones that aren't counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u143	Amendment number four of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u144	I'll ask you again to stop and pay attention. So, colleagues, most of the amendments were taken into account. I call those who are unaccounted for, if the authors insist, we will certainly give them the floor in the democratic trends of our Parliament. 4th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 13th, Levenchenko. Jurko! Work it out, think about it, I'll go to another. 17th, Levechenko. He insists. No questions asked. So while Lechchenko is being read into the content of the document, please, 4 amendments, please make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u145	Colleagues, good afternoon. 4th Amendment. The handover of rural, rural, district, district councils by military and civilian administrations is accompanied by the transfer of appropriate financial, material, technical and other resources to carry out the mandated tasks in the order and limits defined by these and other laws. This is a very important amendment because, without the logistical resources of these administrations, they will not be able to perform their functions. Therefore, I ask the Hall to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u146	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u147	The committee supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u148	Well, it's written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u149	Well, at the moment, we just had a consultation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u150	Then they reconsidered the situation. Then, colleagues, we need to focus.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u151	For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u152	And make a decision. Colleagues, need 226. And I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, we ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u154	So, colleagues, please concentrate, and the amendment author and committee have come to understand that it is needed in the text of the law, so we need to support it. And I'm asking you to support her. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4 of the People's Deputy of Efimov. And please vote, please support, 4 amendments. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[13:12:16]] For-162 There is no unity in the room. The decision is not made. You were easier on the committee to accept than on the Supreme Council. So, Mr. Yuri, your amendment is 13. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to Jurk Levchenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u155	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. First of all, I'd like to address you as the presiding officer and as a matter of fact. Please, because there's, you know, some jokes in the lobby. If you get to the idea that you're giving out a table of amendments just this morning, you'd at least put the law at 13 o'clock, yes, but at least you'd put it somewhere around 16 o'clock, so that those MPs who are actually interested in law enforcement here could study these amendments. I think that would be the right thing to do. So essentially, it's essentially my correction. The law proposes that the VCA, in fact, without communities, should in itself establish the unification of communities, that is, the executive authority does, in fact, without the will of its community. The principle of voluntary unification of communities is absolutely in line with this. First. Secondly, to unite communities in conditions of war in the frontal territories is also, to put it mildly, inappropriate now, because the actual position of the local community is not understood. So my amendment, which relates to this, is to take away these powers that are proposed to give VCAs to unite communities to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u156	Ten more seconds, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u157	Similarly, the Law on voluntary unification of communities, not some extraordinary authority in military civilian administrations, should be in force here. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u158	The committee does not support this amendment. We don't support why? Because at present in these territories, there are indeed situations where communities want to unite, and we cannot take that right away from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u159	Does he insist on voting? He insists. Now let's put an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u160	Please, 13 amendments. Identify yourself. [[13:14:38]] For-95 I didn't get the required number of votes. 14th Amendment, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The 14th amendment, written that it is included in part or in the first reading, is a complete mistake simply, I understand, by the committee. The point is that my amendment applies to the standard, where they propose, in fact, to transfer the possibility of assigning the district managers of the VCA directly to the area of the VCA instead of going through the procedure, in fact, through the BSB and through the President. My amendment does not apply to temporary increases in wages for VCA employees in frontal areas, because this is where I fully support this offer of Fatherland. And that's exactly what they're proposing to do directly across the area. Well, look, the very essence of the military and civilian administrations is being completely destroyed here. It must be temporary things with extraordinary powers that have to go through the higher leadership of the state or, in fact, anti-terrorist ways, if this is really done for it, not for some.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u162	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u163	If this is really done for this, not for some usurpation of authority. Because if you just put it all in place, it's not clear what the military-civil administration is in. It looks more like some local princes then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u164	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u165	I'm going to say right now that these first-reading rules haven't changed, and we have a clear appointment there for the head of the appropriate district administration, but for agreeing with the anti-terrorist center. So this is preserved, please look at this in part two of article 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u166	Thank you. There's a need, you insist? 14th Amendment. Please identify yourself. [[13:16:48]] For-89 I couldn't find my support. 15th, 16th, partially counted. 17th Amendment. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u167	Thank you. The proposal to exclude from the transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Military and Civil Administrations, the rules according to which the Act ceases to be valid one year from the date of its publication, is irrelevant. Because under such circumstances, the law actually extends to infinity. As of today, this law is limited to one year with the President’s right to extend it for a year by his decree, approved by the Supreme Council. I know that there the authors offered an alternative extension, that the law had been in force for three years and that the amendment had been taken into account. But to be honest, I can't agree with that logic. If there is, if we have a war, if we need to prolong the operation of these extraordinary powers, if you don't want to introduce a state of war, yes, it must be, the President has to take responsibility, issue an appropriate decree and the Supreme Council approves it. Because three years in the law to prescribe the exact 100 percent effect of these extraordinary powers without military status is essentially osmosis, you know. If you want to do this, enter a state of war and engage in light manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u168	The committee does not support this amendment. Why? Because in part two of article 7, we took into account the amendment made by national deputy Taras Shepherd, in which time limits were clearly imposed on the operation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the issues. And for confirmation, this is the 17th we have? 17 Amendment, Yuri Lewchenko. 17 for confirmed, the committee does not support it. Please 17 amendments, please, Yuri Lewchenko, rejected by the committee. [[13:18:54]] For-69 I didn't get the required number of votes, my dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we have, we've actually passed the entire table, the amendments were not much – up to 17. So there is a suggestion that we now adopt this important law in the second reading and in general as a result of consideration in the second reading. So I ask all the Ukrainian national deputies to come to the Supreme Council Hall, take their seats and prepare for the vote, please. Guys, are you ready? Let's take the vote, the second reading, and in general, as a result of the consideration, please all support. Second reading and, in general, are the colleagues ready? Let's have a signal vote. Vote, please. [[13:20:36]] For 193 All right, colleagues. I think we are. I think we'll go back before we vote for this bill, and we've discussed it. Let's move on. I can't see. Well, let's do it again, colleagues, VCA alert. Well, it will if we don't see it now. Let's do it again, colleagues, 3177-d, 3177-d in second reading, in second reading and in general. Please be prepared. One minute, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, many of you have discussed the details of this bill. It's extremely important to these areas. I'm constantly getting in touch with the heads and military-civil administration of the Donetsk region, and the military-civil administration of the Luhansk region, and I understand the situation that if we don't vote on this law today, we're going to have a legal collapse because the old law will end. We've taken all the amendments into account, we've been very serious about this law with representatives of all the factions of the coalition. Therefore, I ask you to focus and vote for this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, please give again in the second reading and in general the outcome of the consideration of the vote, the honourable colleagues. Ready to vote? Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting on the signal, please support. [[13:22:36]] For 202 Well, obviously, we're going to have to go back to this issue before we vote for it. Let's move on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, come on, we're done here. Come on. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u173	Please, Shepherd. Taras Shepherd is a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u174	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. Dear colleagues, there is one problem with this law today. Maybe some of the colleagues don't vote and don't support it. Today's the 7th day of the amendment, which means the procedure's not working out. I've got the next offer. If we don't support him today, we'll give the MPs a chance to take advantage -- and tomorrow we'll re-apply and vote. Why is it important? 12 numbers are actually all going to be outside the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u175	Let's move on, fellows. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, look, I was forced to go through a few bills at the beginning of our break-up, because there was no reporter. I think the hall understandably came to this that I had to take such a step. And we're back to the order of the day. So let's talk about what the bill is and who the reporter is. But we now have, on the day-to-day basis, a 3171 bill amending the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code on the establishment of birth or death in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory. This is also a second reading. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u177	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, there was just a faction sitting where I participated, and I couldn't get in on time. I'm so sorry. Thank you for being able to express the position of the committee on Bill No. 3171. This is about a bill amending the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code on the establishment of birth or death in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. I'm going to remind you that this is one of the laws that belongs to the so-called visa-free package. The essence of this bill is well - known, and we discussed it in detail in the first reading. And, in principle, I think that everyone agreed with this idea that it would be possible for those whose children were born in occupied territory to get a proper birth certificate, or if a person died, just like the death certificate, to establish the fact of death in this very area of the Ukrainian model. This kind of initiative requires us to welcome and support people. In the first reading, we have considered and recommended in a rather detailed way in the second reading of the committee that we take into account three basic things, more specifically, that we discuss, as was the case with the factions of the factions during the first reading, which were key. This is primarily about what we are. There are technical things, I won't stop at them. The committee took into account the wording and. More specifically, he recommended changing the wording of the statement that a person's death in the occupied territory could be made not by any person, as was the case in the draft submitted by the subject of the legislative initiative, the Cabinet of Ministers, but that he could be either a relative of the deceased or their representative. As we discussed with you before. The second thing we stopped at, and again it was the subject of discussion, and it was as if in the first reading it was agreed that the time frame for a proper consideration of the fact-finding or birth of a person who was offered by the Cabinet of Ministers for the first reading, namely 24 hours, during the period of time, should be taken away. Instead of proposing another formulation, it's urgent. And if this is immediately within 24 hours, we'll welcome it. But on the other hand, don't set such borderline time limits for the court, so that the court will still, if there's any objective circumstances that it can't do in a 24-hour period, allow it to go beyond those periods. And finally, I'm finishing a discussion on what I think is occupied territory. Remember, we had a discussion about whether to consider that we have a law that is regulated. which regulates the occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol or the decree of the Supreme Council, which has been recognized as such occupied areas by individual areas of Donetské, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u178	Please give us the opportunity to finish Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u179	To remove this coalition, the proposed formula is that we simply refer to Parliament's decision, both to the law and to the decrees, and that's how we are covering all of Parliament's decisions, where the question of occupied territories is mentioned. That table that you have prepared is made by a consensus decision of the committee. I'm ready to consider the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we must follow up on the amendments that have been made. And that's why I'm asking the committee head to stay put. 2 Amendment, People's Deputy Heratchenko. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 4th, Logwinsky. Don't insist. 5th, Spinov. Don't insist. 6th, Hero. Don't insist. 7th, Lensky. Don't insist. 8th, Anointed One. Don't insist. Nine o'clock, Logwinsky. Don't insist. 10th, Spinov. Don't insist. 11th, Hero. Don't insist. 13th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on Yuri Lewchenk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u181	Thank you. Well, actually, my amendment is relatively technical. But I would like to pay attention to the reporter. The point is that the amendment is meant to be removed. You're not listening, are you? Is there no way to listen? The amendment is aimed at correcting a certain error in the law that was adopted in the first reading, which ignores the fact that we actually have the Act on the Status of Occupied Territories, which now applies, unfortunately, to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, although it should also apply to Donbass and so on, yes. And my amendment just points out that there are a little bit more standards in that law than there are. And that's why it has to be pointed out in this amendment that "unless otherwise is established by law," actually, in order for it to be legally balanced. Because there may be a conflict, or there may be differences between what you are proposing and the Act on the Status of Occupied Territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u182	Yes, of course, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u183	First of all, I want to tell you that the colossal conflict over which areas of which the act is properly in place, we've decided, I've already said this before, I don't think there's any point in stopping it. As far as the law is concerned, there is indeed a broader deadline — within five days. But here we recommend doing so without delay. If there's a standard up to five days there, I don't think these standards are exactly contravening each other, because we encourage it to do so faster, but the law in those special areas they can't do it later. It's more than five days. I think this question is off. Because our goal was not to get into that law for a number of reasons, because you know that there is a need to look at that bill in the first place. Now a whole series of changes are being worked out in another committee of profilers, and, as far as I know, they will, including these issues will be settled. So we came out of the situation in such a way that, without touching the law or violating the logic in it. Believe me, we've consulted and practiced, these standards allow us to work properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u184	Thank you. Or insists. Yes, please, does Yuri Lewchenko insist on voting? He insists. Then, dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the 13th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please 13 amendments, we vote. [[13:32:05]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 14th, Lensky. Don't insist. 16th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 17th, Logwinsky. Don't insist. 18th, Logwinsky. Don't insist. 20th, Alexeyev. Don't insist. 21st, Hero. Logwinsky insists. Please turn on the Logwinsky microphone. People's Deputy of Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! I wanted to point out, however, that in this bill we should take into account that when a court decision establishes the fact of birth in a temporary occupied territory, we should also mention information about parents. Why? Because we know that if it's not registered, there's going to be questions about inheritance, there's going to be questions about what single mothers are. That is why I would still like to withdraw the amendment, but in voting take into account the technical regulation and add the phrase at the end: "' the date and place of birth of the person, of his parents." Add "for her parents." This is the technical information that is needed, agreed with the head of the committee and with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine that drafted this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u186	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u187	Indeed, the committee supports this idea, but I would very much like to make it clear that the rule of law to which this amendment should be proposed, because what you made of your amendment is a very different part of the law. Just so it doesn't happen, we're going to support the amendment right now, and you're talking about something completely different. Please make a specific suggestion as to which standards you wish to amend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u188	Please turn on the Logwinski microphone again to give a clear message of your offer for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u189	Thank you. Again, then. Part three of the previous edition of article 259-1, namely: "In the decision to establish the birth of a person in a temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular, the date and place of birth of the person and his parents shall be recorded by the court." Part three-fourth is considered to be part four and fifth of article 257-1 of the new edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u191	I agree. Once again for the shorthand, it's going to be a new number in the new edition: it's going to be 257 with the 1 icon, not 259 with the 1 icon, as in the first edition, because we've introduced other norms and the corresponding numbering has moved. We support this proposal. And please support the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u192	Let's get her. Mr. Ruslan, I have a request that in the final word we say for the transcript and the amendment that we've been talking about, and we're going to vote together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u193	Okay. Then we suggest voting in general, taking into account the amendment he has just proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u194	I'll give you my closing statement, and you'll report it. We're going straight. Next. Alexeyev. Don't insist. Heroceno. Don't insist. Lensky. Don't insist. Anointing. Don't insist. Logwinsky. Don't insist. 33rd, Hero. Don't insist. 34th, Knazevitch. Don't insist. 35th, Lensky. Don't insist. 36th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 40th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 42nd, Dove. No, no. 43rd, Knyazevich. Don't insist. 45th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 48th, Dove. Don't insist. 49th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 50th, Spinov. Don't insist. 51st, Wesselova. Don't insist. 52nd, Hero. Don't insist. 53rd Logwinsky. Don't insist. 54th, Logwinsky. Don't insist. So we discussed all the amendments. Mr. Ruslan, I ask you to give me the final vote. And while Ruslan Petrovich announces, please ask the deputies to come into the hall, prepare for the vote, and in one minute there will be a vote for an important bill. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u195	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill, and we have indeed made a commitment in preparing Ukraine for the visa-free regime with the European Union to fill this legal gap. Moreover, it has absolutely social significance, and I would say it's patriotic and political, because there are a number of Ukrainians who remain Ukrainians, and even though they think about living in Crimea, Sevastopol or other occupied territories, they demand that in Ukraine they obtain Ukrainian birth certificates or the fact of death. We are obliged to support such ones. So please accept the proposal made by the committee. Believe me, we have considered objectively, there has been a professional discussion, you see that the vast majority of the proposals made by the committee’s head are not considered by the committee, which says that it has indeed been an objective consideration of the situation. And I agree with this position of committee. And I would like to support this bill as a whole, taking into account the amendment that the National MP made under the transcript during the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u196	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u197	With the amendment made by the Lao People's MP during the session's consideration of the matter, it is in the Committee's drafting that amendment that I should like to vote on the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that there will be a vote now. It is also important for the regulation of our legislation, and it is important for the implementation of the Plan of Action for Liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine. So I'm going to put, first of all, a bill amending Ukraine's Civil Procedural Code on the establishment of birth or death in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory (number 3171) on the second reading and in general. Signal vote, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u199	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u200	Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:38:59]] For 233 There's a potential for work. And, dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine on the establishment of birth or death in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine (number 3171), as amended by the Committee on Corrections, which was issued by the second reading and as a whole. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[13:39:43]] For 249 Decision taken. Hello. The next one on a daily basis is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. This is also a package of legislation on visa liberalisation by the European Union. 3154, I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u201	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, this is another bill of the so-called visa-free package. Remember, we had a long discussion in the first reading, and I'll just remember the quintession. After Ukraine signed a readmission agreement with the European Union, we made a commitment, according to the fact that there was an illegal crossing of borders, to decide that such alien and stateless persons should be immediately expelled from Ukraine, the main quintension of the bill. At the same time, during the first reading of this question, you will recall that we had a discussion on the same lines that were proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers for the Administrative Courts to make such decisions. Since the deadline was immediately proposed, he envisioned immediate decision - making on the removal of the individuals mentioned in the territory of Ukraine. But during the discussion, taking into account, including the position of the Supreme Administrative Court, other courts of administrative justice, the majority of those coming out of the rostrum and finally the committee agreed that we should continue this term. And offer it a slightly longer than immediate decision-making within three days of the moment, from the beginning of the discussion. In view of this kind of political position, the committee, when considering the matter during the second reading procedure, agreed with the logic noted and proposed the following compromise proposal, which was supported by members of the committee that the administrative cases referred to in the corresponding part of the first, this article, are considered by the court on a five-day basis from the date of the date of the application, except for cases of detention which the court is considering as urgent, attention, but not later than three days after the date of the application. This final sentence we propose to support on behalf of the committee in the second reading. This is, as it were, the fundamental change that was proposed. Please take into account such a proposal by the committee to support the bill as a whole in the second reading. I'm ready to consider the amendments that are given to you in a comparative table from the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u202	Thank you. So let's do the repairs. 5th, Shapov, don't insist. 9th Lensky, don't insist. 11 o'clock, Captain, don't insist. 12th, Shapov, don't insist. Not many amendments, the amendment authors agree with the text of a bill prepared by the committee for second reading. So I ask my fellow MPs to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, an important bill, please, discipline. I'll put it to the vote first. Thus, a signal vote on the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (No. 3154) in the second reading and in general. Vote alert, please. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u203	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u204	Please be supportive. [[13:43:54]] For 204 Colleagues, I see there's an understanding of all the factions supporting this bill, but beyond understanding there must be more discipline. I ask you to invite a colleague into the hall, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, invite a fellow MP into the Chamber. The Secretariat and the Supreme Council, and the factions, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Please call the deputies in the hall, come in, take your seats, there will be a vote. Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. I am revoting the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (No. 3154). I would like you to take part in the vote. Please support, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u205	Yuri Vitaliovich, vote. [[13:45:34]] For a hundred and
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u206	There's no support for the bill in the hall. Can the Self-Help faction really explain the position? Mr. Yuri, who? Mr. Oleg, who of you will explain "self-help"? Please turn on the microphone to Ruslan, please. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, the adoption of this bill is really necessary, because it is absolutely necessary to settle the issue of alien extraction. At the same time, it wasn't set for confirmation of the 10 and 11 amendments that we've been filing, which have been removed by the legal commissions that are now in this bill. So if we leave this bill the way it is now, I would suggest that it be sent for second rereading and in the order of the shortened procedure to be prepared, in the next plenary week then vote in general. Otherwise, let's now put the amendments to the vote, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u208	Mr. Ruslan, you say no confirmation was given. From this rostrum, according to the Rules, I invited Olena Sotnik to explain the amendment. I heard no appeal and her desire to speak. So let's sort this out. Okay. Let's, maybe you can do the correction instead, let's talk about it. We have to put the bill at risk for another week. Is there any reason for that, other factions? Self-help, please, Ruslan, Ruslan. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u209	I'll explain what's going on, especially in the 10th Amendment, well, that comes out of it. The point is that Ms. Olena Sotnik feels that more time should be given — a five - day period rather than a three - day period. Well, I don't think, listen, well, this is kind of a discussion that I don't think is solid. If that's the only reason I'm ready on behalf of the committee, I don't know if the committee, God willing, let's go on a five-day basis, if that's in principle for you. But not adopting this law, well, it's just not serious, no one will understand us. The European Union requires the implementation of the Readmission Treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, if I announce from the stand under the stenogram that the law is passed, given the 10th, 11th amendment, that would be the basis for the vote? It will be. The committee doesn't object. Please come into the hall and get ready. If the committee does not object and considers the amendment unprincipled, I will make it along with the amendments. Please come into the hall and prepare. I am voting again on the bill amending the Ukrainian Act (3154) amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, as amended by Amendments 10 and 11, with amendments 10 and 11, with a second reading. And please vote, 3154. Please. Vote, signal vote. Please vote. [[13:49:03]] For 209 Please, Ruslan, offer compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u211	I'm calling the Self-Help faction. Maybe another compromise? Maybe let's write it this way, as Europeans require: let's write what's urgent, but not later than five days? And somehow we'll take your position into account, and the European Union. They require immediate action. No, if their offer is only five days, the words "immediately" should be cleaned up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, then I'm sorry. But if you can, that would be a compromise. Well, believe me, I don't want the European Union to come back to us again because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u212	My colleagues, I'm going to put you to the vote again. If there's no unity in the room from this question, I think we'll go not through the second rereading, but post it after lunch. But let's do it again. I'm inviting people into the hall. I'm re-voting the vote, which is kind of a compromise decision. 3154, signal vote: Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. Please vote. Second reading. Signal vote. Vote. [[13:50:25]] For 211 Then, with your permission, I'll put this bill to the vote after lunch. [[B in m in s a l in]] And now we're going to discuss one more bill. I'm asking the deputies to stay in the hall. Let's talk about the next bill. This is 3155 "For refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection." I invite you to speak to the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of Packan Valerija Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u213	Good afternoon, Andri Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection (registration No. 3155). This bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which was introduced to our committee. We all supported him in the first reading. The committee received six amendments, of which four were adopted and two were edited by the committee. This bill is the same. I would like to remind you that its adoption is important for the implementation of the EU visa liberalisation plan for Ukraine. The legislative initiatives involved two of our colleagues: Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich and Rybak Ivan Petrovich. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft bill be voted on as a whole. Please proceed to the amendment procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u214	Wait a minute, now. Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues, we have to follow the Rules to those amendments that have been rejected. But in fact, the committee worked qualitatively with the deputies, all the amendments. The first is the fish, the second is the Nemiri, and all of the following were taken into account or taken into account in part. Is there one of the authors of the amendments who feels that the amendment is not fully taken into account? No, they're all in agreement. And so please give us another word for Valery Vasilovich's closing statement. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, Valery Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, it has the technical nature of resolving the deadlines for those who need additional protection, for refugees or temporary protection. It's only about time-limits, month-terms, and time-limits for processing documents from 7 to 15 days. All the amendments are included, please vote and support the above-mentioned bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u216	Thank you, colleagues. All the amendments are taken into account, I understand, no warnings to this bill are important. And I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection. Number 3157. 3155, excuse me, 3155. Vote alert, please. Please vote. [[13:54:07]] For 216 I see they're not all there. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, there's an important vote, and I ask you to come into the hall and take your jobs, colleagues. Ready? I'm betting on the vote again. I'm asking everyone to be careful, to take up jobs. So again. A signal vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection (No. 3155) is a signal vote. Please vote, please support. [[13:54:59]] For 223 There are voices in the hall. I see Ruslan Knyazevich is here. I'm asking you to invite two or three more people. Please be careful. Now we're going to vote in general again. I'm asking you to call whoever's in the towers. Colleagues! Who can hear me? Please come into the hall. Please come into the hall. I see Mustafa called a fellow MP. The MPs are coming in. They come in one group at a time. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting in a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection to improve the process of documenting persons (number 3155) in the second reading and in general. Please, we're voting, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:56:25]] For 234 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the drafters. Colleagues, pay attention! On site. Colleagues, I'm asking you to stay put. Come on. We didn't just have 3154 votes. There was the unity of the hall, there were not just voices. Let's do it again, Knazevitch. Princes, please, one minute. One minute, Knyazevich's word. Stay where you are, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u217	If you don't mind, I'm calling the Self-Help faction. We have just consulted, and, indeed, we cannot go beyond a three - day period, considering that a person is being detained, and three days later, if the decision is not made, he should be released. And so if the court doesn't take this decision in three days, and as you suggest in five days, it doesn't have any procedural significance anymore. The representative of the Cabinet of Ministers will confirm that this position is in agreement with the European Union. Guys, I don't think it's such a principle thing. I'd like to take you into account and vote on that paper that the committee is proposing. Believe me, this is an agreed position with everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-04-m0.u218	It's like there's been a compromise. The Self-Help faction promises to vote. Let's try the 3154 vote again. So I'm voting for a bill amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (number 3154) -- second reading and in general. Signal vote. Colleagues, please support me, please vote for the vote. Vote, colleagues, please in committee. [[13:58:10]] For 204 Mr. Ruslan, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no political support. So, with your permission, we'll be looking at it after lunch. We made an important decision in our second reading. At this time, our morning meeting is exhausted. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I ask everyone to be in the hall at 4:00, so that we can continue our work without a break. Thank you.
