ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session. Please. Blockers, please take a seat at the rostrum. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we're about to have an enrollment. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register with the Ukrainian National Deputies. [[16:05:59]] There are 345 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, I will consult you once again on the same subject that I discussed before lunch. We have a large package of drafts "inclusion into the agenda of the day session" and among them are extremely important laws, especially those relating to national security and defence. The discussion on them is unforeseeable, and we must proceed immediately to the vote. And I want to make that proposal that I made for lunch so we can go to the next bill that's in order for the day, and when there's mobilization in the room, we've put the laws to the vote so we don't have to put them down right now. Are there no objections, colleagues? There's a general agreement. Because almost every faction has laws that are important, and every faction is interested in making our votes effective. And that's why I think on that issue there's going to be total unity in the hall. I would also like to report that we have today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are educators, school directors and simply teachers from Santa Claus, New Bug, and Kazanka who have come to support the Education Act, which we have adopted successfully. Let us welcome our guests and colleagues who have come to Parliament. Thank you for your support. We are trying to follow the path of education reform, and we will continue to do so. So, my colleagues, I'm announcing a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his or her special status, aimed at liberalising the European Union's visa regime for Ukraine. This is the second reading, and we're going to be looking at this bill through the second reading procedure. And I invite the head of the Committee on Informatics and Communications of Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich to report. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For consideration by the Supreme Council, a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship is proposed to certify a person or his or her special status aimed at the liberalisation of the European Union visa regime for Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (register No. 3224) since 13.11.2015. On January 28, 2016, the bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. The Committee on Information and Communications considered at its meeting on March 30 a draft law and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on second reading and in general as a committee law. I would like to point out that the committee’s second reading had reached 147 proposals from legislators, a comparative table on 50 pages. 102 revisions have been counted, 14, partially counted 1, not counted 57. One of the key money in the bill is the introduction of a Ukrainian citizen's passport in the form of an electronic media card, which contains information about a person that will minimize the likelihood of another person being identified. In addition, this will enhance the effectiveness of national security measures in situations of military aggression. The right to refuse biometric information will ensure respect for the constitutional principle of non-discrimination, equality of citizens before the law, regardless of religion. The operation of a single high-security passport document in a state will minimize the possibility of counterfeiting it. Proposals by the National Deputies to increase the cost of administrative services were suggested by the Committee to reject. The bill provides for the approval of the marginal level of the value of administrative services at the level of the law, not of the regulations as they are today, so we clean up corruption. In doing so, local authorities can exempt individuals from administrative fees and exchange of documents that support Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his or her special status. In addition, it is necessary to change the validity of the project, namely that this bill will be in force since 01.09.2016, this period is necessary to build an identification system and an electronic digital signature system into an uncontacted electronic document medium. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a committee law. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u3	Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues! Indeed, most of the amendments that have been made have been taken into account by the committee, but a number of amendments have been rejected, and we will go through each of them. And I'll ask the amendment authors to prepare for a hot, uncompromising discussion. And I'm going to call the amendment authors. So 1-a. Oksana Sold. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 4th, Sold. Don't insist. 7th, Sold. Don't insist. 10th, Lensky. Don't insist. 12th, Lensky. Don't insist. 15th, Sold. Don't insist. 16th, Mustafa Najem. Mustafa Najem! Mustafa doesn't insist. 24th, Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 25th, Oxana Sold. Don't insist. 29th, Sold. Don't insist. 36th, Sold. Don't insist. 38th, Sold. Don't insist. 39th, Sold. Don't insist. 41st, Spinov. Sphinx, don't you think? Don't insist. 42nd, Najem. Don't insist. 43rd, Sold. Don't insist. 44th, Sold. Don't insist. 51st, Sold. Don't insist. 63rd, Sold. Don't insist. 67th, Najem. Don't insist. 68th, Najem. Don't insist. 69th, Sold. Don't insist. 70th, Najem. Don't insist. 71st, Najem. Don't insist. 72nd, Sold. Don't insist. 73rd, Sold. Don't insist. 75th. Don't insist. 77th. Don't insist. 79th. Don't insist. 81st. Don't insist. 83rd. Don't insist. 85th. Don't insist. 87th. Don't insist. 89th, Sold. Don't insist. 91st, Sold. Don't insist. 95th, Najem. Don't insist. 96th. Don't insist. 97th, Najem. Don't insist. 98th, Sold. Don't insist. 99th. Don't insist. 101st. He doesn't insist either. Colleagues, we've got a lot of work going on this bill, so I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report that there's going to be a vote in five to seven minutes. And I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of MPs, prepare for decision-making. 103rd. Don't insist. 104th Semenha. Don't insist. 105th, Najem. Don't insist. 106th. Don't insist. 111th, Najem. Don't insist. 113th, Sold. Don't insist. I'm asking my fellow national deputies to come into the hall. 120th, Sold. Don't insist. 121st. Don't insist. 122nd. Don't insist. 126th, Lensky. Don't insist. 128th, Levechenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u4	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, the bill is, of course, important, but it's very important that in this bill it's essentially, I hope, by accident, because of the lack of work, because of the negligence, so that the rights of refugees are not reduced. The point is that the bill proposes to exclude information on refugee children from the refugee's license and travel document. But this approach creates the situation that refugee children will not be properly registered and will be outside the scope of legal regulation, because the bill does not specify at all whether refugee children will be issued the same document as adults or other types of documents or will not issue anything at all. And not even any justification was added to this legislative proposal in the explanatory note. Therefore, I propose that this paragraph should be deleted from the refugee's certificate to exclude the refugee's children from the bill so that the refugee's identification leaves information on the refugee's children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u5	Thank you. Please comment. Danchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u6	The committee didn't support this amendment, because it's very simple. Since refugee children who have not reached the age of 16 are going to be issued refugee certificates independent of age, so it's very simple, it's just not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u7	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Yes. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 128 People's Deputies of Lewchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:18:15]] For-80 The decision is not made. Next 129th, Sold. Don't insist. 131st, Sold. Don't insist. 133rd, Lensky. Don't insist. 134th, Levechenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone, 134th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u8	Thank you. This is my amendment to the same question, and I'm giving the reporter and this committee another answer, or whoever voted for it. I tell you that unfortunately, nowhere in this bill or in any other piece of legislation is it prescribed that children of refugees under the age of 16 will be issued with some kind of document. Maybe it's someone there who thinks it's going to be in law enforcement, in Kabmin, somewhere, maybe. But the law does not prescribe that. Appropriately, there is a gap, perhaps in fact, that children will be without any complete documents. And that's why I'm insisting on this amendment. If you fail this amendment now, in fact, as you first failed, at least I call on the conscientious national MPs a few dozen who are in this room to work on this issue and to make changes to legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u9	Please comment, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u10	This is exactly the kind of question that the refugee children, we're under 16 years of age, are going to be given the same paperwork as the parents. So this is going to be settled. We don't see any questions here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u11	Thank you. But I understand Lewchenko insists on voting. Therefore, the honourable colleagues who support the amendment of the 134 People’s Deputies of Lechchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[16:20:12]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to announce that there will be a vote in three minutes, a decision will be taken. The bill has a prior reconciliation with all factions. All we care about is that there's a sufficient level of MP mobilization. So I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies and heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of MPs. Next Amendment 138. Rent doesn't insist. 139th, Najem. Don't insist. 140th, Spanov. Don't insist. So we went through all the amendments that were proposed for the committee, also after what were not accepted. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, there was a discussion in the hall: some factions require a second reading. And for that matter, we need to make a joint decision. Let's maybe pass an important bill that is necessary to liberalize the visa regime for Ukraine. I wouldn't want to put him at risk. I'm going to put up a rating vote with your permission to see what level of acceptance it is. I'm asking the MPs to come in, take jobs, get ready to vote. Colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. The final consultations are held. Maybe we can take conflict moments out of this bill right now. Now, a brief consultation between the factions so that we can find a point of agreement. Colleagues, if it's possible to find a compatible compromise right now, why not lose two weeks, explain to me if now your representative might suggest an option when we place one of the points on confirmation and we can get out. Colleagues, we vote! So I'm betting first on the rating vote to check the mobilization of the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats and I'm betting on a rating vote to check the mobilization in the hall and ask everyone to take part in this vote. Everybody's in position. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please take part in the vote. Please vote. [[16:25:42]] For a hundred and 192 votes. Let's take another look. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a second reading again. Let's exchange thoughts, fellows, let's do a two-pronged bill, everyone agrees with it. Let's exchange thoughts on how we should be so that we don't crash the bill. I'll ask the factions to speak. Please, Jegor Sobolev, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u12	A very important decision, we support many of his ideas, but from the very beginning, there was hidden corruption, more specifically, the preservation of corruption. You know, there's now a state-owned enterprise called The Document that's doing passports on behalf of the state. And it's an old scheme when a government lining is created, which for more money provides services to citizens on behalf of the state. From the very beginning, we asked to clear the law from the fact that it was written there, and we would be happy to support it. Since this law was not planned at all today, it stood in order for the day to be four, the day to day according to yesterday’s data. Self-help offers a responsible, thorough study of each sentence and send the bill for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u13	Please, Vladimir Ariev. Mustafa! Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u14	I agree with my colleague Sergey Sobolev that there is really a question about this bill on the DP "Document." But the point is, at this point in time, the adoption of this law is a necessary condition, one of the conditions for visa-free treatment. We have to realize that. What's more, the changes that are now being put into the bill, they're going to liberalize it, and they're actually going to make it more transparent and they're going to make it a document. As for further innovations that can really be made with respect to the DP "Document". I propose that we actually negotiate this with the State Migration Service to make the work of this state-owned enterprise more transparent. There really is a question now, but there are service centers all over the country that provide these services. Even if we don't pass this law now, the lawsuits continue to apply for passports. So that's not going to change the fact that we're not going to adopt the law right now. We're just putting these conditions off for a while. We don't enforce the status of DP "Document" by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u15	Thank you. Who else would like to comment on this bill, colleagues? According to factions, are there any other factions? Please, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I want to say that all the remarks that were before the first reading were taken away from this bill. There's no way he's there. What Mustafa Nayem says. These issues are also addressed through a section, a physical section of these centers, which produces documents from customs centers and everything. There's no more corruption there. By not adopting this bill, we are simply dragging our state on the way to Europe to a lot of things because all the innovations in this bill are entirely in line with the recommendations of the European Union. In addition, a great deal of corruption will be killed. And so, very little, and this bill also makes passports and everything else cheaper. Gentlemen, it's impossible to make such a formal reference to such drafts, it's been out for four months.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u17	Thank you. Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, we must have some responsibility before we made commitments and told the European Union that we are finally meeting all the conditions signed in the Memorandum between Ukraine and the EU on visa-free liberalisation, we need to be consistent. I realize that we can delve into the details of the Mesozoic era, but if we do not accept this law today, then we will simply be told quite clearly and argumentatively that you are not fully fulfilling your obligations. And that is why we cannot today give any basis for our European partners to laud for visa-free treatment and Ukraine. So we need to vote on this law now, and if the problem is discipline, then we need to postpone this vote. I'm asking you very much, Mr. Andrey, put it back to the vote. But there's no way to postpone it because it's otherwise we're "putting goats in our hands" to those who are protesting today's visa-free regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u19	I agree with you, Mr. Vladimir. Let's call the deputies back into the room and I'll ask the faction secretariat and our deputies, because I'll tell you, 192 votes is close to making a decision. And if Self-Help were to make a decision on that matter, and if you could convince the faction, we would be able to make a decision. And I very much ask you, first of all, to call the deputies into the hall and hold final consultations. And I'd like to give the floor to Maxim Burbak of the People's Front. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I would like to support my colleague, Mr. Ariev, in that we must now concentrate and vote on this bill, after all. Because there is now a discussion in Europe about whether we should be granted visa-free status? But we've all made decisions that are very unpopular, but they are necessary to enable our citizens to move freely across Europe. Let's finally take the last steps to make it happen, and this will be a powerful signal to our Western partners that we are meeting all the requirements of our homework. And I'm addressing our colleagues from the Radical Party, we can break the writings on internal political issues, please go back to work and help Ukrainians drive without a visa in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u21	From the Radical Party, Igor Mosiychuk has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I'm a little off the subject of the bill, but I think it'll give you a chance to settle down and get to work with your colleagues. Dear colleagues, right now, in these moments, the Mayan Independence is carrying coffins with the bodies of Ukrainian patriots who died on the Baton Mine. I ask the Ukrainian Parliament to stop and for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the fighters who died protecting Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u23	I declare a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Everlasting memory of heroes. Colleagues, we've had our final consultations, please prepare for the vote, colleagues. I hope that the final consultations will work. I'm going to re-vote, I'm going to ask everyone to get ready to vote. Please take your jobs, please, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, I'm asking the factions to identify themselves in the end, we've had such a hard and long run of visa liberalisation bills, with such fights, and we don't have many bills to adopt, and that's one of those important bills. Dear colleagues! I ask everyone to participate in the rating vote. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats and take part in the vote, please. The radical party please join, in part, in solving this problem, thank you for your understanding, thank you for your position, and please vote. The rating vote, please vote, let us unite around the issue that will allow all Ukrainians without a visa to travel to Europe. Vote, colleagues, rating vote, please. [[16:35:37]] For 217 Dear colleagues! Seven votes. You've made up your mind about self-help? I ask you to put the vote on the ballot board. "Peter Prashenko's Block" is 96, "The People's Front" is 66, "The Self-Help" is 10, "The Rebirth Party" is 6, "The Radical Party is 8, "The Fatherland" is 9, "The Will of the People" is 7, "The Non-Factional" is 17. I'll make a recommendation to the committee first, if it doesn't work, I'll put the second one back together. Please mobilize self-help, well, there are five votes missing for decision-making, five votes missing for decision-making. Colleagues, I'll put it all together first. If it doesn't work, I'll re-read it. But we're going to lose a few weeks of time, a few weeks of time because of a few votes. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Are you guys ready? "Paternality"! Colleagues, I am voting on a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifying the person or his or her special status, aimed at liberalising the European Union's visa regime for Ukraine at the proposal of a second-reading committee and in general (No. 3224). I call on everyone to unite, and I urge everyone to make a responsible decision. Whoever supports the committee's position: in the second reading and in general, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:38:09]] For 222 I saw a few people come in during the discussion. I'll be back in a minute. Please enter the hall that is in the towers. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. Please take your seats, colleagues. I'll put it back once. If it doesn't work, I'll bet the second. Dear colleagues, if we don't vote now for the return, I'm going to propose a second reading. So I'm proposing to go back to voting 3224. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 3224, return to voting. Please vote. [[16:39:28]] For 214 214, we didn't have enough votes. I'm making the next proposal under the Rules to go back to the second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u24	And this is going to be a separate vote for short! This is going to be a separate vote. The first will be the vote on the fate of the bill. I ask everyone to unite so that we do not lose the bill, and I propose to return to the second reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his special status aimed at liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine (number 3224). Another reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. We vote not to lose the bill. Please read the second reading again. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:40:38]] For 246 Decision taken. Now there's a proposal from the authors for a reduced procedure, but it doesn't make sense, we're not going to have two weeks of plenary. Dear colleagues, fellow members of the committee, I ask you to work actively so that we can lift these warnings that are there. I was told that this bill was ready to be considered. So that we can vote before the second reading. So the decision is made. The next one is the bill of Law 4547, and Mr. Halasyuk is in the hall. Ready to go? All right. So the next one is in the process of reviewing the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of arbitrary procedures in the field of external economic activity. And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. I present to you the bill of 2498a, introduced by the government, which cancels export licences, imports, ethyl alcohol, cognac, fruit, alcohol, tobacco. It's a deregulation, it's a relief for external economic operations. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? I'll explain with very simple facts. Today, there are licenses in this area that are neither regulatory nor regulatory nor fiscal. These licenses cost 780 dollars, and these licenses bring less to the budgets than they spend on their administration. After a year, it's about 200,000 dollars, and it's going to be a much bigger amount to administer these licenses. It's about canceling these export, import licenses, leaving the license for wholesale trade, leaving the license for manufacturing, other relevant licenses. In addition, the bill proposes to cancel the need to obtain a license for wholesale trade in the event that all imported products are broken down. So it's about getting these tobacco, alcohol products, if they're imported by a store exclusively for sale on their own network, so they're not licensed by wholesale license. This will allow, as a minimum, not to raise prices for this product, but to the extent that it can even lower them. Dear colleagues, the committee supports this bill. He was sent to the second reading. Because it's really a license that's proposed to cancel, there's no regulatory effect, it's not a tool to fight illegal circulation. So this is going to be a simplification of bureaucratic pressure on business, prevention of corruption risks. But you can see for yourself what it is when the license costs 780 dollars. It's nothing for the budget, but it's the need to get it, it's a corrupting factor. This will also contribute to the increase in revenue to the budget, because you and I understand that there is an element of excise, which also fills this budget. Dear colleagues, from the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, I ask you to discuss this bill now. The committee decided to support it as a whole as a law with the necessary technical and legal rights. At the same time, taking into account the voting situation in the hall right now, I would like to postpone the discussion. Consider the bill now, but move the vote to the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u26	Victor Valeriyovich, we can't bear to make a decision. You may now ask the committee to pass this law, but not after consideration. Please state your position. If we are involved, we are already considering and making decisions. But as head of the committee, you have the right to ask him to move it. Make your proposal, realizing that these are the only two alternatives we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I think we can't risk this bill, let's postpone its consideration, because we understand that there are now sharp and painful issues that need to be addressed, including the tariff issues that we need to discuss. Let's put this bill together with other economic bills, take this deregulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u28	Please, Eugene, one minute. Eugene, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u29	Dear colleagues! I urge you to consider this bill because it provides for a difference in the filing of a report, which has been introduced for retail trade in subcontracting goods. And our business subjects were so unwilling to submit such a report, which was introduced on April 24, that a huge number of fines could now be charged. Since it is in this bill that we regulate the rule that such reporting does not apply to retailers, I ask you to consider this bill today and to abolish that order, which has led to significant, significant. And now entrepreneurs don't know what kind of world they're in. They can't file reports, and they're fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u30	Thank you. There was a report. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to his consideration, dear colleagues. Victor Pinzenik stressed to me that we had actually begun to consider the bill. And that's why we're going to the right. I'm asking the authors to prepare to discuss those rights. And I'm going to read them one by one. So, 2 orders, National Deputy Levchenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Turn on Yuri Leuchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u31	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District of Kiev. Well, first of all, I'd like to speak to the chairman publicly, that if we are now starting to consider this bill, then I insist that he then vote so that there is no transfer, because it will be a gross violation of the rules. I mean, if we're going to start looking at it, we should put it to a vote. Now, basically, it's my turn. Thank you very much for the report that the reporter said or, you might say, talked about what this bill would cause or could cause the loss of alcohol production. Well, you know, national MPs, I don't think there's any need in Ukraine to spend alcohol products when the nation is sung in front of us, when we have one of the biggest levels of alcoholism in Europe and the world, you're talking about a waste of alcohol. Indeed, if approved, this bill will result in the loss of alcoholic beverages. So my amendment is that if you take an import license, at least you increase the cost of a wholesale license.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u33	I propose to increase the cost of the wholesale trade license, which will now be left alone after these changes, if you approve them, twice, from half a million dollars to a million dollars, at least to compensate for this madness that you're now proposing. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u34	Thank you. You insist on voting, yes, Mr. Yuri. So I'm voting on Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Lechchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:50:14]] For 135 The decision is not made. 6 repairs, Opanasenko. Is it insisting? Please turn on Opanasenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, this amendment applies to small brewers. We know that there is now a law in Parliament that regulates advertising and the circulation of beer. And we realize that there is a high probability that it will not pass. I took this opportunity to submit this amendment to this law, which, in principle, was governed by a completely different, entirely different committee. If you remember, at the end of the 14th year, when we voted for the budget, we just introduced half a million dollars worth of licenses for small, small brewers, and this is a question we can't solve for a year and a half. If it's yours, please support, because it's a necessary amendment, it really solves the problem, legalizes the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u36	Do you insist on voting? Yes. So I'm voting on Amendment 6. Oh, please comment, excuse me. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, first of all, after Mr. Yuri's previous amendment, which was voted on, I would like to point out that the model proposed in the previous amendment is not effective. You have to tax it through excise duty instead of establishing such a huge license once, which essentially causes the reverse effect, there's not going to be any extra revenue to the budget. After this amendment, I would like to point out that it goes against article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, in addition to the issue of taxation, they belong to the competence of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, is Bill 2971D. Therefore, they are not subject to regulation of the bill. Here we are essentially removing administrative barriers to external economic activity. This amendment is therefore not considered by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u38	Thank you. So I'm voting for amendment number 6 of the Opanasenko People's Deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[16:52:42]] For 134 The decision is not made. The 7th amendment is rejected. National MP Lewchenko insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u39	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. First of all, once again, I'm going to report to the other people who are speaking. When it comes to the sale of alcohol or tobacco, the main question for the responsible national MP should be, not the filling of the budget, but the health of the Ukrainian nation. So when you talk about filling up the budget more or less, yes, excuse me, to the light bulb in this context, and when you talk about deregulation of a certain regulatory barrier, you need more regulatory barriers and regulation as much as possible, and you do everything you can not do to continue this total destruction of the Ukrainian nation, which is now happening when we have every other Ukrainian, everyone. Young people, all young people are singing. So, excuse me, even if this bill of yours, even if it's half-percent going to waste the cost of alcoholic beverages, it's impossible to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u40	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Whoever supports Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[16:54:18]] For 124 Amendment No. 8 of the Opanasenka People's Deputies. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. So we've gone through all the amendments that have been rejected, the hall has determined on the subject of these amendments and we can move on to the decision-making process. Please give the committee's chairman the final word: "Juganina Nina Petrovna" for one minute. And let's go to the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members to the Hall and also ask the factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u41	Dear colleagues! I propose that, under the transcript, the following proposal be accepted: section 3, paragraph 3, of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, equine and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products should be completed after paragraph 5 with the following new sub-paragraph: “Article 18 should be supplemented by a new part of the content: “The penalties for failure or failure to report or to report in time with unreliable information on the quantity of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products provided for in article 17, paragraph 18, of the second part of this Act shall not apply to operators who have obtained a licence for retailing alcoholic beverages and (or) tobacco products from the date of their notification.” Please support this amendment, for there was no previous problem when the text was written before the second reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u42	Thank you. But we have the head of the profile committee, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please, Mr. Victor, turn on the microphone for the closing word of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Once again, I would like to point out that the decision of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship was to support the bill as it was handed out to the room. This edition provides for the removal of artificial regulatory barriers, the exception of a non-budgeting license, no regulatory function, no prevention of tobacco or alcohol use, no prevention of counterfeiting or anything else. These are the artificial corruption standards that we propose to abolish by this bill. Therefore, there is a model that is fully in line with the Committee's decision, which corresponds to Article 116 of the Rules and the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship supports this edition, taking into account technical legal rights. At the same time, if the committee of Nina Petrovna Južanina introduces appropriate amendments, including support for small breweries, we will certainly be supporting this in the hall. But this must be done without violating Rule 116.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u44	30 seconds, please finish. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u45	So, Your Honor, I ask you to now put to the vote, to decide on the support for the bill, as proposed by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Thus, we will remove artificial administrative barriers that do not fill the budget, do not promote the health of citizens, but together create corruption risks. We're clearing this corrupt bureaucratic field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to let you know that we only need a rating vote to determine what decision we can make, or a second reading, or a return to read again? So it will have no effect in principle. The vote won't be postponed, I just want to let you know in advance. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're voting first on how the committee gave us. Yes, the first would be a motion for a vote, as proposed by the committee. So, colleagues, I'm conducting a rating vote and I'm asking all my colleagues to take part in the vote. No matter what the result is, then the law will stand in the vote. Please vote, colleagues, rating vote. [[16:58:59]] For 171 171. Dear colleagues! Can I count on more support for the second reading? To the others again. Please, Sobolev, Sergey Sobolev, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u47	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! This isn't about the amendments that are currently being read in the room, on a rather complex question, but this is a little bit different. Against the background of addressing the key issues of the same tariffs, we are now considering a question that is directly contrary to the European Union Directive in its part. Whoever wants and who works on this committee, raise 94 and 96 of the European Union Directive, which directly supports leaving import licences. I'm not talking about how we kill our own production. But if this is the position of the European Union, at least in this part of the second reading, this rule of law needs to be corrected. Therefore, our faction did not vote in favour of this law and suggested that it be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u48	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Nina Petrovna, please, too, in your speech, you've guided us, maybe in this case, for a second reading again, this will be the right way. Turn on the microphone, please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u49	See, we have a 2971d bill, where most of the rules are repeated. We have other bills that are very intertwined with the Halasyuk Victor committee. I think if we're sending this bill for re-reading, we need to get it out to the hall as soon as possible, or we need to put 2971d into the room. We have to solve a question that we haven't solved in over a year and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u50	You support the second reading proposal, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u51	Yeah, and what kind of short-circuit procedure is there to take to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u52	Okay. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to the position that Sergey Sobolev has heard because she has a reason. This is indeed about certain directives of the European Union that require technical licensing of imports. These norms need to be corrected, and so I ask my colleagues to support the vote: to re-read the second reading to amend -- and then to adopt the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we seem to have come up with a common decision. But according to the procedure, I'm going to put the committee's proposal first, and then I'm going to reread the second reading. But to make any decision, I ask everyone to come into the hall and take their seats, colleagues. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we are moving on to a decision, please. So I'm the first to propose to the committee: a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to shorten free-standing procedures in the field of external economic activity (No. 2498a) on second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. 2498a in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:02:46]] For-173 173 for. The decision is not made. I'll make the next offer. It's going to be re-read. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote on this proposal? I propose to re-read the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of free-standing procedures in the field of external economic activity (No. 2498a). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Second reading again, second reading again. [[17:03:41]] For-187 187. The offer is not accepted either. And actually this is the last proposal we could consider. We don't have any other proposals under this bill. And so, according to the vote, the bill of Law 2498a was rejected. Dear colleagues, we've passed the second reading block. Attention! I'll have everyone's attention, colleagues. We're through. Attention! - a whole package of "inclusion in the agenda of the day session" documents. I think, even though there's a chance for some of them to get into the order of the day session. We must now proceed to this procedure under the Rules, but it will require a fairly rapid vote. So I'm asking for maximum mobilisation, and I'm going to give every bill one of the authors a minute if it's necessary to justify the bill. If that's what it takes. Do you copy, colleagues? Let's move on to "inclusion in the agenda of the day session." Let's go, shall we? That's why we're starting. The first one standing. Colleagues, pay attention! The first is 4689, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. Would anyone like to make a statement on the basis of that law? It's from the authors, isn't it? Please, one minute. Alona Shkrum. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u55	Scrum, Alona, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, I very much ask that you listen carefully to the literally half - minute ones. This is an important bill, which has been drafted with volunteers, along with public organizations, along with Mr. Pashinsky's professional committee (supported by a profile committee), along with the Ministry of Defence. He deals with the issue of contracts for 9,000 military personnel who are now unable to terminate the contract and are expected to serve until the end of the special period of the so-called period. From the support of many of our colleagues from various factions. The authors include Taras Shepherd of Self-Help, Pashinsky, Tetjana Blackwall of the Profile Committee and the People's Front. He's completely off with volunteers and the Ministry of Defense. We just need to get it into the agenda, and I'm asking you very much, it's just an urgent problem for our state for a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? Is there any general support for this bill? I'm asking you to take up jobs, get ready to vote, colleagues. So I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service (number 4689). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:07:03]] For 214 Colleagues, I'm going to ask you to stop talking on the phone for just one second and listen to me carefully again. Colleagues, maybe that's what we're going to do? Look, there are now bills from different political powers, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session. If we support each other, we're going to get the result, we're going to get the result. If we don't vote each other in principle, we just won't have any results. Let's talk about this right now, I see, there are willing to speak, we exchange thoughts, we're missing literally a few votes to make a decision. Let's make some warnings. And I'll just remind you, it's just getting into the agenda. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, and faction leaders, and groups, please return everyone to the hall. A very important bill, it needs to be included in the session and voted on, because it's this law that we're going to allow the boys to release those who signed the contract and still can't get out. Please invite everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u58	Thank you. Hope of Savichenko and Victor Halasjuk, please. Hope of Savichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u59	What I'd like to say to you after my trip to the east. They say the army is demoralized. The boys are tired of serving, they don't know what they're doing there. I'll tell you, a soldier who doesn't want to serve isn't a soldier, and you can't make him. Real people need to be rotated. The law keeps people in a combat position. And there's no intelligent rotation every six months at least. And now actually contracts have been extended there for over a year, over two years. This law allows those who do not need to get out of war. And as the Ministry of Defense says, they have that kind of a turn, so basically there's someone to change. This law is needed to just let the boys go and replace them with others. Replace because you're just going to have corpses, and the suicides who just can't stand it are standing there. Let the boys go home, replace them with others!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u60	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, one minute. Then Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, the Radical Party faction proposes to supplement the agenda with the following bills: 4329 for free annual medical examination, dissipation of senior citizens; 4442 for the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. This is Bill 4217, Bill 4491, on the provision of free medical supplies to elderly citizens. 4549 is about energy service contracts, energy service upgrades. 4695 – protection of the legitimate rights of landowners. 4727 – on a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. 4741 – to promote the development of currency exchange transactions. Let's put these bills in order of the day. And the Radical Party faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u62	Mr. Victor, I very much ask you to listen to me carefully. Mr. Victor, can you hear me? So this morning, I announced: All the bills that were not considered by the committees for 30 days, if the subject of the legislative initiative were to be written to the head, they would all stand in the order of the day session, in the order of the day session. I guarantee you after processing all the names will stand to be placed in the order of the day session at the very beginning of next week, the beginning of our work. Just make sure these bills are there. At least they're more or less orderly. Do you have a deal, Mr. Victor? Please, Kishkar. Kishkar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u63	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine So let's go back to the question that we're looking at. And the point is that at the beginning of the war many people made contracts with the Ministry of Defence and other military formations with the phrase "before the end of the special period." Today we are. "special period," I'm sorry. At this point in time, this formulation creates tension in the ranks of our military formations, since humans cannot go on either rotation or to their families, in general, they are to serve forever. So let's get people good, let's get back to this question, read it carefully, and do everything we can to get an instrument like the rotation of military units to work properly, and people who have been on the front for over two years now have gone home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, in a minute, I'm going to put the bill of Helen Schkrum to the vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. One minute, Julia Timoshenko, please. Turn on the microphone. It's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u65	Dear Mr. Head! As you decided this morning that you should be addressed with letters to put the daily key urgent bills into order, we did just that in 15 minutes. Our letters are registered and they're already there, copies, in your reception room. And that's why I don't think we can put the lobbyist liquor laws in order, secondly, well, let's say it's so profitable for certain circles of things, but first, 2597 is a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to check the validity of tariffs. Bill 2832 needs to be put in place – this is about transparency in tariff formation and setting standards for those who consume without counters. 3216 is what applies to the directing of domestic gas to Ukrainian citizens. 4317 is what it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u66	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u67	4317 is the case for lowering the rent for a state-owned enterprise. And there are also two laws on deofshorization, and you know very well, 4380 and 4381. Everything else we put in the letter, you have it. We ask for tariffs for tomorrow or Thursday without delay. There are voices in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, are we ready to re-vote 4689? Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. Please, I'm betting again, we're out of literally a few votes, eight votes. Once again, I propose to include in the agenda of the day a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (No.4689). Those who support this proposal, colleagues, please vote. Vote, fellows! [[17:15:02]] For 229 Decision taken. Ms. Olena, Alana, made me a comment by Yuri Lewchenko that the bill had not been pre-witnessed, and he was unable to get acquainted, but nevertheless the hall supported your proposal, I welcome you. And the sooner we look at it. Colleagues, the next bill proposed. This is the draft Act amending Chapter I of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine (No.4739). Will anyone make a statement on the basis of this law, or is it united? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there any point in putting it to a vote? It makes sense, doesn't it? Then I'm betting, if no one's justified, on voting the proposal to put the draft Law 4739 into the agenda of the day session. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the 4739 session in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[17:16:20]] For 212 We didn't have enough votes. Is there any point in putting it again? I would like to remind you that voting for inclusion in the agenda does not require a return, does not require a return. Dear colleagues, if you have the ability to mobilize, I'll put it again. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. I'm re-voting the proposal to include in the agenda the draft Law 4739. Whoever supports this initiative, please vote 4739. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:17:14]] For 228 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. Next 4555. Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code Is there anyone who wants to stand up for this bill? Don't put him to the vote. I don't vote. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning election of seniority. This is, the law number 4091. Does anyone want to make a statement on the bill? This is the Committee of Master Sergei. None. Yes. Please, Mrs. Olena Bodnar. Turn on the microphone. Bodnar. Turn on the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Boyko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! It is a great request to support our decentralization and to support our voluntary association of communities. The bill proposes to amend part fourteen of the sentence. 1 and 26 of the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine in order to give counsel on voluntary union self - determination: Whether they need old age and how much, or in every inhabited area of old age, or perhaps one of the elders will serve a number of inhabited areas. This is a request from the Ukrainian City Association supported by our committee and a request to support this very important bill for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for decision-making and employment. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on election of old age. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[17:19:19:19]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The next draft of the Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the acquisition of powers of rural, rural and urban heads is 4110. Does anyone have a desire to defend this bill? Voting, supporting. Okay. Then I ask for employment, and I put to the vote the day-to-day session the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the acquisition of rural, rural, city heads - 4110. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote, please. [[17:20:18]] For 231 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. Next draft of the Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure long-term commitment within the framework of the State-Private Partnership (No. 4565). Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u71	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, for formal reasons, I would recommend not to include this bill in the agenda. It applies to the Budget Code, which is the mandate of the Ministry of Finance. The law is passed by the Ministry of Economics at the negative conclusion of the Ministry of Finance. Such a law cannot be considered as an immediate conclusion of the Ministry of Finance. I suggest we send this bill to the government, let him figure out who's in charge of the finances, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economics?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, is there any point in putting the vote to the vote? There's no point in putting it to a vote, and I'm not putting it to a vote. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on corporate contracts (number 4470). Please, Birdman, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, you and I are here talking so much about the need for de-offshoring, but we are not making any changes to our corporate legislation with a view to doing business right in Ukraine so as not to structure a deal abroad. Corporate legislation is so attractive that all activities are carried out in Ukraine. This bill provides for the establishment of the Institute of Corporate Contracts and allows companies to operate in a way that is agreed in a company of shareholders and members of limited liability companies by means of corporate contracts. This is a deregulation, let's put it in the order of the day session I'm sure it can unite all the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote the day-to-day session the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for corporate contracts) No. 4470. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on our colleagues. [[17:23:09]] For 210 210. Is there a need to put it again? Let's go. You don't make decisions. Next: 4036 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on clinical trials of medical devices. Is Ola the Mantis in the Hall? Ola the Mantis, there's a need to speak up. Who, after this bill, could please turn on the microphone for one minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! This bill introduces compulsory insurance when research is done on patients or on volunteers. I'm asking you to support this bill right now, because it's been a long time since you actually introduced insurance when you did clinical research. Thank you very much, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u76	Thank you. Let's do one thing at a time, shall we? Mrs. Oksana, are you suggesting we support him? Let's support that. What's the use? Then, honourable colleagues are asked to support the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on clinical trials of medical devices (No. 4036). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:24:48]] For 197 197-yes. There is no support in the room. Let's move on to the next one. Next: Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights during the Movement of Goods across the Customs Border of Ukraine (No. 4614). 4614. Is there anyone who would like to protect the bill? None. May I put it to the vote? Is there any support in the room? Governmental, yes. Okay. Dear colleagues, this is a government bill. And I am voting for the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine (No. 4614). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:25:59]] For-187 187 for. The decision is not made. Next 4414. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of administrative offences in the border area (No. 4114). It's government again. Excuse me, this is an MP. Please turn on the microphone. Lensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u77	Oh, Logwinsky. Excuse me. I'm getting a headache here. Logwinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u78	Dear friends, I would like to explain why this bill is so important. There are currently in Ukraine any sanctions of any size that are ridiculous. That is, when Russians violate ours. The border of our state, the Border Service fines them 75 dollars, that's $3 -- that's what we fine for violating our borders. That's impossible. They are. We have to fix this. It is this bill that foresees appropriate changes. But we must protect our state, our borders. That's why I'm asking you to support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. Thank you very much. This bill on Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of administrative offences in the border area (No. 4114). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:28:11]] For 208 208. My colleagues, I'm just looking at the board, and I feel like all the factions are supporting this bill. They just might have been too careful. Am I wrong? Does that make any more Please, Chubarov. One minute, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I would like to vote again in favour of this bill 4114 on the conduct of administrative offences in the border area. But really, as a colleague of Logwinsky has said, the adoption of this law will make it impossible for such, you know, practically unpunished mass wrongdoing by foreigners in the border area. I would like to re-vote this bill on the inclusion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u81	Let us take the advice of both Logwinsky and Chubarov for inclusion, with a few votes missing. I, with your permission, will put him to the vote again, and I ask you to mobilize as much as possible, colleagues. Please, colleagues, I once again propose that the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on administrative offences in the border area be put into order. (No. 4114) Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:30:06]] For 209 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask the National MPs to come into the hall. We now have the next impeccable bill 4563, which is a bill that reformes the security forces towards NATO reform, in particular that bill we initiate and support the creation of special operations forces. And I'd like a colleague of the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. When they yell at me from the hall, "Where's the coalition?"I want to inform you that the issue of supporting our citizens of Crimean Tatars is not a matter of coalition and opposition. The issue of supporting the Ukrainian Armed Forces is not a matter of coalition and opposition. And who thinks so, sorry, has a distorted notion of the security of our country. As long as we don't play here as one collective national, and we share, we won't be able to effectively protect our country. I'd like to invite Irina Fries to the floor. And please listen to her words. Please turn on the microphone. Irina Fries, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I address everyone without excluding the factions. I have a huge request to pay attention to the importance of adopting this bill. In particular, start by putting it into the agenda. This bill is legally binding on the power of special operations. So we're creating a legislative framework for them to be able to carry out the special tasks that command them. I'm asking everyone, regardless of whether we're opposed or not, to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, I will only add to what is happening today in the Parliamentary Assembly, the working group of Ukraine-NATO, where we are discussing the prospects for Ukraine's accession to NATO. And this reform is one of the most important reforms in modernizing the Ukrainian Armed Forces and bringing them into line with NATO standards. It's very nice to give videos about NATO and hang the nato boards. We need our decision to support this way of reforming the Armed Forces. And I'm giving Nadia Savchenko one minute to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u84	This reform is read out by many military forces. We needed it yesterday, because Russia's doing it if it's fighting pretty good on our Donbassy right now. We actually have a lot of structures that haven't justified themselves. There used to be such a beautiful structure of the GRU. Much has been done through the illustration of the people. We can't trust him. We need to build a battle fist, just like a special unit in which people will be represented, but at the same time professionals. We can't fill this niche with anything but this S.O.S. Create this law, it is now needed to protect Ukraine in the back of the enemy and on the front and inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to come into the hall, please. I am convinced, for some reason, that the Radical Party will also vote in favour of this bill, regardless of its political position, because it concerns security, and in that respect, the Radical Party has always taken a consistent position on security issues. I remind you of the power of special operations, the company. The establishment of an operational headquarters for the management of various types of troops is what was most lacking at the beginning of the war, which was the most lacking when the diversans of Putin and Russia entered Ukraine. We have a chance to implement this reform. I'm asking you to take your seats, including the members of the Radical Party, and that'll be right, it'll be responsible. Mr. Andrew, this will be right and responsible. Colleagues! I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft law amending some of Ukraine's defence laws, No. 4563. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Let's build up the Ukrainian army. [[17:34:50]] For 225 We're short one vote. One voice. Dear colleagues, who in their own voice supports the army? You're ready, aren't you? We're taking up jobs. I'll put it to the vote again. Please, Vineyard, one minute. Andrew Lozova. By that law, Andrew? By that law. Please. Yes, 1 minute Andrew Lozova. I think he's going to give his votes to the Radical Party and we're going to vote. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u86	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. We had just arrived with colleagues Igor Mosiyczuk, Volodymyr Parasuk, and Dmitr Link at the funeral. I came here a minute ago to say good-bye to the dead fighters of the Right Sector, who gave their lives -- the most expensive two young boys for the self-congregation of Ukraine, and in this Council, people can't just press the green button. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a conscience! Because the war will come here!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u87	Colleagues, I ask you to proceed to the vote, and we will now speak this bill and fail it. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote. A radical party, please take your seats. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft law amending some of Ukraine's defence laws (No.4563). Please vote. Please support the Ukrainian army. Let's vote, colleagues. 4563. Vote. [[17:36:47]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I'll just say one minute of the important question. What I've already said is there are a lot of fighters here in this room who went straight from Midan to the front, who went straight from Maidan to the National Guard Battalion, to Idar, to Azow, because then we had no army. If we had the Special Operations Force back then, we wouldn't have suffered so many casualties and losses. I think on national security and defence issues there's no coalition and no opposition, there's no tribune block, and there's got to be a common position, one Ukrainian front with the boys on the front. And I urge you not to do any more political speculation on matters that increase our national security. I welcome Irina Fries and the authors of the law to make this responsible and important decision. I beg you, let's move on to the next order of the day. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Elimination of Administrative Barriers to Export Services) (4496). Is there anyone? A bird. Two performances of the Birdman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I am sure that we are now being watched by Freelancers, architects and designers, lawyers, accountants, audiences, people who provide services in the fields of culture, science, advertising, media and real estate, because this bill proposes to introduce simplified procedures for all those who export services. So I ask you to back it up and put it in the order of the day session so that at least we can start this discussion because it simplifies and removes the administrative barriers of all those who export services abroad. At the same time, I would like to address my self-help colleagues, because they did not vote in favour of my previous bill and ask them to support the bill independently of who is the author of it, because at least in this bill, two of your members of the faction are also signatories. I'm sure you'll vote depending on the content, not who's initiating the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u89	Thank you. One more minute, dove, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u90	Thank you. Vladislav Golub, Petra Poroshenko Block faction, 197 constituency, Cherkaščina. I want to continue to say what my colleague said about this bill. You know, we're all talking a lot about how we're trying to create good investment conditions in our country and this bill, in particular, we want to remove the archaic and artificial administrative barriers to the export of services. In particular, I'm just going to stop at a few of the new things that the bill provides. The bill stipulates that the customary document for external economic contracts will now be not only a written contract but directly an account, or an invasion. The contract is also envisaged in electronic form, not in writing as it is now. It is also envisaged that banks should not now require a translation into English, but that there will also be sufficient contracts in English and many other novels. You know, another important factor is the gradual liberalisation of monetary legislation, which we all talk about so much to make beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u91	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u92	To create good investment conditions in Ukraine. In particular, in this bill, as my predecessor said, there are a lot of interested representatives, Freelancers, lawyers, IT spheres, a lot of people who are actually working to export services from Ukraine. Let's make money come into our country and our nation can further develop its business attraction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to remove administrative barriers to export services) (number 4496). Whoever supports this proposal, I ask you to vote. Please vote. [[17:41:47]] For 219 Six votes was not enough. We didn't make it, did we? Please, colleagues, take your jobs. I'll put it back on. Help me gather the voices. Seven votes missing, seven. So if there is political will, we vote. I'll do it again. So, colleagues, I'm once again making a proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] So once again, I propose to include in the agenda of the day a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to remove administrative barriers to the export of services (number 4496). Just putting the day-to-day session back in order, please. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:43:09]] For 229 229 for. The decision is made, welcome to the drafters, and welcome to the committee with a decision to make. Next: 4557. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Investment Act on State Investment Projects. 4547. Is there anyone who would like to make a statement on the bill? This is a government bill. Colleagues, whether or not to put him to the vote? I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a bill amending the Ukrainian Investment Act on State Investment Projects. 4547 and 4547-1. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:44:22]] For 190 190 for. The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, we have more, I see, time. They didn't make it. I'll put it again, no problem. But I don't see any prospects. Please come into the hall, I'll set it up again. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. I'll put it to the vote again. Ready? So I'm voting again on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Investment Act on State Investment Projects (No. 4547, 4547-1). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:45:23]] For-200 200 for. I told you there wasn't enough. When 220, me. We can mobilize. There wasn't enough. Dear colleagues, there are two other important bills that are necessary for cooperation with the IMF. And I just have to put them in order so that we can get them into the agenda of the day session. This is 4536, 4536-1 and 4799. These are two important bills. If we include them in the agenda of the day session, we can look at them on Thursday. Bills are important for cooperation with IMF. Your will, as you vote, but I will place them now, they have been certified in the order of the day session. So 4536 and 4536-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized in Certain Agricultural and Transport Areas. 4536 and 4536-1. Is there anyone in the hall who can protect these bills, colleagues? Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, the Head of the Supreme Council, said that the bill was included in a package of laws related to cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. But I want to emphasize what this is about. First of all, we have the option of choosing between a government project and an alternative project that our colleague, Alexy Musak, submitted. But it is about privatizing those objects that breathe in incense, after which it is time to make decisions. They don't give money to money, no jobs, no taxes, no wages to people. I ask my colleagues to support the introduction of the bill, and we will discuss the details of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u95	Please, Julia Timoshenko. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, I am respectfully referring to expert opinions, but what is involved in privatization during aggression, the external aggression of the Kremlin seems to me to be unacceptable. And how can ports be privatized during the war? They're breathing in our frankincense because they're being robbed, they're not being controlled, they're actually being poured out. And that's why we have everything in our system that belongs to the state, because no one is concerned about public interests, and that's why privatization has to be done first when the war is over; secondly, when privatization procedures are fair and clean and not as corrupt as they are today, and thirdly, when we're capable of involving real investors, not again Cyprus money. What are we doing? Why private objects belonging to senior officials are not privatized because war, and the state, is poured out because they want to privatize practically free of charge. So against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, it's not a discussion, it's not a discussion. I suggest we move on to making a decision. We listened to the word "for" and the thought against it. Now we vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda of the day a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On List of Subjects of State Property Rights" that are not subject to privatization (4536 and 4536-1). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:49:25]] For-138 The decision is not made. Next 4799. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects Not Subject to Privatisation. In fact, this discussion has already taken place. I'll put it to a vote. Who supports the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (No. 4799). Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[17:50:15.]] For-137 The decision is not made. My colleagues, I would like to emphasize to you what law is extremely important today. Attention! There's a bill that allows us to start a procedure for amending the Law on the Cleaner of Power. And I would like to point out that if we start this procedure, there is no right in the Constitutional Court to put this bill on the table. This is Bill 2695. I would like to stress once again that at the moment when Parliament began its consideration, the Constitutional Court should be suspended. Now we only have the opportunity to give a positive signal to put it into the order of the day session. Let's exchange our thoughts now. Now we're having an exchange of thoughts, but I'm asking you to mobilize. Now, please, Lechchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u98	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I'm talking to the chairman right now. Of course, this bill should be included in the agenda for various reasons. And because we have to stop the vacchanal that's being done in the Constitutional Court. And because we need to change legislation. I'm asking you not to distract the chairman right now, please. It should be included in the daily routine – 100 percent. It's just that, Mr. Andrey, I'm talking to you. There's been some kind of unfortunate mistake. There are three alternatives to this bill, apart from itself, and every time we include, you know, the Rules include automatic and basic and alternative. I, for example, along with other liberating MPs, was the author of an alternative bill that we think is better than that, yes. So please, if you're going to put it to a vote now, please note that not only this one, but all the alternatives to the bill to it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u99	With your permission, I'll make this offer out of the voice, and that'll be enough for a stenographer. This one and the alternatives to it. Yegor Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! A great request to all who are now in the hall to vote in favour of this decision. On the one hand, this is our cooperation with the Venice Commission, which is very worried that the illustration in Ukraine will come out. On the other hand, this is an extension of the illustration to the candidates of the National Deputies and to the Presidents. Those who travel should inform the electorate whether they are subject to the Law on the purification of power. It's a very good idea, which is 15 months in Parliament. Asked to start looking at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u101	Thank you. Please, Timoshenko. Then it's Yemen. One minute, Timoshenko, Yemen. Then it's Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u102	I want to say right now that our faction is going to vote in favour, because we need to stop this constitutional court hearing about the cancellation of the illustration that has already begun. But at the same time, I draw your attention, Mr. Head, that this bill was not passed by a committee. We're going to vote, but I'd like there to be no double standards. If there are 14 bills that are not passed by a committee, rather than by tariff, our draft regulations and bills simply because they have not passed a committee, this is an unequal view of the same laws in the same status. So on Thursday, I ask you to ask the first question about all of our projects concerning the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry on tariffs, as well as the three bills that regulate the tariff situation and will be able to lower them. I'm asking you here to meet our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u103	Leonid Yemen, one minute. Please. Leonid Jemetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u104	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, in fact, we will discuss the bill during its discussion. And today and at this point, Parliament is being tested on a simple question: who wants Janukovic's staff to come back, who wants these people to be able to continue to rule the Ukrainian state, will not now vote for the inclusion of the bill. And those who want these people to be held accountable at least by the Lulution Act, if law enforcement is no longer in place, they must now support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, I will give my word only I very much ask you not to leave the hall right now, an extremely important decision so that we don't talk about it or vote down, colleagues. Royal, one minute. Drevijanko, Kishkar, 3 speeches and a vote. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u106	Respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u107	And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, here you are passing an unconstitutional law, then accusing the judges of the Constitutional Court. Now you want to pass another unconstitutional law, look again for the guilty. Yeah, because you write a list of who you can work with for life, we'll confirm, we'll split up, yeah, and everything will be fine. Well, as much as you can rub people's heads in. For 5 months now, displaced persons are not paid, people with disabilities, single mothers, pensioners, disabled persons are without pay. This issue is not being addressed in the Parliamentary Chamber. Tomorrow, the Chernobyls are taking part in protests because the issue of payments to the Chernobyl community is still unresolved. And we're sitting here, and from morning to night, we're sharing our portfolios with whom and where to work. The Opposition Unit therefore insists that the day of social affairs be held in Parliament and that the issues that are now most relevant and urgently needed to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u109	Wooden girl, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u110	Yuri Derevyanko, Political Party of Will. Dear colleagues, I call on everyone to support the inclusion of this bill, as well as other alternative bills, which relate to amendments to the Illustration Act. I want to remind you that this was the demand of Maidan and all of you, the political parties and factions present here, have made a commitment to our citizens not to return the rematch they are trying to make today's regionals, oligarchs and others, by canceling through the Constitutional Court the Law on Illustration. Few judges who allowed Yanukovich to usurp power in 2010 today are considering this law in the Constitutional Court without fully recognizing the conflict of interest. I call on our colleagues from the Radical Party to support this bill now, to include it in the agenda and all alternatives. Let's show will, let's not allow the rematch and the rematch of the regions, and the counter-revolution in part of the cleansing of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u111	The last performance is Kishkar. The final speech, and I ask all the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, in one minute, let's move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u112	Dear friends! I actually wanted to ask the Radical Party to take their jobs, even their thoughts. I was a little ahead of my offer. Thank you for making that decision. In fact, there are no options, and a sick society should be treated, including through illustrative processes. Clearly, the procedures currently under way in the Constitutional Court need to be stopped. Society must be cured, and this law must be put into the order of the day, this is the proposal of the People's Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-14-m1.u113	So, colleagues, I'm putting a responsible decision to the vote, I'm asking you to come into the hall, take the jobs. So, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on cleaning up power (number 2695) for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. [[17:59:25]] For 206 206. I'll put it again, colleagues, I'll put it again. I ask you to turn it on, I ask you to include it in factions and I'll put it to the vote again. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the issue of the cleansing of power (2695). Whoever supports this decision, please vote on our colleagues. [[18:00:17]] For 208 208-for, I'm afraid. Today's decision was not supported, but we'll be back on Thursday, and we'll try to put the session back in order. We can do better tomorrow or Friday. Dear colleagues! We have adopted a number of important, responsible laws today. It was a difficult but effective day. Thank you to all deputies for their active and productive work. At that evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work. And I very much ask everyone to be disciplined at 10 a.m. to come to work.
