ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we register? I'm asking the National Deputies to register. Please. [[10:04:17]] 306 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Elena Alexandrovna Matuzko. We welcome her on her birthday. Hello, colleagues. [[Applause]] Today, in a plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the government are taking the lead with Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine. Welcome to the government, welcome to the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Let me remind you, for the first 30 minutes, these are oral and written questions and the answers of ministers. The first will be the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Andriy Alexiyovich Reva, and then the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Eugene Mikolayovich Niszczuk. Then there will be 30 minutes of questions to the government from the national deputies of Ukraine. It's not factions, it's MPs. So I invite you to the report of the Minister of Social Policy, Andrey Alexiyovich Revou. Andrey Alexiyovich. Please, Andrew Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u2	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable National Deputies, Your Honorable Attending! The topic of my speech today concerns the topical issue that is widely discussed by the Ukrainian public, namely the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the increase in the minimum wage in Ukraine since 1 January 2017. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this decision was not spontaneous. The government's operational plan of action, approved on 27 May 2016, contained in section IV of Social and Humanitarian Policy, a task aimed at increasing the cost of work and increasing the social protection of working citizens to the IV quarter to develop a new methodology for determining minimum wage, which would allow it to be set at a level higher than the subsistence minimum for working persons with the aim of encouraging citizens to work, legalising employment and increasing income for all levels and social insurance funds. Thus, the reform has been carried out with ministries, trade unions, and employers for the past six months. A particularly thorough analysis of the state of pay in the country was made when the general agreement was concluded with the parties to the social dialogue, since the situation in this area is critical. Thus, the approved minimum wage is only 47 percent compared to the actual subsistence minimum, which (composes) contributes to the spread of poverty. I'm asking you to show the first slide, first. So if we have the ratio of January 2014 to the approved legislative minimum of living was only eleven-and-a-half percent, now the ratio is about 50 by 50. While the minimum wage, compared to January 2014, has changed by only 31.4 percent in December of this year. The estimate is that the price index for consumer goods and services will be 201 percent. I'm asking you to show slide 2. Look. When prices go up almost three times, the average wage goes up (we're going to look at this slide now), the minimum is only 31.4 percent. Also, the unwarranted level of minimum wage shows that the average wage from January 2014 to September 2016 has increased by almost 70 percent and the minimum wage by only 19. And according to the ratio, which in civilized countries is at least 50-60 percent between the minimum wage and the average wage, in Ukraine today is less than 30 percent. The Ukrainian State Budget project for 2017, submitted by the government to the Supreme Council on September 15, predicted that the minimum wage would increase by 10.1 percent over the next year, with an increase in the inflation index of 8.1 percent. This year, for example, with the inflation index rising 12 percent, the minimum wage will increase by 16.1 percent. According to the Eurostat Consumer Price Index, the inflation index in September 2016 was 101.8 per cent compared to August, and in January-September it was 106.4. So with the planned inflation index of 12 percent per year, the actual inflation index was only 6.4. These figures were calculated on the basis of approved macroeconomic indicators on a valid legislative basis in the area of pay. But we all realize that the trend that we've planned for it to increase the minimum wage doesn't solve those systemic problems that are caused by low pay levels. Therefore, a second reading by the Government of Ukraine is initiated to include in the next year's budget projects the result of a pay reform that can only be achieved with the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a possible result of raising the minimum wage to 3200, which is twice as high as planned since January 2017. Why 3,200 dollars? There were and continue to be various proposals: 2,500, 4.5, 5,000, 7,000 dollars, and so forth. Let me remind you that, according to the Pay for Work Act, the minimum wage can't be lower than the minimum wage. Taking this social standard into account when determining minimum wages provides for the minimum social needs of citizens in the consumption of goods and services. At its meeting on October 11, this year, the government approved updated food sets, non-food items, and services to determine the actual subsistence minimum. By the way, this has been done for the first time in 16 years since the implementation of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. An estimate of the value of these sets and determined the value of the real subsistence minimum in 2017 of 3200 bracelets. So the minimum wage will meet the actual social standard, as required by the law. And this will be achieved in Ukraine for the first time in years of independence. What does that mean? And the fact that this level can protect low-income workers, reduce poverty among working citizens and families with children, encourage those working citizens who do not work and receive social assistance. The question is, where do you get the resources? We state that there will be no need to print money, to borrow, including externally to cover these expenses, nor will taxes be raised. In order to raise the minimum wage, there is a resource in the economy of Ukraine, for the work of the people is greatly undervalued. We have the lowest minimum wage in Europe, among the former Soviet countries only Tajikistan behind us. So the main resource is the effect on legalization, the output of part of the wages from the shadow. Let me remind you, we took the first step in this direction last year, reducing the only social contribution for employers from 38 to 22 percent. Businesses were able to save resources to raise wages. Most entrepreneurs have done so, and we are deeply grateful to them as a government. Sadly, though, there are those who ignored this objective need. About 30 percent of employees receive wages of up to 2,000 dollars. Of them, according to the Pension Fund, think about this figure, colleagues, 47,000 managers of private businesses in Ukraine have a salary of 1,450 dollars, 47,000 managers. I'm not talking about the main accountants of these companies anymore. Obviously, all their employees, including those who are qualified, are paid the same salary officially. So the second step towards legalizing wages is to bring the minimum wage level closer to the labour market price. Now for the state of affairs in the budget area. There are warnings about the problem of balancing the salaries of qualified and unskilled budget workers after raising the minimum wage to 3,000,200 dollars. It has been reported by the government that when the minimum wage rises, it is proposed to increase the salary of the employee of the first level of the single tariff grid to 1,600 dollars, i.e. to the size of the approved subsistence minimum for working citizens. That is, the salary of the staff member of the first tariff level of the single tariff grid will be increased by almost 44 percent compared to January 2016, thus eliminating the gap of 265 bracelets between this figure and the approved subsistence minimum. The salaries of budget workers will increase accordingly, with an average increase of 50 percent. And you can see on slides that the salaries of budget workers are differentiated, and so the pay levels of employees will vary depending on the qualifications and complexity of the jobs. For example, the salary paid by a professional physician of a higher category, assigned to the thirteenth level of a single tariff network, will be between 4 thousand 940 dollars and 8 thousand 475 dollars, taking into account the size of the allowances established by the legislation and the higher category from 3 000 960 to 4 000 230 dollars, since its position is assigned to the tenth tariff level. By the education staff. This year, the government, under the initiative of the Ministry of Education of Ukraine, increased its tariff levels for teachers by two levels. And so the growth rate of their salary is going to take into account the 1 January increase. In particular, the salary paid by the teacher of the higher category, which will be attributed to the 14th grade, and last year it was 12th place, from 1 January 2017 it will be from 5,000 266 bracelets to 6,000 841 bracelets, a teacher without a category of 3,000 960 to 4 000 853 bracelets. So the salary is going to be one and a half, twice as much as the minimum wage. I mean, the equation, I don't think I should go here. Now, briefly, what legislative changes are needed for the adoption of the State Budget Act with a minimum wage of 3,000, 200 dollars. First of all, it is not to apply the minimum wage as a calculated amount when the increase in the minimum wage automatically leads to the recalculation of other payments and requires additional costs. So you have to take down all the artificial limitations on the minimum wage increase, define its primary role as the lower wage limit for the full month worked. This approach to minimum wage is applied in international standards and practices in all European countries. Today, for example, in our country, the salary of a local court judge, who is installed and tied to a minimum wage, is 10 minimum wages. With the minimum wage increase since January 1, the judge’s automatic salary will increase by 16,000 if we do not untie. So the poor themselves get 1 000 600, and the judge gets 16,000 supplements right away. Thus, it is necessary to stop applying the minimum wage in the construction of wage schemes for individual employees, such as judges, NABU employees, prosecutors, the Court of Auditors, civil servants, the State Bureau of Investigation and others. In addition, the minimum wage indicator is widely used to determine fines, administrative services, court meetings, taxes, and so on. It is also planned to remove these artificial limitations. If we leave a link to the minimum wage, we do not commit, for example, to corrupters, to corrupters, to corrupters, to increase the amount of responsibility twice. And that means that many people can simply escape responsibility for their actions. You can't let that happen. Next, if we do not separate ourselves from the size of the judicial congregation, we will limit the right of people to appeal to a court, since the judicial congregation they have to pay will double. The same applies to the licence fee. Along with the draft State budget, a bill was submitted to amend the previously introduced Bill 5130, which included proposals for changes to legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the approval of these changes will allow for the establishment of a social guarantee in the state budget for the following year in the area of low-income workers worth 3,000, 200 dollars, which will actually affect the situation of poverty in the country, protect low-income workers and allow other important social reforms to be carried out. I want to point out that we are continuing to work to increase the level of citizen pension. Establish justice in the accrual of pensions, depending on the length of the insurance and the contributions paid, the modernisation of pensions granted in previous years. The Prime Minister of Ukraine has given appropriate instructions to the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, and we are working on this and are planning to make these proposals in the near future. So we act incrementally, understanding the logic of these actions, that at first we raise wages for the workers, we get the necessary resources, and then we use that resource to raise other social standards. The government looks forward to your support, distinguished national MPs. Presidential position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u3	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u4	Yeah, yeah. The position of the President, the position of the coalition is publicized by the head of state. But we think it's not just the majority, it's about the whole Ukrainian Parliament, it's about the whole Ukrainian society. That's what Ukrainian citizens expect of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. And now the speech is given to the distinguished minister of culture, Eugene Nietschuk. And then the Ukrainian national deputies will be able to sign up for their questions to all government officials, including those who are now presenting their programs from our rostrum. Mr. Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u6	Honorable Presidium, Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Members of the Government, Honourable National Deputies, Dear Ukrainian People! Within 15 minutes, I have the honour to highlight the unique theme of our cultural development. And the subject of my report will be a new philosophy in shaping cultural politics. Dear, dear colleagues, we all want to change in different fields, including the creation of new mechanisms for cultural policy. The Ukrainian community is now looking to the Ministry of Culture for consistent, complex, systematic actions on the chosen path of reforming the country. But the changes in the middle of action on the chosen path of reforming the country create the basis for a bright presentation of us out there that they want us to see, what we can see, what we can see, what we are finally in the world. I'd like to start with pragmatism, not just talking about how important culture and spirituality are, it's obvious, and nobody in this room is going to deny it. Just like the importance of developing Ukrainian language, which is the basis of our national identity and the instrument of grouping the nation, it is also obvious. I'm going to talk about specific mechanisms that already implement Mincultures for achieving the same spirituality, for cultural development, for the overall development of the personality, for the aesthetic education of young people, for the development of human resources, which will improve completely in all areas: economic, social. Call it what you want, all spheres of human life will be developed by our efforts in the field of culture. So in order to change the model established in Soviet times, we need to reform the governance system in the cultural field. Where to begin? We started off as we were supposed to. First, we reorganized the ministry, we got new functions, we didn't belong to the Ministry before, but which, in time, is what society needs to do. We've changed the position on the Ministry of Culture, expanded the scope of competence, activated the sphere of influence. The next step is to reform those institutions that are in our sphere of influence. A little later, I'll stop at specific examples. And of course, the next step that we're working on effectively is the modernisation of cultural local institutions. All of this has been and is reflected in the priorities of Minculture, the government, and all of this is being done effectively. That is, the transformation takes place from top to bottom, and horizontal connections are also being updated. Communications are also being transformed inside the governance system, inter-agency relations, and the model of the government is "human-civil society". At least we've been trying to sew up this gap in recent years. Aphoristically, all actors, all of society's steakholders are involved in the new scenario. We went to international organizations for help. And in recent times, we have certainly felt a positive reaction. This is correlated with our European integration progress. First. We have addressed the Council of Europe, and the following year we will have an overview of cultural policy in Ukraine focusing on cultural heritage and decentralization processes in the cultural sphere. These semi-academic, semi-practical results will be used in the work of Minculture and local authorities to reform the system of governance and the implementation of cultural policies. The other one. This is our call to the European Commission for a process and functional audit of the Ministry of Culture itself. Yes, we are in the process of reorganizing, but does it satisfy all these needs today? Whether this is correlated with the best examples of other countries in the world and not one but the largest majority, because in one country, it's good with an inheritance, in another country with a theater, in the third country with a circus, in another country with a movie, and in another. At the end of November, we're signing a contract with the European Commission, and I'm sure we'll sign it, which will open a window of opportunity for such a functional audit. By the way, another of our top priorities in fighting corruption, and this is correlated with the government's priorities in the anti-corruption sphere. If we're talking about examples that have already been successfully implemented even within our current structure and current legislation, that's certainly the case for everyone, and I'm proud and I'd like to stress it, this is an example of the Frankfurt Book Fair that recently took place. I emphasize that these events, international events, are not just cultural, they have both an economic and a political element. So, Frankfurt. The next step should be the Leipzig Book Fair. It's a completely different audience, but we have to present our culture, our publishers, our creative industry, our translations. But here again, we find it hard to explain why the Ministry does not have the maximum mandate in publishing and literary fields. Similarly, Ukraine’s participation in the modern - day bienal of art in Venice. This is a major event of world importance in modern art. The following year, according to the curator of the Venice Biennial, the emphasis will be placed on countries like Ukraine. So we have no right to fail, we only have the right to qualitatively represent the National Pavilion and get the Golden Lion. For this to not be the way it always is, we'll do it the way it's supposed to. At first, they received all the necessary consent, and they held an open public competition, which selected a project of curators and artists. What's important is that we managed to find extra-budgetary costs under this project. So I hope that Ukraine's participation in the next Venice Biennial will be another successful example of cultural diplomacy and will enable Ukraine's contemporary art to be promoted. These are art retranslations of European values that we share, which are consistent with the traditional values of the Ukrainian people -- freedom, justice and dignity. If we're talking about directions that on the one hand are problematic, and on the other hand we're talking about doubling, it's creating a book institution. I am grateful to the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who voted in favour of the bill that allowed the Ministry of Culture to become responsible in the field of bookkeeping and reading culture. But there are many obstacles along the way. The underfunding, the funding, probably in this room, these words sound very often, and it's all about the budget, the lack of funding for one direction or another, but if we want the Ukrainian book to be that the institution works to make not only other countries proud that they are the most reading countries in Europe and to talk about Ukraine, we need to support this direction. And again, I am asking you to support our progress in developing the priorities of the book institution. They are obvious, support for modern authors, support for translations of Ukrainian literature in foreign languages, and participation in large - scale international and general Ukrainian activities are also project works. Another vital part of our work is a different view of the scientific institutions that are in the area of Minculture subordination, as well as those whose subject matter is clearly related to culture and art. Minculture's competence covers a lot of spheres. These include theatres, circuses, reserves, museums, the protection of the rights of the Nazis, religious issues, and artistic education. Surely all of these are important, key, very difficult to choose from, because they are all priorities. As long as the emphasis is solely on funding, all problems will be a priority and will require a priority solution. But there are different ways to solve problems. I'm not sure that everyone's been following Minculture closely for the last six months. Apparently the MPs have a very wide range of questions that you have to follow up on, but I want to say that those who observe the activity see that I'm with great enthusiasm, a passion for everything new, which I can join, and that's what happened after Jamal's victory at Eurowacen. Minculture became the first to get involved in the work, despite the fact that Eurobation is the responsibility of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the money manager is Derzkomteladio. But why did we do it? To carry out the Euroworking quality next year, I take this responsibility. In order for Ukraine to speak powerfully to become another example of cultural diplomacy, it is not because of the prism of discriminatory stereotypes that try to throw certain destructive forces into society. We are peaceful, tolerant, talented, open to the world. I think Eurobending is a powerful impetus for the promotion of the Ukrainian state. I also want, on behalf of the government of Ukraine, which you, honourable national deputies, have entrusted with the formation and implementation of state policy, we work in this direction in a transparent and open manner. We did everything we could to ensure that there were neither financial nor technical problems. The government gave financial and security assurances to the European Language Society, which were a mandatory condition for the European Year 2017 in Ukraine. The government has also clearly chosen the city of the contest. I'm going to put a stop to the idea of project-based funding. What do I mean? The Ukrainian Cultural Fund Bill has recently been approved by the Reform Board of the President of Ukraine. This is the first step towards transforming old management institutions into new project offices. It's a public transparent system of cost distribution between all participants in the cultural process, in which cultural actors from the non-state sector can participate. This is a powerful process in which experts will participate as widely as possible. This is the light at the end of the tunnel for many who have failed in the prospect of a creative realization in the Fatherland. It's a practice that we have all of the progressive world that we want to bring into our lives. We often have to talk about the lack of human resources, the lack of culture managers, which probably won't exist in 10 years. And if we don't change the policy of art education, if we don't produce generations of people who don't just do creativity, they also know how to organize it, make it profitable. Profitable not only in economic terms but also in a social sense, in the sense of social well-being. Therefore, special attention should be paid to children and talented youths, creating special conditions for them, and training them. If a child is talented, he should feel that his country is creating all the conditions for the development of talent, the ability to earn a talent in his life, and the desire to leave his own country. That's why I'm grateful to my colleagues who have listened and in the next year's budget project, for the first time in five years, we've awarded scholarships to young artists and for the first time in 10 years, the cost of repairing our famous national children's art schools. Back to the book. The child’s consciousness forms a book. And the book is definitely a library. And this year we've put a whole new philosophy into the book-buying system for Ukrainian libraries. We respect our classics: Kotzubinski, Franka, Forest Ukraine – but their works in libraries are widely represented. So the priorities for the next year that we're buying are modern Ukrainian literature, a children's book, a qualityly translated foreign book. We've taken away what should be represented in our libraries that want to read, what's relevant is the consciousness of the nation. I think one of the tasks of the Book Institute, along with the Ministry of Culture, will be a new order of purchase of books. This is the same approach that must be taken in relation to artistic projects that we are implementing in both Ukraine and abroad. This year, there's an expert board at Minculture that's taking out projects for which funds are being allocated. Once the Ukrainian Cultural Fund has been launched, these functions will be transferred to it, and the process will become even more open, transparent and independent. Of course, it is important to create a modern art council at the Ministry of Culture. You may say that there is much to be said for you. Yes, many of them, but we understand that it is important in updated politics to rely on expert thinking. We need to hear all the voices and compose them into a unified choir. So all the councils work to keep pace with time. I can't help but mention the cultural heritage. When we talk about it, we often think only of immovable objects, our castles, museums, and historic buildings. But what I want to remind you is that there's also a movemental legacy, both material and intangible. I am very happy for our country, because the session in Addis Ababa in Ethiopia in November will consider the inclusion of Cossacks in UNESCO's heritage, and the function of Minculture was to develop a dossier and political support for the submission of this to UNESCO. When we talk about cultural heritage, we also talk about tourism. That's why we want to achieve synergies with the Ministry of Economics, local and regional governments, because cultural tourism is one of the factors behind the continuous development of societies. That's why we started joining.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u7	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u8	That's why we've initiated accession to the Cultural Routes Partial Agreement of the Council of Europe as an observer free of charge. This happened literally a few days ago. But we already have some work done on Europe's totalitarian regime. Does that not apply to us? Of course it does. The royal routes of Europe, the routes of the Jewish community, and many others. Because we're looking for opportunities for cooperation and we can use that for our own development, both cultural and economic. Now, in a few words, I've been trying to identify the basic ideas and initiatives that the Ministry is putting in place. Of course, I would like to focus on the fact that many of our proposals were included in the formation of the Minculture budget for 2017. But I would like to point out that this budget still does not reflect all the needs we need for reform and strategic planning in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u9	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u10	I would like to ask that such things be taken into account by the members of the Supreme Council. Because it's not just spending on consumption, it's spending on development that we need and need. We have expenses on the capital. It's an extermination of an emergency facility, it's a national monument. But in order for us not to lose it, in order to produce something, we need something for the future, we need development costs. I ask you once again to pay attention, colleagues, to the bill on the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, which has been developed with the participation of Minculture and will soon be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because it also needs an artistic community, Ukrainian culture, and Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Eugene. Dear colleagues, there will be 30 minutes of questions from the National MPs. I emphasize, not from factions, not from groups, but from national MPs. If anyone would like to ask a question to the government, prepare for the recording. Please record a question to the government, please, colleagues. Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u12	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I ask that you listen to the question, honourable members of the government. It's just that much squirming, I can see, by the government's bed. Mr. Prime Minister, can I have your attention for a moment? I would like to ask you a question about what is happening in the purchase of coal from temporarily occupied areas. I asked that question about six months ago, and then there was a mixed answer. I remember that it was one of the government’s promises that this disgraceful phenomenon of actually sponsoring war against us, our nation, will finally stop, and we will stop buying coal from temporarily occupied territories. And it was actually said that there would be some attempt to substitute through import and so on. How does this situation now consist of what is being done to get away from this shameful practice at last? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. I have three main groups of questions to come up with, answers to this general question. First. Ukraine consumes 24.5 million tons in heat generation, of which 9.2 tons is an anthracite group, which unfortunately is not produced in Ukraine's controlled territory today. The coal anthracite group that Ukraine is receiving from the ATO area today is coal from coal mines that are registered and taxed in Ukraine. But for the first time, the government and the ministry have made a wide program to diversify the supply of anthracite coal from other sources. I should inform you that more than 560,000 tons of anthracite group are being chartered today from alternative sources. In particular, today, it's setting up an anthracite group not only "Centrenergo", which has a direct influence on the State Property Fund and perhaps the Ministry of Energy, but also on the "DTEK" group and the "TechNova" group. And in particular, I want to inform both the deputies and the society that came in yesterday to transport 77,000 tons, set up by the "DTEK" group. In addition, the government has done everything possible to reduce the consumption of the anthracite group, such as the Dragon TES on the second and fifth blocks, and we are redesigning the supply system from the anthracite to the gas group. This will allow us to do everything we can to minimize the supply of anthracite coal from the ATO zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u14	Please. Dear colleagues, please ask me the following question from the representatives of the Rebirth Group of Ilyuk, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u15	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Artem Ilyuk, the city of Nikolayev, the Rebirth Party. I would like to address the Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, I have already addressed you with regard to the atrocities and violations of Nikolaevgas in the city of Nikolaev, concerning the installation of home-based counters that they are trying to establish in violation of the law, thereby violating human rights and violating the law. They have an obligation to install apartment-based individual counters, but of course it is not convenient for them to try to deceive people by trying to impose their policies. I would like you to personally take control of this issue and stop the idleness of the gas monopolies. That's the first one. And the second. I would like to consider assigning status to the national Nikolai Zoo, which is recognized as the best zoo in Ukraine, is one of those zoos that have the largest and best collection in Europe and Asia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u16	Please, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u17	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Vice-speaker! Dear colleagues, I've heard questions, I'm going to study and I'm going to give you an exhaustive answer on both the cover and the other question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u18	Please, next question from the People's Deputy of Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u19	Guzenko Vitaliy, 92th constituency, gives the word to Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u20	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! It's a personal question for you. First. I want to thank you for your personal support for opening up the work of the National Agency for the quality of higher education, for approving the personal composition of the National Agency, for actually forming a new historical era when the NAME will actually perform the functions of NAMK, but in the sphere of intellectual property and human capital formation. There's only one last step left. The agency was registered on Monday. The decision of the Cabinet of Ministers remained to be taken and the personal composition of this national agency was approved. I would like to ask you to comply with the direct imperative norm of this Higher Education Act. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u22	Please, the Prime Minister responds. Next. Next, please, National Deputy Gus of the People's Front, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u23	Good afternoon, Vladimir Borisovich! Goose, Novovolinsk. Go there from the Prime Minister, let me tell you. Vladimir Borisovich, 10th Mine. Your colleague's secretary is shutting it down. The only mine in the country that is being built. Because there are 20 million. Unfortunately, Mr. Nasalik has no idea how to save her. Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you to be honest with me, the inhabitants of Volina, the miners of Novovolinska, the mine. If the government's closing it down, go to Novovolinsk and we're gathering four and a half thousand miners, and we say we're closing the only mine. If we're building it, let's say what costs we predict, we have to build it up. Last year we gave 148 million dollars of state funds for the construction, this year 20 million and freezing, closing. Well, it doesn't get into any of your heads. I'm asking you very much and I invite you to come and take this project under your control and come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u24	Mr. Igor, Mr. Igor, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u25	I asked Groysman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u26	No, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u27	I asked Groysman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u28	Please respond first to the profile minister, then to the Prime Minister. Dear colleague, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u29	I asked Groysman a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u30	Dear colleague, there's a desire for a profile minister to answer, then there's a Graceman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u31	I asked a question to Groysman, to Vladimir Groysman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u32	Mr. Igor, you were. Mr. Igor, you were present at the last meeting, where there were all the coal miners involved in the reform of the coal sector, and we were raising questions on the 10th mine right in this general meeting. It's not enough that we agreed with you at this meeting that maybe most of them, "BPT" on the one hand, and "The People's Front" will make a proposal in the 2017 budget to lay 200-250 million dollars, but look at the budget that was for 2016. I'll never believe it takes another one-and-a-half billion to finish mine 10. I'm more than confident that the new cost of the 10th mine will allow for a full launch of 250-300 million. Together, we will jointly ask the Prime Minister to include these funds for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u33	Thank you. I'll just add. I wanted the minister to comment on what was done. Look, it's very, in principle, understandable. In the 2017 budget, we're putting $1 billion 800 million into mine restructuring and also to support wage payments where coal mining is unprofitable. Let's say, together, absolutely responsiblely, if we can build this mine over 200 to 300 million, I'm ready to support it, and build it, and run it. Because I know that this question is important, and people around us will have a salary. And those mines that are non-profitable can be closed. I understand that. So let's, let's have 1 billion 800 million, let's sit together, all the people's deputies representing mining regions, and let's divide this resource -- this resource is -- so that we can invest not in food, but in modernizing the system itself. I absolutely urge you to join this work, and it's right to distribute this 1 billion 800 million. Otherwise, we never have enough money to put order there. Is it accepted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. And yet we ask our colleagues to honor each other in this room, the government too. Olga Belkova, please, from the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u35	Thank you. It is with great respect that I convey the word of Oksani Jurinec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u36	Good afternoon. Mr. Prime Minister, I am now addressing you, not as a deputy, but from the entire group of "Living," which today wishes to express a problem that has arisen and has not been solved for three years. There are 500 people standing next to the Supreme Council for the time being. These are the workers of the perinatal center who ask for it to be completed. 70 percent of it's done. There's still three months left of these jobs. I very much ask you, and, knowing that your government, and the Cabinet of Ministers, are quick to respond to any appeals today, which are challenges from society, I very much ask that you give the opportunity in the Lviv region to be born healthy children. Because unfortunately, the number of maternity homes that are unable to deal with this situation, and today we have a lot of people who have moved from eastern Ukraine, they just can't give birth. This number of qualified people (now part is on the balcony) who simply defend their right to adopt these births.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u37	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u38	And I'm asking you very much because the 30 members of the People's Group are a big argument for the adoption of the budget. And that's the line that's going to be convincing so that we can all be able to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u39	Thank you so much for your question. I think that these projects are not alone in different parts of the country. And I'm understanding what needs to be created in regions today's perinatal centers in order to save children's lives. And it was in my practice. There was experience when my team and I created such a perinatal center, and the results were just amazing. So I think this question needs to be solved. So what tools do we have with you? We have the State Regional Development Fund next year, the social and economic development subsidy. And I think we're going to find, within this resource, the cost of adopting the 1 January budget to restore and complete the construction of this perinatal center. As I've been informed, it takes 107 million. I think that together we are a city, an area, plus the State Regional Development Fund, that's the question. We discussed this with you at the faction, and I told you that this issue would be resolved. So thank you for asking, and we will support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u42	Dear members of the Cabinet of Ministers! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I've got some questions about my hometown, which is now being run by a super reform team, but it turns out to be a super-talking team, and unfortunately, the results are shameful. And for that, I have three questions. First. Ministry of Internal Affairs. The worst situation is criminogenic in the Odessa region. What steps can you take to improve the situation? The other one. Ministry of Social Policy. The worst situation in the country is the granting of subsidies to citizens for housing services. I very much ask the Minister of Social Policy and you, Vladimir Borisovich, to personally take control of this situation, to intervene in this situation and to change it for the best, because otherwise we'll just get in trouble, because the worst areas are the very politically dangerous areas of Odessa-Bessarabia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u43	Who Will Answer? Please turn on Revie's microphone. Turn on the microphone, please, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u44	Dear People's Deputy Honcharenko, I am forced to fully acknowledge your right. From the point of view of social policy, the Ministry of Social Policy is absolutely in line with the reality of the Odessa region, where subsidies have been granted a complete failure, starting with the absence of a normally approved district manager and ending up with all the verticals that are there. So I promise you that we are taking this issue under personal control, because if problems arise, that's where we're going to do everything we can to make things right. I'm going to set up a special relief group in the Odessa region that would allow for the employment of housing subsidies to the population. I've got dozens, hundreds of references from Odessa County residents -- the Rhine region, Bilgorod-Dnistrovski, others -- Ovidiopolski, who say that the work is actually broken down there. I am taking control of this issue, and I hope that we will soon correct it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u45	The IMF will either complete the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. This is really a very important problem for us, we are fully aware of it. But we need to understand that the Ministry of Internal Affairs today has a huge complication with the National Police, and we are working to remedy this situation. And also very soon, I think we're going to present an updated strategy, let's say operational actions that will start with the police, the road police, end up with a criminal block. So we're working on this and we're aware of what steps have to be taken to achieve great efficiency, especially in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Lapin Igor, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u48	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u49	Yes, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Culture for the quality and content of the report, and for the change in the quality of the Ministry of Culture. And the government would like to thank you for the increase in cultural spending, but to point out that the percentage on culture is smaller than in the last year's budget, although in absolute terms it is larger. I would like to ask the following question, more faithfully, to point out the need to increase and take into account funding from the National Memory Institute, the Art Arsenal, which is a cultural institution, even though it is under state administration. And I'd like to ask the minister, what's going on with the historic cultural reserve in Krivorovna? The right decision was taken by our committee, supported by the Ministry, but it doesn't seem to be moving right now. He also wanted to point out the need for the President to sign the Act on State Support for Cinematography. I'm grateful to the government for addressing the President. I mean, it's the principle of standing by this law, which is the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u50	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u51	The item on copyright protection. With regard to financial expenses, it is obvious that there may be compromises with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u52	Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u53	Yes, thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for asking questions. We discussed them in part. That's right, yeah. It reminds me, Prime Minister, that culture is our priority. In fact, you've heard a talk that, despite the moments that are a little bit taken into account, we're concerned about development. And that's what we're talking about in the section of Creature because you know, 65 of the decree even banned the granting of status. She's canceling now. Now 710th, which we're working and looking for. It itself is a national ban. We've come across this problem in both ways, and Nagavievich's, but as we're in the process of ruling out Nagavievich, we're moving out of place, and we're working in this direction. Curious, we also think or do as a branch, for example, a historical museum, or pathways. We spoke on a committee directly to the government, well, there's a process going on, and I'll keep it under control and let you know. As for the Art Arsenal, you've actually rightly noticed that it's in separate budgeting of the Department of State Affairs. Just like the Palace of Ukraine, just like the House of Ukraine, it's not in line with the Ministry of Culture, although there's a discussion of the art environment, of course. But, well, in our joint work, we can make certain references and resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u54	Thank you very much. Sergey Mikolaiovich, Fatherland, please. He's handing over Cugel. Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government! Let me let you know, I think you know all of this, that the income part of the budget is being filled by a business that is either public or private or utility. But perhaps you know the information that the actions of Mrs. Hontarieva have brought some $400 billion out of Ukraine’s market. And all your strengths and together our strengths to improve the country's economy cannot be improved. So let me let you know that all the fraudulent investors in Ukraine have united and submitted an ultimatum by November 18th, and I am directing your attention to the Prime Minister, personally the finance minister, where they point out that they require the President to be released from office as Mrs. To you, the Cabinet of Ministers is required to remove Mr. Vróslin from office, from the Guarantee Fund. I'd like to draw the Prime Minister's attention now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u56	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u57	Notice that the Guarantee Fund has seized Ukrainian stock markets and allowed the Russian Alpha Bank to sell at the Guarantee Fund. Note Decree 662, the Cabinet of Ministers, which is required to stop and stop from the Guarantee Fund Order 826. By December 18, you have the opportunity to do good things for your Ukrainian people who have been deceived by Mrs. Potter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u58	Please, who will answer from the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u59	Minister of Finance. Thank you for asking and for your position. In fact, as you know, there's the National Bank Act, which gives a fairly high degree of independence to the National Bank and the leadership of the National Bank, particularly the head of the National Bank. Thus, according to this law, all procedures are prescribed there. We take your information for granted, but everything has to be within the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u60	Thank you. Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Michael Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u62	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Yesterday we had a committee meeting with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Policy and were told about the need to raise the minimum wage. Of course, Freedom supports wage raises. But I have a question: what account do you plan on doing this? I never heard back from any minister where you plan on taking the money. Or are you just going to turn on the presses and print the bracelet, once again devalue the national currency where the Ukrainians are going to impoverish. Or are you finally going to listen to our proposals and include in the consideration of Bills that would give billions to the state budget is Law 4935, on the elimination of fictitious VAT, half factory leather, eggs; this is Law 2269a, on the return to the state of lottery control, that's more than ten billion dollars to the state budget, it's the Law on the Elimination of Private Monopolies and so on. "Freedom" is initiating.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u63	Please. No, no, we've got eight more minutes. We still have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues! The government was very professional in raising the minimum wage in the country from 1,600 dollars to 3,000, 200 dollars. And that's just the first step. And this step will take place on the basis of a fair assessment of the work of Ukrainian workers, on the basis of childishness, on the basis of justice that we are restoring, taking into account the economic situation in the country and the possibilities of the state budget. I'm hearing a rhetoric today that people are starting to get scared by presses, by printing money, and all that. I want to reassure the entire Ukrainian people that the decision to raise wages to 3,000 200 dollars is completely balanced and does not require any printing press, nor will it lead to any unplanned development of inflation in our country. For the first time in decades, we have made a decision that will allow us to compare the minimum wage from 3,000,200 dollars to the real minimum wage. And this is a step that we are taking to overcome poverty in our country. That's enough for people to live on a dime. And this money, I say in a responsible way, is in the economy, and no pressure on the different sectors is going to happen. Today, the minister of social policy has given you an example of how in other countries of the former Soviet Union people work and what their minimum wage is. And I have a question: why do Ukrainians have such low wages? And we have to fix that question, and we're going to fix it. Moreover, since December 1st, a month later, we're taking a small step, but we're doing it, we're increasing the minimum pension for Ukrainian pensioners. The next step is that we're working on creating a fair pension system. And we're going to do that, because when I repeatedly spoke from this rostrum, that the government was working on offering fair pay to Ukrainian workers, that was a promise, and today we did it. So I'd like to ask all of you, your fellow national MPs, your politicians, I'd like to ask you very much, don't frighten people, don't put them in a state of impossibility. When you say there's going to be an increase in wages, tomorrow there's going to be inflation. No, the situation will be completely controlled. And whoever's talking about what this is going to do, then let them come out to this rostrum when people start getting real wages, and apologize to the Ukrainian people. It's enough to be afraid of things that don't exist. People are going to get a normal salary, it's just the first steps and our task, and I'm absolutely in favour of economic growth, and we have enough tools to do that. And I am convinced that this decision will continue to be supported in Parliament. I was at one of the car repair factories yesterday. Today, people are starting to re-manage production in the country, we're just going to be a raw addition to the economy of other countries, and we're going to fund the wages of citizens of other countries. We're going to produce a national product in Ukraine, we have to create an added value here, and people have to get a job and a normal salary. And I want to stress once again, let's reject all the political views there at the moment when it comes to supporting Ukrainian citizens. Support the budget for 2017, which the government has put in place or not in the first place in time, support the accompanying laws that will enable us to establish social justice and, as of 1 January 2017, people will really feel our support with you, for which we have chosen here and for which we are working in power today. I hope that anyone who feels perfectly normal about his duties can take this approach. So thank you, please, for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u65	Thank you. We've got three more minutes. Teen Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u66	I ask you to give the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u67	Taras Shepherd of Self - Help. Volodymyr Borisovich, you can ask him to. Volodymyr Borisovich, a question to you and a question to the Ministry of Defense. Now, while we're sitting here with you in the hall, there's a funeral of two Irishmen on the Main Independence Day. And it's obvious that you'll have the opportunity tomorrow, today to check the cause, really, of these guys' deaths. Officially, it was an enemy mine, and the boys were killed. But actually, the situation looks something else. My question is, actually, when will the business in the war that Ucroborprom is making today stop? And we all promise civilian control of this sector together. We're talking about today's minomets, which are a major achievement of the Croatprome. We have a case where a reckoning commander was killed on the Broad Lan range, and the fighters were wounded. Since then, there has been no record of service checks. And most of all. When "Samsung" got on the plane.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u68	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u69	The entire usage model has been removed. We've lost our boys since our production. These mortars continue to be used in the Armed Forces. The question is, why do we continue to allow our money to be used to make no use of it, and then our boys continue to die. So I have a requirement for today that we actually have an official inspection of this production. Whoever put these minuts on arms, why our boys are dying away from our hands, and we're funding it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. I'm going to assign a task today to create an independent group to study the subject. We'll give you an answer. I've fixed it. And I said that at the last parliamentary meeting in the "hour of questions to the government" and now I want to propose. Let us strengthen parliamentary control over the use of public finances, including in the area of security and defence. I urge you to do so. And as Prime Minister, I am absolutely open. Please check each copy, each bracelet, and this should be absolutely transparent. So please, I'm waiting for these suggestions where you think you need to improve the control situation. You know, the created public resource e-data, which has absolutely all the wires at all costs, all the purchases are made through the ProZorro system, which allows for control. If you have to strengthen control, I'm both hands in favour, because every bracelet has to be used effectively. Please make suggestions, I fully support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final question from the deputies, and Irina Heraszczenko, the deputy, will have a question to ask the government. So, the last question of Galchenko. And Galchenko gives Shurma a brief message, and then Irina Heratschenko, and we finish "the hour of questions to the government." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u72	Igor Šurma. I have a question for Prime Minister Groysman, today is the one-hundred-day appointment of Mrs. Suprun's Minister of Health. I recommend not to read in those hundred days, for those who do so will be ridiculed. I have a question for you when you come to Parliament for approval of not being a minister of health, once? And have you seen a hundred persons or any of your employees have an original degree in the education of this candidate, Suprun? The main question is the prenatal center in Lviv, the safety of births, pregnant babies, newborn babies, maternal mortality, it's all from the functioning of the prenatal center. The center of Lviv was the first in Post - Soviet space. Today, hundreds of people don't have a job, today hundreds of women can't give birth, they just need 100 million. Vladimir Borisovich, give me an answer. On the balcony are representatives of the Prenatal Center collective. Tell them, will you give the money in 2017 111 million or not, just not to the development fund, but to a separate line?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u73	Thank you, Honorable People's Deputy Shurm, for your question. I think that everything about the government's activity report, if you haven't noticed, we reported in the 2nd, 3rd quarter a few weeks ago, especially in health systems and systems. I want to say that the health system has, unfortunately, accumulated a huge number of problems that need to be addressed, particularly by adopting the necessary legislation, the laws of Ukraine in order to reform the system, which is exactly what we need to do. In fact, the situation is catastrophic, and it is not the first year. There are many challenges. And in the budget project for 2017, you'll see that we're also paying higher wages to doctors who are providing and purchasing drugs, and we're starting a re-inclusion system, creating cardiovascular surgery centers in our country. And you know that's a big question. Now for Lviv's perinatal center. You probably didn't hear, and I answered Oksani Jurinec, the Ukrainian national deputy, and she asked that question. I think that within 107 million dollars we can find a resource to complete the creation of a perinatal center in 2017. Dear colleagues, present and working, I will support and do everything I can to establish a modern perinatal center in Lviv next year. Enough? I don't think it matters to you whether it's a single line or two, but it's going to be done. Do you have a deal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u74	Thank you. And the last question is Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a question, I think to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, but also to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And it's about protecting Ukraine's territorial integrity. Recently, there was a very heated discussion in our session room as to whether the chances and swans of the Russian Federation who had previously gathered halls in the occupied Crimea could be allowed to take over Ukrainian territory. And we've prepared an appropriate request for the Border Service, for the Ukrainian Security Service. How can these people, after they've illegally visited Crimea, you know, enter Kiev and try to speak here in the central hall at the Palace of Ukraine? Similarly, we prepared a very important question: regarding the characters who allowed themselves to participate as observers in so - called primerosis in occupied areas. And, you know, what I got from the Border Service is just amazing, because it says, in the answer, that "as you, Mrs. Heratchenko, and other national deputies did not specify the date of birth of these swans, or those people who are suspected of illegally violating the border of Ukraine, participating in these primitives, and that they indicate their names in Latin transcription. We're not going to test them in the database. That's my question. We have Ukraine, which is already a doorway that we cannot protect and create in government an appropriate structure that will be very clearly monitored, who has to do so, who has violated Ukraine's borders by illegally crossing them, visiting Crimea or occupied territories. Who will protect our borders? Another example. We've all seen shame when a man on the "black" list of SBUs who has no right to visit Ukrainian territory is what's called "life news" propagandist Graham Phillips abused the Ukrainian prisoner in the "syrian zone" when we released him. Please tell me if the criminal case against this man has been violated for the illegal crossing of Ukraine's border again or not. It's not broken. Because no one from the government turned to this. So I want to ask you, who is responsible for protecting Ukraine's borders? Who's going to do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u76	Mrs. Irina, thank you for your questions. We will consider it again and raise it to a higher level. I think it might have been some kind of bureaucratic mistake, but of course we'll try to solve it at the Ministry level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u77	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u78	I'm sorry. I'm sorry, we're asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to send us another letter, but actually to protect the Ukrainian borders. There must be a government structure that will clearly monitor violators of the Ukrainian border. And if there was a singer or a circus singing in Crimea, she has no right to speak at the Palace of Ukraine! You just have to follow the laws of Ukraine, you know? And it's going to be very important. And if not, I think there should be responsibility for those who violate these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u79	Final word to Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Well, the question of protecting borders is what Irina Volodymyrna said, and no problem. We can update this list again, I just didn't know about it. To be honest, I don't have much of a track record of estradia, I don't just have time. But if there's a question of such cases, there's no problem. No problem. Give us this information, we're asking the whole question. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mrs. Vice-Speaker, First Vice-Speaker, Honorary Fellows of the People's Chamber, I would like first of all to thank you on behalf of the Government for your support. Once again, I would like to emphasize the importance of the budgetary process. Yesterday the government approved for the second reading the draft budget for 2017, which provides for the preservation of all the priorities that we talked to you about. It's about building roads, it's about saving decentralization, it's about raising teachers' wages by 30 percent since 16 years, it's about increasing their wages to doctors, it's supporting the purchase of drugs for Ukrainian citizens, it's creating prenatals, it's creating cardiovascular surgery centers, setting up a reimbursation system, it's supporting 5.5 billion, but we're still working with agrarians, we might find ways to increase that resource to 10 billion to support small farming, 8.1 billion to support the coal sector. We support Ukrainian diplomacy and Ukrainian culture, which has been said today, will provide costs and support for national security and defence. So we've actually balanced this budget, it's absolutely real with 3 percent economic growth and moderate inflation. What we did, and what we didn't have on September 15, we worked hard to raise the minimum wage, and we decided that 3,000, 200 dollars, is an absolutely real minimum wage that can be paid to Ukrainian citizens. In fact, it's all completely balanced. This document will now be in the field of the Ukrainian Parliament. I know that there are political forces that will do everything they can to break this budget to prevent the adoption of the budget for 2017, thereby triggering processes and increasing inflation, and the destruction of the national economy, and many other things. But I deeply believe that in the Ukrainian Parliament, the absolute majority of the MPs and groups and the non-factional MPs, who still have an absolute state position, let's give people what they've owed for decades, let's give people what they deserve. Let's say once again that the years they've lived the last since the beginning of Russian aggression have been tough, not wasteful. That when they really had to endure, they endured. And now we can start a completely different process -- the process and recovery of the national economy, and the process of raising real social standards. We've only been working for six months, and these are our first steps. And you can only imagine when we're working a few years, where the elevated state of the Ukrainian economy is going to be, and how much we can increase and improve the living conditions of Ukrainian citizens. So let's just do this together, once and for many decades in advance. Thank you and wish you success.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u81	Thank you. "The year of questions before the government" is over. We thank the government and the Prime Minister for participating in our work. Thank you, colleagues. I would like to say that I consider one of the important reforms that we have to undertake in Parliament is the debate with the government to make more time for such talks. Because they're both giving the right dialogue and making the right decisions in this dialogue. Colleagues, I'd like to make some announcements that have come to the fore. First. In accordance with article 3 of the third part of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal from the National People's will of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Shapovalov Jurija Anatoliyovich. Next announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that he is part of the National People's Will Group of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Feldman Alexandr Borisovich. And the final announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the establishment of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For the implementation of the full cycle of public policy" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected as national deputies: Miroznicka Jurija Romanović, Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich, Popov Igor Volodymyrovich, Solovy Yuri Igorovich, Dubil Valery Alexanderovich, Jemtza Leonida Alexanderovich. In fact, the representatives of all factions, welcome them. They set an ambitious goal of helping to reform parliament. And I'm sure together we'll be able to take this path, shoulder to shoulder, by joint reform efforts. Thank you, colleagues. According to the Rules, we now have time to read the parliamentary requests. A total of 251 came in. And I invite you to read out the parliamentary questions of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heratchenko Irina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u82	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we have one request for today, which is being sent to the President of Ukraine. And as you know, when we look at the President's questions, first we have to vote in favour of the request. That's why I'm asking you to stay in the hall. And I want to ask for support now. The request from our distinguished colleague Yuri-Bogdan Shuhević to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the fine "is not subject to publication" and for the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former national deputies of the U.S.R. and the USSR, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and so on, members of their families, who are calculating pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and for the suspension of the payment of pensions to these persons. I'm asking for support. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:25:04]] Z-85 Sadly, only 85 deputies support this. And I'm moving on to the announcement of other questions. Today, there are 251, respected colleagues. So, Victor Razwadowski's temporary duty to the Minister of Health to ensure the separation of the day-care facility of the "Territorial Centre for Social Services" of the Romani district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of a health ambulance to the general practice of family medicine in the village of Visna Pic Zitomir district of Žitomir district. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of a plastic-reconstructive rehabilitation of military personnel involved in an anti-terror operation. Sergey Larina to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for a review of the appeal of representatives of the Chevchenkov community in the city of Kyiv concerning dissatisfaction with Order No.62 of 22 June 2016 to the management of the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Centre of Primary Health Care No. 1" of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Igora Guza to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to transfer the premises of a former preschool facility in Novovolinsk, owned by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legislative provision of law enforcement on the need for adoption by the Supreme Council of the Law of Ukraine on Municipal Police. Anna Romanov to the head of the Ukrainian State Agency for the Management of the Aliens Zone on the problem of visiting the Chernobyl Zone as a tourist destination. Michael Bondar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the correction of the amount of the educational subsidy for the Bousky region of Lviv Region for the 17th year. Michael Bondar to the head of the Office of the Ukrainian State Department in the Lviv region, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate in the Lviv region, Head of the Brdovian District State Administration of the Lviv Region, for the use of funds for the reconstruction of the maternity ward of the Brodov Central District Hospital. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate examination and provision of hearing aid for disabled persons from childhood at the expense of budgetary resources. Vassil Janicky, head of the State Security Service of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the organization of public bus routes through the village of Zabolec in the Vodimirec region of the Plain region. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, for the technical pause. John Melniczuk to the National Anti-Corruption Agency, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the Prevention of Corruption. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amending the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence order of 14 August 2008 No. 402 "On the Approval of the Military and Medical Expertise in the Armed Forces of Ukraine". Groups of National Deputies (Velickovića, Bondará, Solara) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the Prevention of Corruption in relation to the conduct in the shortest possible time of a thorough examination of the declarations made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purpose of illicit enrichment and the submission of information on the origin of the declared funds. Igor Kotwiecki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on proposals for the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017. Igor Kotwiecki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of the Ukrainian draft law on the State budget for Ukraine for 2017. Oleg Musia to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the pension provision of military personnel. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of state housing programmes. Vladislav Buharev to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the inclusion of research and development of the Suma State University in the defence and security spheres in the State Defence Order, as well as their funding from the State Budget of Ukraine in 2017. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the electrification of the Southern Railway Station, 239 kilometres from the Sumsk County Witch Station to the Lubotin Kharkiv District Station. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the opening of the branch of the extra-corporative detoxification department in the Danube region of the Hmelni district. Groups of National Deputies (Bathenka, Dubinina, others) A total of 8 colleagues) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the election of members of the families of military personnel who carried out military duties in the course of an anti-terrorist operation in eastern Ukraine were captured or considered as hostages or as missing persons, a one-time material aid of 100,000 dollars. Stephen Ivakhiv to the minister of defense of Ukraine for the payment of money to the family of the soldier Bogajchuk Pavel Volodymirovich, who disappeared without news in the Ilowiska boiler. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing officials of the Ministry of Health to justice for failing to provide medicines for children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Igora Shurma to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the recognition of the decisions of the Pecher District Court of Kiev by the unlawful actions of Company Inspector No. 4 of Battalion No. 1 of the Police Department in Kiev of the Police Department of the Police Police and for his disciplinary responsibility. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the improper counting of salaries for the provision of administrative services. Olesia Long to the provisional duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to carry out treatment at the expense of the budget. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to amend the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to include a bridge across the Skirka River on the 301+579 R-32 Kremenec-Bila Church-Ristov road to the list of objects on which the capital repairs will take place at the expense of the funds involved in previous years under State guarantees by the State Agency of Roads of Ukraine. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Fastew City Head, the head of the Fastew Police Department of the National Police Department in the Kyiv Region, to decide whether or not to restore the work of a preschool educational institution at the street of Truth, the city of Fastov, where there is a natural garbage dump. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of former employees of the State Enterprise Chutov Poltava Region to land (pai) during the privatization of the enterprise, the long-term and ineffective conduct of the procedure by the Regional Department of the State Property Fund of Ukraine in the Poltav region, the destruction of movable and immovable property of state property. Jury Timoshenko, head of the Ukrainian State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate for the verification of compliance with legislation during the construction of the Kiev Metro Station, Heroov Dniper. Jury Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure that land is properly investigated for the transfer of municipal property to a lease in violation of land law requirements. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of land boundaries between co-owners of the residence and for the decision of the local self-government body. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the Protection of Energy Interests in the International Arena. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the examination of the candidate, Sergey Hrapatho, before being appointed Head of the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration, Zitomir District Council, head of the Novograd-Volin District State Administration of the Žitomir Region for the initiative to restore the activities of the Novograd-Volin military hospital in the complex with the rehabilitation centre. John Rybak to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, President of the Red Cross Society of Ukraine, Head of the Chernobyl District State Administration, Head of the Provincial District State Administration of the Chernivets region, Head of the Visnik district council of the Chernivets region for the non-closure of the Beregomet Hospital of the Red Cross of the region of Chernivets. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of the Kitzman District Government Administration of the Chernovets region, Head of the Kitzman District Council of the Chernovets region for the provision of accommodation for the ATO hero, resident of the village of Borovci of the Kitzman district of Cherniewec region. Groups of National Deputies (Krywenka, Matkovsky and others - only 30 deputies) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminalization of persons involved in the distribution of funds of 331 million dollars. Andrija Bielecki and Oleg Petrenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the payment of lump sums in the event of death, disability or partial loss of employment without establishing the disability of militia personnel who have died or died, have been disabled or have lost their employment as a result of direct participation in the conduct of the ATO. Vasil Janicki to Henprocuror of Ukraine regarding the inaction in the investigation of crimes of illegal possession and the destruction of state property at the "Stragrotechservis" in the Kirovograd region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on speeding up the introduction of the principles of decentralization in the reform of forestry in Lviv. Andrija Lopushanski, until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Finance, for the provision of funds for the work of medical workers in the Skolovsky, Turkovsky, Old Sambora district, and the city of Sambora Lviv district. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the director of the State concert "Ucroprom" on the use of organizational and legal measures to transfer the building of the preschool facility, which is on the balance of the casino company "Radiometer" to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kyiv. Alexander Suprunka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine to meet the environmental safety requirements in the solid household waste range number 5 in the village of Podrukhiv district of Kiev. Valeria Davidenka to the Prime Minister on the need to implement a mechanism for direct inter-budget relations between the newly created united territorial communities and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Irina Suslowy, head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and ATO participants on information on actions to support ATO participants in 2016. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to restore diesel trains in the direction of Svatov-Pozna and Svatov-Transitional stop at Zabrzykino points, 933 km, Apartment, Volcejarska. Maxima Burbak to the Attorney General for the investigation of illegal logging in the territory of Cherniewec. Valentina Didáda to the Prime Minister, Henprocuror, on the situation in Marganec, Dnipropetrovsk, in connection with the collapse of the heating season as a result of the disconnection of the heating network from the central heating supply of the city, which led to the complete absence of heat in the towns. Valentina Didadar to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, on the inaction of procedural direction and the coverage of corruption by the officials of the prosecutor's office and the judicial authorities in criminal proceedings number 12015100060007551. Jury Wozniak up to the temporary duty of Ukrainian Minister of Health, head of the Plain State Administration to assist in the deployment of Vasiluk and Jaroschuk to the international rehabilitation clinic for children’s cerebral palsy. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the mass violation of the rights of former employees of the internal affairs bodies of the Poltavian region, in connection with the failure of the central authorities of the legislative acts and the failure to carry out their estimates of the pension of persons in connection with the change in the size of the financial security of the formed departments of the National Police of Ukraine. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the Protection Service of the Lower Town Organization of the Red Cross Association of the Republic of Montenegro. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District Authority on the quality of drinking water in the settlements of the Ichnyan region of Chernigiv. Mr. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKK, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Predicting in the draft Ukrainian Law on State Budget Expenditure on Financing of State Housing Programmes. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior, Minister of Social Policy on the facts of mass fraud in the area of Ternopil. John Melniczuk to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the General Office of the State Department of the Dergeocadastro in the Vinnitsk Region, the Office of the Procurator of the Vinnitsk Region for the illegal allocation of the land of the reserve fund to the property of the Kariskovsky Rural Council of the Bari district of Vinnitsk. Irina Konstankevitch to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to maintain the functioning of the therapeutic ward No. 2 of the Lyubeshiv Central District Hospital in the village of Vetla in the Lubeshiv district of Volin district. Jaroslava Dudbnević to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for the submission of supporting documents on citizen involvement in ATO forces and assets. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of ensuring the constitutional right to health and providing life-saving assistance to patients with haemodialysis in the Hmělnice region. Romana Macoli to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of Staff - General of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney - General of Ukraine - Chief Military Prosecutor for Unsatisfactory Response to the MP’s request for a full, objective and comprehensive investigation into the criminal conduct of the death of a military official, ATO Koval Maxim Alexandrovich. Igora Lucenka to the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the use of aminosins and haloperidol in Odessa’s psychological interiors as a psychotropic means of depressive action. Irina Efraemov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of one-time cash assistance due to disability to a participant in the fighting. Irina Efremova, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to clarify the reasons for refusing a young specialist onanko to work as a Methodist doctor. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to consider the possibility of inclusion in the list of rare (orphan) diseases of Sharko-Mary Tut. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health for the failure to respond to requests from Ukraine’s national deputies. Anatolia Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, on the implementation of state policy in the area of youth housing and youth housing. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on the implementation of State policy on housing for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Igor Popov to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the unsatisfying technical condition of the central road and the public education facility in the village of Lebedovka, the Vistok district of Kiev. Igor Popov to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for possible violations of law enforcement by officials during the decommissioning of the land and the construction of a complex of multi-story buildings. Yurya Berezi is under the responsibilities of the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying condition of the roads connecting the city of Petyhatka with the villages of Likhovka, Chistopil, Dolinski, the cities of Wilnovirsk and the Upper Plains. Jurya Bereza to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the unfinished construction of barracks in the city of Deaf Sumsk, as well as for the unacceptable conditions of military service. Sergey Rudika to the director of Smila Energoinvest Society for an immediate solution to the problem of providing Smila Cherkaske district with centralized heating. Sergey Rudika to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to preserve the financing of the Watchful Service of the Red Cross Association of Ukraine to ensure the provision of medical care, care, social and household services for the elderly, disabled, war veterans and workers, other socially unprotected categories of citizens of Kamyansk, Smilyanski, Cherka district, Cherka district, as well as the city of Kamyanka and the city of Smilil. Dear colleagues, we continue to ask questions. Vadim Krivohatka to the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption on Legality did not publish the declaration of the head of the District Authority of Brel Kostin Ivanovich on the official website of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, for the installation of traffic lights and for the lighting of pedestrian crossings along the Kiev-Chop route in the village of Roswads of the region of Lviv and Lviv-Ternopil in the village of Plugów Zoločov district of Lviv. Sergey Larina to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the solution of issues related to the recovery of funds for the investment of PAB's physical clients, Bank Mikhailovsky. Groups of Nardeps (Sold, Chumak and others – only 16 colleagues) to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct following the disappearance of the head of the UDA party's sum district center, Sergey Lichman. Jury Miroshnicka to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the financial support of the Kharkiv National Academy of Opera and the ballet of the name of Lysenka. Jury of Peacekeepers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the establishment of civil servants' salaries according to the law. Andrija Vadaturski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for 100 million dollars for the construction of a military town in the Shirokololanov District. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of additional tax burdens on river transporters, in the form of a river assembly that will significantly limit the economic attractiveness of the Ukrainian sector and result in job losses and increased budget costs to support the unemployed. Mikoli Fedoruk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an inappropriate and superficial examination of the MP's appeal to the Ministry of Health. Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Head of the Viennese District Government Administration, Head of the Vinnick District Council, Vinnicko District State Administration, Society with limited responsibility for the provision of natural gas to residents of the village of Preorka Vinicko district of Vinicko. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Cosatian Regional State Administration, Head of the Kalinov District Council of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Kalinov District Government of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Cosatian Rayrad of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Vinnitsky District Council, Head of the Vinnitsky District Administration, Vinnitsky District Government of the Vinnitsk Region of the Vinnitsk Region for the purpose of ensuring the education of public roads. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the repayment of debt on solid fuels and scrap gas to residents of the Guliapil region of Zaporozhye. Paul Kishkarr to the Attorney-General on the re-examination of the recruitment of officials of the State Property Fund of Ukraine to criminal responsibility for the late dispatch of a letter to the tenant about the termination of the lease of the Dnipro-Buzki Seaport. Paul Kiskar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the investigating officer of the F.D.I. in the Desnian district of the General Office of the State Fiscal Service in Kiev Ponko during the pre-trial investigation of Criminal Investigation No.32013110030000142 of September 20, 13 concerning the decision taken on the expulsions of the Mega Land River Evidence Society. Groups of National Deputies (Opanasenka, Soboljeva and others, only 5) to the head of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Federation of Ukraine to meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the System of Innovation of Ukraine by Software Service Providers. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, head of the Wallin District State Administration for the electrical work of the residential estate of the city of Rosyce Volinsk. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Odessa District State Administration, temporarily acting as Chief of the National Police Directorate in the Odessa Region, on the situation surrounding the Gulf Village Council of Bilgorod-Dnistrov City Council of the Odessa Region. Andrija Shinkovič is responsible for the responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency to take account of the need for solid coverage between areas and large rural councils, which will take children on a school bus to school from home and on which ambulances are being driven. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need for return to villages and rural communities that have not created unified communities, 25 percent of the tax on the income of natural persons (PDF). Sergey Vlasenka to the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on providing information on the state of standard-setting work of professional ministries and departments, reporting to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the development of new food sets, non-food products, services for major social and demographic groups. Sergey Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the level of salaries of members of the Cabinet of Ministers and other departments and enterprises under the control and accountability of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Ukrainian Diplomatic Academy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Oleg Osuhovski to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau for the possible theft of state funds during the capital repair of the road of state importance M-09 Lviv - Rava-Rusk Zovkovsky district of Lviv. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the Dniprovsky District in Kiev, of the State Administration for Unsatisfying Asphalt Coverage on the housing line of the Dniprovov district of Kyiv. People’s Deputies (Illenka, Marchenka) Total 5.) To the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the head of the Security Service for the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagandization of Their Symbolism, and the failure of the courts of state authorities to execute their decisions in part of the ban on the activities of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Alexander Revega and Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health on the need for adequate State funding for the Watchful Service of the Society of the Red Cross of Ukraine in 16th and 2017. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Affairs of Ukraine on the procedure for granting individual heating subsidies. Oleg Kulinić to Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Rosenk on the order of payment of pension allowances and their indexation. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for honouring the memory of the prominent Ukrainian citizen Bogdan Gavrilišin and for compensation by the State for the funds of Bogdan Gavrilišin, lost in connection with the bankruptcy of the Pat "Commercial Bank of Krystátíčík", thus halting the implementation of the program of the Bogdan Gavríšin Foundation "The Youth will Change Ukraine". Sergey Kaplina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of issues related to the need for reimbursement to PAT investors "Bank Mikhailski". Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Tarostian District State Administration of the Kyiv Region for the construction of a road with a hard cover on the street of the Stadium in the village of Lisovich of the Tarostian district of Kyiv district. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in the 16th year of construction and capital repair of social sites in the Voddar region of Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the National Authority of Ukraine on the prevention of corruption over the possible abolition of President Peter Prashenko of the declaration of valuable works of art and objects of real estate in Spain. Sergey Leschchenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the alleged illegal occupation by the Zitomir air conditioning factory TV "ZL" by a group of persons organized by the Ukrainian National Deputy Sergey Pashinski. Gregory Times to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure the continuation of the construction of the Ukrainian part of the international crossing points on the Ukrainian-Romanian border of Djakovitsa - Rakovets and Krasnoylski-Vicovo de Sus. Gregory Times to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the adoption of a decision prohibiting entry into Ukraine of a citizen of the Republic of Moldova, Dodon Igor Mikolaiovich, born in 1975 for expressing signs of trespassing on Ukraine’s territorial integrity and integrity. The inviolability of Ukraine, I'm sorry. Victor Krivenk to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the violation of environmental standards by the Uzin sugar plant. Groups of National Deputies (Emma, Krivoszei, Stashuka) to the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the violation of the rights of residents and members of the OSB housing complex "Park Lakes" on the street of Voscresen in Kiev. Ruslana Demczak up to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to predict expenditure on the financing of security services in Ukraine under the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2017. Ruslana Demczak to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in the Vinnitsk Region, for the immediate repair of the bridge in a state of emergency, across the river Desnjenko in the village of the village of the Turbów of the Lipovecki region of the Vinnitsk Region. Roman Semenha to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the examination of the facts surrounding the capture of the Gulf Village Council. Roman Semenha to the minister of agrarian politics and food to facilitate the verification of the implementation of anti-epizootic measures against African swine fever in the Valkovsky region of the Kharkiv region. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior, Minister of Culture, on the use of legal measures to address the violations of Ukrainian legislation by the Russian Federation's cultural leaders in Ukraine. Helen Sotnik to Deputy Prosecutor Henprocuror of Ukraine - Chief Military Prosecutor for information on the conclusion of plea agreements in criminal proceedings against persons who committed corruption crimes, crimes against the foundations of national security and crimes against persons during the Dignity Revolution. Vladimir Parasuka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocurorate for the Possible Disruption of Construction (Creating) of the Yavorov Industrial Park, the "Golden Lion". Robert Gorvato to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources for the Harmonization of National Environmental Requirements for Wheeled Vehicles with International (European) Standards. Sergia Kiwalova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to preserve funding from the State budget of the children's specialized clinic "Hajibei". Dmitra Sphenov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in the field of immediate action with a view to halting violations of the rights of consumers of gas and restoring violated rights. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the subordination of the Barishov district testing laboratory. Paul Rizanenka, head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of the project documentation of the multi-family housing project on the street of Viacheslav Crnovola, in the city of Brovary, Kyiv region, to meet state building standards and standards. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures aimed at halting violations of the rights of citizens protected by the Constitution to a safe environment for life and health, the elimination of the ecological danger of pollution of the River Sąd, the provision of quality drinking water for citizens, the seizure of the river and the verification of the causes of the severe deterioration of the river and the sea of fish. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for increasing the competitiveness of agricultural production of agricultural farmers in the internal and external markets by channelling to the Ukrainian State Fund for Farming the funds of the Ukrainian State Budget in sufficient quantities to support about 100 farms. Andrija Galchenka and Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine on settlement of payments guaranteed by the State. Leonidas Hamza of the city of Kyiv on a grave violation by the limited liability of BC DIAMANT HOL of the prescription for the cessation of preparatory and construction work at the address of Kiev City, 2/1 Kruglounistska Street. Groups of National Deputies (Chervakovo, Ionova, Suslova) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the attack on public activists of the village of Kotsubinsk Kyiv region, illegal inactivity and incomplete service responsibilities of members of the National Police in the city of Irpen and the village of the city of Kotsubinsk. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of financial support from the State budget of Ukraine of the Red Cross Association of Ukraine. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on providing information on the economic justification for setting up a minimum wage of 3,200 dollars as of January 1, 2017. Jurija Derevjanka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need for funding in 2016 for reconstruction with the addition of Jaremčany I-III level 1 at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine, including a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to facilitate the resolution of the situation that has arisen in the "Ladzhina factory "Extra" Pat "Ukremedprom" and related to the change of business manager, and the situation that has arisen in the financial and economic activities of the enterprise in the part of the implementation of the finished product. Vladimir Aresonkova and Alexander Revega to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to control the traffic of trucks from Lviv and prevent further contamination of the central regions of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing our meeting for 15 minutes to complete the announcement of all requests from the national deputies. Vladimir Aresonkova to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Žitomir Region for the protection of property rights and interests of the owners of STOV "Friendship", the village of Ushomir Korosten district of Žitomir district. Alexander Vilkula to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the report of crime in the interest of PAT's fraudulent investors, Bank Mikhailski. Alexander Vilkula to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the National Court of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Court of the United States, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Court of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Justice, the Head of the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Court, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court, the Court of Justice of the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court of Justice of Justice and the Court, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court of the Court of the Court, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, Savchenko's hopes for the Ukrainian Defence Minister to provide information on the intentions of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to place a state defence order on the DP "Harkovska Construction Office of Morozov Machine Building" to produce a large number of BTR-4Es. Eduard Matviychuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Ministry of Health, State Road Agency, Odessa District Public Administration, Odessa City Council on the need to increase road safety in Ukraine and implement the United Nations General Assembly Resolution "Ten Years of Road Safety for 2011-2020" and European Parliament Resolution on European Road Safety for 2011-2020. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Odessa District Public Administration, Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the Odessa District Blood Transfusion Station and planning to provide appropriate assistance. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the civil society association "The All-Ukrainian Union of members of the hostilities" and the removal of obstacles to obtaining a communal lease. Jury Levchenka is headed by the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the abolition of city conditions and restrictions and documents on the right to construction work at the intersection of Borstagowska Street and the airfield in Shevchenkov district of Kiev, given the illegality of the building. Irina Suslowy and Olga Cervakovy to Kiev City Head, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Kiev, on the use of measures to dismantle illegal arrivals in the historic part of Kiev. Oleg Petrenk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for carrying out an official verification of the legality of the activities of Ukrainian Security Service personnel with regard to the passenger aircraft of Belavia, which carried out regular flights B-2-840 October 21st, 2016 Kyiv-Minsk. Groups of National Deputies (Petrena, Dove, Rudika) to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on the provision of information on public investment projects planned for implementation in the Cherkas region in the planned 2017 and the next two budget periods. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the Zitomir-Vizgradovich road in the renovation plan for 2017. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the position taken by the Directorate for the Protection, Use and Reproducing of Water Resources and Regulation of Fisheries in the Žitomir Region. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the National Plan of Action for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security until 2020. Sergia Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation in connection with the inability to conduct business by replacing land in ATO sites. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Agency of Ukraine for the State Service on the non-admission of Dekhtirenko Sergei to the State Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, and according to the Rules, the national deputies of Ukraine, who are not satisfied with the answers that have come to them from the authorities, have the right to contact our secretariat with a request to give them a word when making their requests so that they can express their position. To date, we have duly registered two such petitions because of the inadequate response of the ministries. This is from the National Deputy Igor Shurma and National Deputy Vitalia Kupriya. And according to the Rules, I give them three minutes before the performance (this is part two of article 226 of the Rules). But at the same time, I would like to refer once again to colleagues who want to use this right, to address the relevant structures of Parliament in a timely manner, so that your request for such a speech will be registered on time. Please, Mr. Igor. And then there's Mr. Cupray. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Today I would like to address the citizens of Ukraine with the following question. People’s deputies have the right to consult the government with an explanation of how state programs are being implemented. Regrettably, the inadequacy of funding for the health sector for 2016, which was carried out by a major reformer, a representative of the Kwitashvili Coalition, has led to the lack of funds for health - care workers today in a number of regions. In order to have a picture in Ukraine, we've analyzed two of these regions that are in the diametric opposite sides, which is Lvivščina and Harkushčina. What do we have today? In Lviv, by the end of the year, think not about construction, not about spending, but about 100 million dollars to pay. In Kharkish, 140 million dollars are not enough to pay wages. I'm turning to the government today. Consider the financing of wages for Ukrainian medical personnel. Will anyone in Ukraine today believe in the slogan of raising a salary in January 1, 3,200, if there is an alternative: either money or the Lviv region should be reduced by 7,000 health workers, and in Kharkishte, 7.5,000 health workers. That's because the minimum wage issue is not at the moment. Today’s health - care center stated that the Ministry of Health had no comment on the budget. I realize there's no money in that backpack, but it says that the ministry is satisfied with the budget, which has a total of 2.7 percent of GDP. At a time when, according to the recommendations of the World Health Organization, the EU needs only 5 to finance medicine at a minimum. If this is less than 3 percent, there is no need to count any health trends. They're very basic. This work is systematically negative because there is no government - approved concept of the development of the National Health System. We're offered January 1st elements of insurance medicine. So who's offering it? A person who today cannot confirm the original of his diploma? Does she have a higher education? Is this diploma nostrilized? Tomorrow, January will be no more, and who will carry out this program of government? Vladimir Borisovich, either appoint a minister of health, or take personal responsibility for the situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor. And please use the right to speak by the national MP of Cooper in accordance with part two of article 226 of the Rules. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! As early as late as September, I asked him if he had been heard from the Presidium about massive corruption at the state concert of Ucroborinprom. We just listened to Mr. Grossman Prime Minister, who said, "Deputy, please control where the budget is spent, point out if there are facts of corruption, I'll investigate." So I got a letter from Mr. Groysman, and on the seven pages I described all the corruption schemes, 300 million dollars were actually stolen at the expense of this company, and there were a lot of other businesses under it that went straight to the flat, just to the firms of the day, and they weren't buying any goods of service, and everything was done in a fictitious way. And here I got one paragraph of the answer to all of this, more than a month went by. That this answer indicates that instructions are given and that you will receive all the information you need from Minobronprom, Minfin, IMF, Minsk, Minkom. It's been almost two months, I've received five pages from the State Fiscal Service to confirm the facts of corruption, even more indicated, separately my address to the Henprocuratorium, the registered criminal conduct of the Zitomir Armouring Plant, the Kyiv garrison, the 410 Civil Aviation Plant, the Kiev Armoured Plant, the registration is, but our government is virtually unwilling to pay attention to this, the minister of defense zero reaction, all covered in darkness, Mr. Groissman threw it over to whom he thinks it's all remembered. Not to die, this money is stolen from our citizens' blood, our children and our fellow countrymen, who are actually dying in the ATO area, not the ATO, it's war, in the war zone. So I think, and I don't agree with this kind of feedback on the requests of the National MPs, and I'm going to continue to fight to keep the funds from being stolen in defense, and all the information is public right now, and I have it on Facebook, and it's going to be extra. My colleague would like you to support me in such a struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I hereby announce a recess of 30 minutes. And at 12.40, we see by the number of national MPs present, we have to move away from the order of the day that was proposed for consideration of the bill, and move immediately to the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ukraine’s national deputies insist on canceling the break and moving on to the performances. I'm only supposed to put it through the vote. Please put to the vote the cancellation issue. Please vote. [[12:10:36]] For-44 Only 44 deputies for cancelling the break. That's why 30 minutes is called a break, and then it's called "Rose." Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion at the Vulnerable. Please be busy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u88	Where are the factions' heads? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to prepare for the recording. I'd like you to make a recording of the performances in "The Miscellaneous." I invite you to hear the word of the national deputy Vuka, to whom the word Halasyuk has been given. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u89	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! The Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Rutte, said that his country could complete the ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, provided that Ukraine agreed to a new compromise. We are required to make an additional declaration, which foresees that the Association Agreement will not be the first step on the path of Ukraine’s membership in the European Union. The declaration should also provide for the lack of military cooperation and financial assistance by the EU. We claim that such conditions actually place the cross on Ukraine's Euro-Integration Perspectives. The question is whether we need a relaxed agreement that demeans Ukraine and the Ukrainians and denies our European future, condemning us to the status of the gates of Europe. Perhaps Mr. Rutte knows another country where people died for the European ideals under the flags of the European Union? The failure of the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU and the absence of a promised visa-free regime is the implementation of the Putin plan. The problem of the European Union is that there are no leaders who can see their noses. The values at which a united Europe was created — freedom, human rights, democracy — are now being grossly despised by the EU’s leaders. Last week, I and the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, and other colleagues, participated in discussions on the home of the founding father of the united Europe of Jean Monnet, the one on which President Kennedy wrote that he had done more in his mind to unite Europe than all emperors by force of arms. Many of today’s EU leaders, including Dutch Prime Minister Rutte, would not hesitate to visit this historic site with a tour and listen to ideas that were based on the European project 70 years ago. I hope this will help them to remember the fundamental values and ideals of a united Europe and to acquire the leadership qualities needed to lead Europe into the future, not to become entangled in the tails of events and to be manipulated from the outside, from Moscow. Oleg’s Radical Party claims that no one can deprive the Ukrainians of their natural right to return to the European home. Ukraine has fulfilled its part of the deal. We demand the same from Europe without any new conditions or warnings! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u90	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, history shows that any executive authority is prone to abuse. Humanity has no better idea than the institution of representation -- parliaments that have to control power and determine the parameters of its activities. In principle, here in the Supreme Council, in the session hall, there are the correct observations about the problems that surround the main masses of Ukrainian citizens. Clearly, this is a problem of untraceable tariffs. But as I can see, and I think that we are the only ones in this statement, the key problem today is the issue of health care. I think that when we talk about a national idea that can unite the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian state, it should be the idea of preserving the Ukrainian people from total extinction. Regrettably, all the discussions that have been made about increasing funding have remained exclusively a shock to the air. Among other things, it is the financing of 38 academic medical institutions that should provide highly qualified specialized medical care. They have absolutely nothing today: no bandages, no cotton, no silk materials, and so on. And when we, and each of us, respected colleagues, turn to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health is sending these letters to the scene. There's nothing there, they can't help, there's no medical equipment. Yes, they may provide cancer patients with free medical care, but provided that they bring the necessary medication for appropriate injections. And then, you lose confidence, people just die. Medical authorities claim that hundreds and thousands of people are doomed to extinction and extinction. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has reviewed our budget proposals. It would be good if, in the next plenary week, the Conciliation Council decided to take a decision before a profile committee, so that the Cabinet of Ministers would report on what the proposals of the Supreme Council were taken into account and what it would do on these key issues, including health issues. For the institutes of the Academy of Medical Sciences it takes 4 billion, at the very least, to have at least a fourth of them work, it takes 1 billion 250 million. And we need to look for these funds with you, dear colleagues, because we're talking about people. I would very much ask that we not talk about this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u92	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the People's Squirrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u93	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! In my speech, I would like to draw attention to how, in principle, we did a pretty positive and fruitful work, especially at our plenary meeting yesterday. This is the case, first of all, with a number of drafts that have been drafted on our committee of profile, the Committee on Industrial Policy. And as head of the subcommittee on entrepreneurship and technical regulation, I would like to draw quite a lot of attention to the bill that was voted yesterday in the second reading, number 3153. First. I would like to thank all the political forces, without exception, every MP who has taken an active part in voting on this bill. The bill itself refers to a moratorium on the implementation of planned measures for State oversight, control in the field of economic activity. What is the essence of this moratorium, why is it necessary? I think it's probably the least interesting question today, the most interesting business today, and the least of them should be interested in those who voted for it here yesterday. But there were a number of comments, and I am glad that our colleagues were paying attention to them. At the same time, I would like to say again for all of Ukraine, who are the initiators of this bill? First. I would like to thank our committee head Victor Halasyuk, then our colleagues, Victor, thank you, our colleagues, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, Efimov Maxim, Rosenblat Borislav, my colleague Humil Mikhail, Alexander Kugel, and Dubina Alexander. This is a committee of ours, this bill is a committee bill, it doesn't mean that some individual political power or some individual political actor initiated the bill. He is not political, he is a national decision. I hope that it will be signed by the President of Ukraine, and I hope that by 2017, if I'm not mistaken, we will have this one. By December 31, 2017. Thank you, Victor. The moratorium will work. And I hope that my colleagues, and first of all the people that I'm trying to help, are entrepreneurs in the Boguslav region of Kiev, Mironowski, Rokitnian, Kagarlitz, in other areas, not only in the area, but also in Ukraine, and perhaps in the city of Kiev, where we feel, in particular, arrogant, maybe illegal raids, and in other areas, and in other areas, we will be particularly supportive of this law (I hope that it will become law), and this will actually be a demonstration tool of work and decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, once again I would like to thank everyone. Clearly, I would like to thank those MPs who have been actively working on this bill. I would even like to thank Yuri Lewchenk separately, who has been quite active on individual amendments, and to say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u94	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u95	I won't take much time, I want to thank them again. Thank you very much. Gennady of Krivoshei, faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Ukrainian science is in a critical state today, and the level of attention from the authorities is extremely inadequate. According to the State Statistical Agency, in 2015 the total cost of scientific research and development was only 0.6 percent. While in countries like Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Austria, this is more than 3 percent of GDP. During independence, the number of scientists in Ukraine declined five times. Just think about it. By 236,000 less scientists in the country. From 300,000 to 64,000. What is it? This is a scientific catastrophe that sets a trend in deindustrializing a country that we simply owe you to correct. From 2010 to 2015 alone, the number of young scientists, those under 39, decreased to a quarter or 5.5 thousand. What's going on? There is a tremendous outflow of talent from Ukraine, not just the outflow of work hands, but the outflow of bright brains, talented scientists, that is totally unacceptable, because this leads to a decrease in economic activity, the loss of the country’s industry, and the loss of the country’s subjectivity, this needs to be corrected, and this is our mission with you. I would like to point out that the unemployment rate among young people in the country, among those under 24 years of age, was 25 percent in the first quarter of 2016. And for those who have some scientific research, they have an open green corridor abroad, and unfortunately, we have an iron curtain for investment in the country, and that needs to be corrected. So you and I are simply obliged to respond to the address of Boris Eugenovich Patton, President of the National Academy. I know that he went to all the factions and groups of parliament, to the key committees and yesterday to Oleg Valeriovich Lazko and we, together with colleagues from different factions, went to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to support the call of the Academy of Sciences to increase the funding of local science by 600 million dollars to ensure the primary needs of fundamental scientific research, which have a global perspective, to support talented young people in the science field, and to reform the Academy of Sciences. Of course, the Academy of Sciences needs radical, systematic, inclusive reform. But this does not mean that Ukrainian scientists today need to be led to hunger and emigration. That is why we urge the Prime Minister of Ukraine to consider this appeal, to increase the funding of the Academy of Sciences, and to encourage all colleagues to join in the systematic reform of this important scientific institution. Domestic science is the future of industry, and industry is the heart of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u98	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Teteruk. Teteruk, national deputy. Kirichenko gave the word of Galasjuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u99	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! Taking into account the attention of society to all the changes that are taking place in our country, I cannot help but draw attention again to the events that are taking place in our space field. I have repeatedly pointed out that it is, in fact, halfway under total collapse and destruction, precisely because of careless project management, which would lead Ukraine to a worthy level of inter-State cooperation and international space projects. Instead, we have a bunch of projects, like Cyclone-4, like Sapsan, like the implementation of the swan satellite, and so on, that just got billions out of the government budget, just billions of taxpayers' money. And for that, none of the space leaders are responsible. What's more, they're trying to re-establish jobs through competitions to control the cash flows, like Mr. Dehtyarov, who's put a half billion taxpayers' money into a private bank, and he's using them for his own reasons. Moreover, the law allows us to conduct vacancies. And the first stage showed that we have two candidates who have absolutely transparent ways for all to be involved in the second competition. Instead of completely negative behavior, primitive behavior: pulling away purses for $100,000 and brutal swearing, the second stage of the competition was broken. And what do we see? The Kabmin, instead of renewing, continue the selection in a transparent way, the legal way of the Director-General of the Southern KGB, is trying to do this culinaryly through the unique creation of a situation that the Director will be appointed solely by the head of the space agency that is now assigned to violate current legislation. He fulfills his duties and is assigned to the public service in violation of all the public service laws that we accept here in Parliament. Why am I talking about this? Because it's very important: there has to be responsibility for the projects. We need to identify and control exactly from the walls of our Parliament, what projects we are implementing, and what the state will benefit from that. Not the individual private interests of individual financial groups or individuals, but above all what dividends our country receives from the implementation of national space programs. So I'm going to keep everyone in the loop on what's going to happen, and I'm going to call attention to the huge strategic space sector that we need to keep from destroying and giving back.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u100	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u101	And the payoffs for robbing incompetent, completely irresponsible people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u102	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u103	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I would like to stop today on the subject of health care. Today, 100 days have passed since his appointment as Ulyana Suprun’s acting minister. The people who have come to Ukraine have received citizenship, calling for European values all the time. Thus, in European values, a person who comes into such a position is accountable for his work in 100 days. First of all, it must be said that it is not possible for her to report as a ministerial servant because she is not responsible for what is being done in the field. A minister of health needs to be appointed. I'm on my way, from my colleagues to my committee, to the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman: appoint a director of the Ministry of Health. If you want to offer us Suprun anyway, you should first look at the original of the diploma: does she have education? If she has education, we need to understand her contribution to the United States health reform system (both Clinton and Obama) that she did there, which innovations she can offer us here in Ukraine. First of all, if there's a diploma, maybe not about higher education, but about school, because I'm convinced there's no such diploma behind the backpack, it's empty, it's important to understand whether nostration applies exclusively to individuals or whether it needs to be legitimized, education in Ukraine. What do we face in three months? In three months, even a person with no education understands that autumn is coming, even the historian minister who worked for the health care of Kvetashvili, who needs flu vaccines. What does a person at a press conference say yesterday? We don't have flu vaccines because manufacturers don't have guarantees to buy it. Next topic. Today, one vaccine has been delivered, it has been bought, and it is not available, 5,000. It is being redeemed, so there is a need. What are you doing? Are you going to go on as Flowers do to a small country like Lithuania and ask for humanitarian assistance in the form of vaccines? As of today, three months have passed, people are good that, you walk in the dark glasses of the Security Service, the Security Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the President's Administration, no medicine purchased, no tender conducted, people are sick since January 1, 2016. Today we have to talk about the 17th year, and we didn't buy anything. And today the performer tells us at a press conference that 90 percent of the people are buying drugs for their money, and 92 percent are providing supplies. Vladimir Borisovich, either assigning her to a position of responsibility, or take full responsibility for the state of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u104	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Andriy Nemirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, the distinguished Ukrainian people. First of all, I'd like to draw the attention of the minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The IMF is failing to reform the IMF and the tremendous increase in crime and corruption not only among the population but also among the structural units of the IMF. I want to take as an example one of the units, it's now the so-spoiled service centers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the former MREV. And I'm going to take the service centers in the Dnipropetrov region as an example, because from this area that's been run by a man who's been in this position for 25 years, I've been working in this unit. His intercessors are not all new people, but the people of the same system who worked in these departments. At the moment, there are several criminal cases in this man, but the person walks around, smiles and tells everyone around that he will continue to buy his job, he will continue to buy, he will take 25 to 30 thousand dollars to the court, to others, to the prosecutor's office, to the BPO, and he will be fine. So I would like to draw your attention, Mr. Minister, to this particular problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u106	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u107	There's a lot of "Glory to Ukraine! A hero of glory!" Very often we are addressed by the name of Maidan, the heavenly One. But did you know that there is a square in Kiev of the Celestial 100? This is a place dedicated to the memory of the dead. The people who died in Maidan are the people we're sitting on this Council. And if Janukovic remained, most of the people here would never have joined the Supreme Council, ever! Similarly, he would never become the mayor of Kiev, Vitaly Klitschko, who once promised that there would never be any construction in the square of the Celestial Cemetery. But what do we see now? This is still a private territory that belongs to the former son-in-law of Mayor Kyiv Czernovetsky. I see that in the mayors of Kiev, this is a parity: some don't touch, others do. I get it. There's no time, no sense, no money. But who would the mayor of Kiev and his lieutenants be if it weren't for the Celestial 100? Would they become them? No, it's not. They promised that there would be no hospitality, no complex. But it's about to be built. Now Mr. Bondarenko, assistant and associate Caller, says no one knows anything. The Kyiv administration refuses to help protect the memory of the Celestial One. I want to address the Ukrainians now. If people who have come into power in the blood of Maidan do not live up to their promises and expectations, why do you have them in your power? If these people do not remember the dead, if their memory is dead, you should remind them of their authority. I'm addressing Mayor Kyiv Vitaly Klitschka. And I want it to be like my parliamentary address. Stop any construction. Leave the square of the Celestial 100. Besides, he won a contest in Berlin. Leave your memory. And remember, the people who died in Maidan hoped that they would live in a better society, in a better country. Return to the Ukrainians. Return the Kyiv's kyans. Enough to destroy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vadim Krivohatka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I would like to bring to your attention the difficult situation that now exists in the Zaporozhye State, which is headed by Mr. Pathov. Today, only 200 of the 6,000 ATO participants received land. 1,500 people have been granted permission to produce documentation that in itself does not guarantee that these people will get land because there is such a practice that on the same piece of land 2-3 people are allowed. When I met Mr. Tsvich, I asked him: "Why is there one piece of land and there are 2-3 permits?" I was told: The law does not forbid it, the law does not forbid it. This is a major problem. The cynicism of the situation came to the point that literally a month ago, a boy died in the trenches of a dead warrior’s mother, Ushakova. And when her mother asked her to get land, she was denied just by herself. In my opinion, when I began to consider this question, she was granted permission to do so today, and I ask: Why did you do so? She had some things wrong with her paperwork. What do I think this official should have done? Take this woman's hand, go around the office with her, and while she's at it. By 12: 00 a.m., she had to leave with permission to land. No, they don't. I'm not going to pass on gossip, but there's a situation that's already 500 dollars per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre per acre. I don't know what the situation is in other areas, but in Zaporozhye it is. Repeatedly, I heard this figure in conversations with people involved in the agrosector. The second question. Today these people feel so unpunished that there is a system in MinAPK such a state-owned enterprise called Conservation, the 86th Novomikolai Horse Factory. Yesterday, people living in the village of Trudové, where this horse factory is based, were covering the road because some young people, some of them, are a community of disabled people. One moment, please. A community of disabled persons were granted permission to produce documentation on this land. Do you understand? I was talking to Taras Kutov yesterday, and he said it was up to us, so we'll figure it out. But to what people already feel unpunished. I ask you to pay attention to Martinyuk, Tsviach and Mr. Groysman to bring to an end the order to put in place this Pathov, for which there are no rules, no laws, and he does everything he wants. For him there is no ATO soldier; for him there is no mother of a dead ATO soldier, a man, a milkmaid who has worked for 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u110	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u111	can't get the land. I mean, this guy needs to be put in place, otherwise there's gonna be trouble. A very high social resonance in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u112	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u113	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. It's a shame that there aren't many national MPs left in the hall today, and I think they'd be interested to hear some of the numbers that I'm going to hear from this rostrum today. But I think at least Ukrainian society will be able to hear these numbers. So what I'm saying is that today Ukraine is Europe's largest energy-dependent state: about $10 billion a year goes abroad for oil and gas imports. This is the largest in the structure of Ukrainian imports, 22 percent in the structure of imports take energy resources. This is because the exploration stocks of oil, gas, and gas condensate in Ukraine are the third largest in our country. Obviously, serious investments in the oil - gas industry had not been made until recently, since tariffs were nonmarketable. But lately, we've been seeing a market approach to the gas sphere, to the oil sector, and this allows us to at least partially talk about investment in this sector going away. But this is just one part of the problem. The other part of the problem is completely different. The oil wells in which the gas, oil wells, are located do not receive anything from the extraction of these energy resources. Think about it, in the territory of the Kosovo area, about 20 villages that have oil and gas wells in their territory, but in these villages roads are broken down, in these villages virtually destroyed by the FAPs, in many of these villages there is not even an elementary nursery. This is because there are oil wells in the territory of these forces. That's why my colleagues and I, thanks to the Ukrainian Parliament, registered and adopted, in the first reading, a law on the fragmentation of rents from oil products. And I'm going to the profile committee as quickly as possible to consider this bill, and I'm also going to my colleagues in the hall, because my deep belief and the 5 percent norm is not enough for communities to have real financial resources and real returns from the production of those hydrocarbons that are being extracted in their territory. And so by the way, I am going to Parliament anyway, to adopt this bill as soon as possible in the second reading. In addition, increase the portion of rent that will remain in the local communities, where oil and gas wells are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u114	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Gregory Timish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! National MP Gregory Timish, faction of Peter Dusty. My address concerns two very important questions about our cooperation with our European countries, with our neighbours and, in general, with them. In fact, there has been a very serious situation on the border of Ukraine with European countries in the context of exports of goods, freight and, in general, cooperation with these countries. We set ourselves a pro-European development movement, refocused our powers on cooperation in the financial and economic spheres with the countries of the European Union. And in the first half of the year, we had a very good dynamic, and I mean in 2016, in the first half of the year, there's a good dynamic about our trade with European countries. Analysts show over 100 billion plus last year. But the problem remained exactly in the context that we did not build our capacity to make sure that this capacity, the capacity to pass properly met these requirements for freight. In the border areas of Chernivetsk, the Lviv region, there must have been a critical situation for both the Carpathians and Odessa to ensure the passage of these goods by freight. Large lines on the border, five miles [5 km] long, sometimes prevent us from fulfilling these obligations to our entrepreneurs. We simply do not keep our promise to entrepreneurs. And, believe me, the question is not in the expertise or competence of the customs authorities, the question is probably in our non-systemic approach to constructing these points of entry. We made a commitment, and we do not. I'm just going to use this rostrum and I'm going to go to Vladimir Borisovich Groysman again to help him and very quickly to decide on the question of the construction of two points of the pass in the Chernivecki region, this is Krasnoylsk – Vicowo de Sus, as well as Djakovci-Rakovets. The checkpoint will unload, maximize the load. And I even want to add that the Romanian side is already planning to build a new bus, not in Ukraine, but through Ukraine with an exit to the Baltic countries, and they're willing to help us. So I'm once again turning to the government to financially help build these two. In order to continue the construction of these two points of the gap. This is a very important moment for improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u116	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u117	Good afternoon, my friends! Yesterday there was an event that we were expecting for two weeks -- finally a meeting of the Antimonopoly Committee, which canceled the corruption tender at $1 billion. It's one increment in the port of South Odessa. This tender is a classic corruption case, it must be described in crosswords as political corruption. So in February of this year, the South port is announcing a tender, a Dutch firm's 100 percent owned a company from Rotterdam, it's offering 90 million dollars less, but they're being thrown out of the tender. And the advantage is given to the company, which is only Belgian, and during the tender 55 percent, i.e. the stock control package goes to the benefit of two Cypriot offshore companies, and the director of the company is the National Front Assistant, Sergey Firemarck. All of this is happening in the eyes of the state when the country suffers from war, from the lack of funds for state-owned enterprises, for government contracts, under conditions where they do not receive pensions, they do not receive scholarships, they do not receive budget salaries. Only because this tender was declared a corrupt scheme at one of the parliamentary meetings in the presence of the Prime Minister did he make a political decision to stop this corrupt weapon. For two weeks nothing happened again because of political pressure. Thanks to statements made by representatives of the Dutch company, the Antimonopoly Committee finally decided that there should be a new tender with ProZorro, where all participants will compete on equal terms, whether they have a political roof or not. In general, the cynicism of political corruption in Ukraine is debilitating. I listened to my colleague Borislav Bereza about the square of Heaven's 100th, which is a shame to even talk about, not just from the rostrum of Parliament, but around my friends or colleagues, but it really does happen in our state. Today, I'm going to tell you another story that happened during the last government meeting, where Mr. Balchun, the head of the Crucifixion Station, spoke. He was talking about a few cases, and think about it, 780 million dollars was written off from the account of the Crucibles in the Savings Bank of Ukraine as repayment of liabilities and pennies in front of the bank of Renata Ahmtova. When this was done instantly: the appeal was lost – and on the same day the execution was carried out, and on the same day the money went out on that assignment. While other banks, for example, go into restructuring, other banks become state-owned enterprises, they become aware that the country has a state of war, and they go to concessions. Here, in one day, all the equipment was turned over. This reminds me of one day the money was transferred to the enterprises of the Janukovich family and the DTEK on the basis of judicial decisions when it was forbidden to transfer funds to the ATO for electricity consumption. But it did the same, just as it did in the eyes of the entire nation. That is, corruption has not disappeared, and only by social publicity can we stop it from time to time. But the main reason is the lack of political will in the leadership of the state. Only in these circumstances can we overcome it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u118	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u119	I hope that the social publicity and unification of anticorruption in Parliament will be able to combat corruption in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u120	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u121	Good afternoon. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. First of all, I would like to refer to the national MPs, the heads of district government administrations, district councils, the heads of state enterprises, the heads of trade unions and mining teams. On October 24, there was a college at the Ministry of Energy, on November 1, the meeting, on November 2, the Fuel and Energy Committee. And they're all related to one another -- it's a reorganization of the coal sector. Anatoly Korzun, deputy minister, represented the project of this restructuring, expressed what problems there might be in the future if it did not reorganize this sector. And in all these colleges, speeches, meetings, it was agreed that for two weeks they would come from the collectives, from all those interested in reorganizing the coal sector. I'm going to ask, first of all, all the managers, as I have pointed out, state administrations, district councils, where coal mining, coal companies, are actively involved in making proposals not only to the Ministry, but also to me personally, so that no further proposals have been made, for example, that no proposals have been made. I will, for my part, be accordingly. is actually a member of the college and it's a working group that reorganizes the coal sector. I will, accordingly, stand up for all the suggestions that will come. So once again, I urge you to make your proposals. I still hope that together we can save our coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u122	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Irina Podowak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Dear Vice-Speaker! I have two messages for you, two important messages. The sign of the degradation of Ukrainian culture, including its most elected representatives, I mean the members of the Supreme Council, is that we are naked populists and critics. I would like to reflect here on repeated accusations and accusations against the acting minister of foreign affairs. I have to point out that we already had health ministers who had a degree in medicine: we had therapists, we had gynecologists, we had surgeons, we had pharmacists. But I must tell you, there has been no effect on their activities. They became part of a corrupt mafia medical clan, and no reforms and health - care reforms in Ukraine have taken place throughout this period. And when we see another attempt to find a person intelligent, to find a person decisive, to find a person who is not bound by any obligation to this mafia, which, not a secret to the Ukrainian people, exists in the country of Ukraine, we begin to search out whether she has a doctor’s degree in higher education. I must remind you, if anyone forgot that President Havel did not have a law degree, he did not have an economics degree, he did not have a political degree, but he was the best and most devoted head of state. He's not the only one. What I'd like to share with you, honourable deputies, and I'd like to draw your attention to what's going on in your districts. Unfortunately, I have to inform you that, literally yesterday, I was approached by the director of the Lviv National Picture Gallery, which he happened to know is that one of the best and most valuable objects in Central-Eastern Europe, namely, the Podgorica Castle, is somehow passed on to the concession. I have to immediately point out to everyone here and to those who listen and watch, we're not against concession, we're against the ways and methods that do it, it's done secretly, it's not transparently under one investor that they don't know, it's not called. And I have to tell you that I didn't come to the Supreme Council personally to play with the methods and methods that existed during the dawning of the Azareans. So please note that we will also keep on the watch for this moment, and let us put in place new and transparent mechanisms for managing state property and national monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u124	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u125	Honorable colleagues, honourable presiding, distinguished Ukrainian people. I want to tell you about the struggle that is ongoing for order in the city of Odessa. In all, two decisions taken by the city council, the city's head is so active in persuading everyone, bringing more than 300 million dollars out of the city. The first solution is to buy a Krayan factory building for 185 million dollars, as if it were for office space. A neglected building that was just less than a year ago purchased for $11.5 million by a 26-year-old student working in a department. Today, we have heard this from the chairman during the inquiries to the Attorney General, the director of the NABU. I've been advised that this is a fact that I haven't heard and that I don't focus on it so much, and that I can pay for this money so that it's already a specific thing. Thus, they can now be drawn only for the preparation of an organized criminal group, so that they can be drawn to a completely different article. But we'd better stop that now. And I'm addressing the city's deputies, the city's head. There's no point in the city's head, there's no conscience, and to the city's deputies, stop! This disgrace will not be washed away. See how this building was purchased, and how it was sold. It's a disgrace to all of Ukraine. The second fact is also very interesting. The purchase of six acres [6 ha] of land that still belongs to the city, according to forged documents, is estimated at 131 million dollars under the graveyard. Nonsense! This company has been running around Odessa for over ten years and has offered to buy the entire complex, their buildings there, the $1 million requirement. Now, along with a building, an unnecessary city, it was purchased for 146 million dollars, actually $6 million, during a crisis of land, which is still a city. Look, no taxes were paid on this land. It's all white thread again. Where are we going? So I urge the Attorney General, I urge the Head of the NAB to scrutinize closely. More than 30 deputies signed this statement. And a lot of other people came and said, "Can we join the signing?" So in the Supreme Council, it's a matter under control, in the community of the pro-Ukrainian Odessa, it's a matter under control. The National Movement of Ukraine, which I represent, will also be controlled by this issue, and our Odessa motors will do that. I urge all investigative journalists to take a deep look at these two facts. Because we have a city head who's a specialist in telling the city how it's going to be, there's money on deposits in the cities, and the financial reform of decentralization in cities has become a lot more expensive. But the city was sinking as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u126	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u127	So I urge you to keep this situation under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u128	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Paul Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u129	Dear friends! Dear people of Ukraine! Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine. This is how we want to help the government to be successful. Several times and several questions we have addressed and addressed them, but for some reason these questions remain unresolved. We have a fantastic opportunity to be successful, especially in the area of rehabilitation of disabled people and including ATO participants. We have a complex that is being built in the Lviv region of Great Love and needs to be preserved for the winter. But for some reason, they don't pay for the cost of a specialized social security fund. Why? I turn to Mr. Reva again, I turn to the Prime Minister again, make the necessary funds available. This is the center that will allow us to rehabilitate our ATO guys qualitatively. This is the center that will allow us to rehabilitate other people who have the right needs. This is the center that will allow people from all over Eastern Europe to be rehabilitated because we have unique possibilities, a unique technology located in this center. The second item is the liquidation of the court of the Herson cotton combination, where in a unique situation where we have an investor, a European investor with EBRD funds, who are willing to invest in the largest enterprise in Eastern Europe, of course, in the light industry. No matter, the State Property Fund is in favour of its liquidation in order to destroy and not restore what is no longer in principle. In fact, if you come to the CBC, today it's a playground surrounded by a ban and where you can find a brick. Because we're losing as a state? We're losing jobs, we're losing the prospect of getting back to the production of cotton fabrics and other fabrics that used to be produced in this company. And in short, the situation in the military is the one that's getting the most attention. The question of the placement of the individual composition. We have repeatedly asked Mr. Malek about the need to buy moving, not moving, but things where you can put a special warehouse, both on the first and the second, on the third lines of defense for them to be human conditions. Because it is impossible to accommodate a soldier in the third millennium who needs to rest qualitatively and keep talking about fighting or any restoration of his life force when it takes place in a cold tent in winter. We are in the third millennium, people of the good, Ukrainian industry have developed unique products that allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u130	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Unique things that allow us to place a special stash on the right lines of defense and allow people to rest in a quality manner. This will ensure increased alertness.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u132	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u133	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear Ukrainian people! I would like to make such a statement today regarding the clarification of the activities of the local authorities, the Supreme Council, so that people will know who is who, so that people will know who is voting, so that people will know who is doing the crimes. Look, yesterday, the Supreme Council, by clicking on the opposition block, by clicking on Rebirth Group, voted two building laws, 2418a and 3153. The laws that will increase the vacchanalism of the forgetful city will increase the vacchanalism of the building mafia. This was done by voting through an open button. And despite my demands for the speaker of Paris to re-vote these issues, this requirement has not been met with a violation of the Rules. It would seem that let's finally take criminal responsibility for buttoning. No, it's not because then, you see, you should punish yourself. But what's interesting? What happens in the Supreme Council is even flowers. Because not many people know, but here at the Kiev City Council last Thursday, on October 27, there was this phenomenal thing, the know-how of Mr. Klitschka's coalition and his friends from Unity. They voted in general, not for someone, but for a deputy member of the Kiev City Council, and he voted instead of a deputy. Yeah? And by the way, so nobody says it was loud, it's all clearly on the video, you can see what kind of assistant this is. Yeah? This assistant is named Viacheslav Boyadin, a confidant of Mr. Victor Pilpisin, a forger bandit, his many - year - old lawyer. Today, he is a helper to the brother - in - law of Philippes, a deputy of the Kyiv City Council of Constantine Yalova. And when Constantine Jalowius brought him into the hall, he put him in the place of the deputy of Kiselov, he hid him, he covered him with a wide back, and he voted in place of Kiselov. Do you understand? Well, it's just not that it's absurd and pressure, and it's that kind of abuse of the Ukrainian people that I don't know, it's hard for me to imagine what else I can think of. It's interesting, by the way, that this Viacheslav Boyadin is an assistant, an official assistant to the community principles of one very "euro-optimistic" national MP from the BPT faction, who sits here in the Supreme Council and talks about new principles, about the European country and so on. That's why I insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] I insist that I insist that these people should be brought to criminal responsibility. I made appropriate references to the law enforcement authorities on this matter. Because, as a minimum, there is an article in the Criminal Code, interference with automatic systems, is an article in the Criminal Code for the Acquisition of Powerful Powers. Please, please, Oksano, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u134	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u135	And to the honourable voters, to the venerable Ukrainian people, I ask you to understand that no laws of these people will stop as long as you choose them. Please understand who is who and do not vote for such bastards. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u136	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u137	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to ask my colleague that if we call one of the assistants of the national MPs, let's respect each other. Or we blame one of the national MPs for something, then we should call it the national deputy's name, and if not, then don't talk about it. Because, for example, I stand with honor and dignity for every name of my assistant to the national deputy, and our faction stands ready to be held accountable for each one of its people. I think it's about every faction and every national MP, including yours. So I'm saying that if there's any evidence, we need to talk about it in fact, but then we need to call it from the beginning to the end. I didn't hear the last name, I'm talking about what should be the deputy's last name. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in fact we are approaching 2017 and today we have a fairly active problem, and it's relevant to the formation of the budget in 2017. I'm not a major MP, unlike any of my other colleagues who've been standing in front of me or standing in front of individual colleagues working in their district at all. But it turned out that I was a sort of, everyone already knows, from the town of Boguslav, in this district I worked and was elected deputy Alexander Oneshchenko. But at the same time, today the district is without a deputy, and so I'm fully responsible for this district, and I'm going to open and open up new public reception facilities. And, at the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the new head of the Kyiv District Public Administration regarding the 2017 budget. In the last two years, it has been estimated that in these circuit centers, called Boguslavsky, Mironowski, the Cagarlic and the Rockitnian regions, the least funds were allocated, including from the Regional Development Fund and in general on individual programs. Today I know that, in principle, thanks to First Deputy Lev Revazovitch Parzhaladze, the program has passed, and is actually being held now, a competition is being held and buses are being purchased, school buses are being purchased to access schoolchildren from small villages to schools in other villages. I would like to point out that, for example, in the Boguslav region there is such a rather serious village, a large village, a village called Medwin, where students can't reach from other nearby villages. Because there's an old, broken bus that can't deliver these students that's constantly breaking down. And at the same time, the village in question is in the future, can become an object of the territorial community, the territorial community is a preliminary decision. So I'd like to turn this over to the district administration. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the head of the Kyiv District Administration to my appeal, which is already being addressed on the basis of the response of the Cabinet of Ministers, and to include a number of objects in the Regional Development Fund program. These are bridges, these are roads, these are schools that need both capital repairs and replacements today. Just think, there are objects with no repairs at all, I'm not talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u138	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u139	Not being repaired for more than 30 years, since the Soviet Union. This is a city, for example, in Boguslav. The city council can't hold him. So please support my initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u140	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Soboljev Jehora. Instead of Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u141	I really want to talk to people today. I see that a lot of people who were indignant at the beginning of the week with electronic declarations are now starting to squeeze it out of their minds. They want to forget because they think that nothing will change, and they do not want to upset themselves. It's actually the scariest thing that can happen. If this transparency doesn't mean responsibility, it doesn't mean that it doesn't need to, it actually throws us back. Social disappointment is the worst thing that can happen to us all. It's very easy to avoid. To that end, every person, every citizen, every citizen, has to say to himself, there will be no politicians in my country who are incapable of explaining property. The scariest thing about all these declarations is not the Eiffel Towers of Cash, not the Powers, not the Churches, the most terrible, my dear Ukrainians, who you have chosen, more than once, many have chosen. And when everyone laughs at Deputy Dobkin, I'd like to see more than 20,000 voters vote for this deputy. In honest democratic elections, which were chosen, including by human blood, including not by one revolution. So a huge request, at each meeting with a politician, to start with the question: Explain your declaration. Every social network contact, in a taxi that needs to be discussed: Where did you get that money, why can't you explain it to me? Without a doubt, now is a very important time for the anti-corruption prosecutor and for the entire anti-corruption office, and they have a unique opportunity to show to all the society what responsibility they have, that they are ready to bear this responsibility and that the new anti-corruption bodies are indeed a step forward. But the last thing I want to say to everyone is, you can't give up. Every politician, every criminal case, all the more, every sentence will be thrown out of the flesh, and it will not be easy. We've given this country to the people who are stealing it. To get it back, everyone has to do a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u142	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u143	Russia’s second information war against Ukraine began quite recently. It started in the sequel. Unfortunately, we lost the first one. In 2013 - 4, especially during the terrible events of August 2014, the Ukrainian army, not the Ukrainian volunteers, lost the information army. We were temporarily defeated by Russian propaganda in one battle. And yesterday, when I saw in the towers of the Supreme Council, this is the misfortune of the Ukrainian people, this disgrace, the disgrace of the Ukrainian people -- Helen Bondarenko, who on all Russian channels, practically all of the talk shows, is throwing dirt on Ukraine, she's throwing dirt on the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian people, and it's scary -- she's putting dirt on a Ukrainian soldier who's actually stopped the fascists, the Russian, the accent, the fascists. And, Yegor, I'm addressing you: in fact, we can only talk about e-declarations when we win this undeclared war against us from the east. You know what's scary? That she was brought into the hall by the bastards from the Opposition Block. A group of regions that calls themselves opposition but, unfortunately, is the fifth column. And, you know, when they feel at peace in the Ukrainian Parliament right now, there's probably something wrong with our society. I know that if there's a minomet fire in Kiev, an artillery of Russian troops, we're not going to want declarations. We won't be up for economic development, we won't be up for it. Unfortunately, after Maidan and the Dignity Revolution, we didn't conclude, first of all, that it was ideologically informative. And we keep putting up with these bastards. Not only do we continue, we continue to be tolerant. Tolerant to the enemies of Ukraine. You know, the thing is, it can't be forgotten, and it can't be silenced, because the survival of the state depends on it. The survival of Ukraine depends on it. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u145	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this. That I have raised these questions on a number of occasions, and I will again stress that today the destabilization of Ukraine, thanks to inadequate policies of the head of the National Bank, threatens national security and the economic sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. In recent years, we have really failed. Ukraine has suffered such a loss because of the rule of Pottery that it will take us many years to stabilize and restore strength and financial stability in our country. The destruction of the national currency three times, the closure of more than 80 banks, the elimination of them in a practical way, these thousands of people, the looted investors, this mistrust in the banking system has been demonstrated on a regular basis, including those electronic declarations, this is the fall in production, the fall in exports, the fall in the Ukrainian industry, because of the fact that business is not being financed today, the small, medium-sized business is not creating jobs. That's why I've repeatedly called on the Head of the National Bank for this negative policy, I've asked the Security Service, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the NAB to actually verify Gontareva's cooperation with Russia, because today the Russian banks' representation has increased in the financial market in Ukraine from 10 percent to 40 percent, the same Alpha Bank, Prominwestbank, Sberbank Russia and other banks today are being refinanced, and unfortunately they're intensifying their influence and thus endangering the economic security of our state. I want to point out that in two years, Gonnaarov has given away more than 200 billion in refinancing, of which 100 billion are virtually non-refundable, 80 billion, the state is subsidizing the Deposit Guarantee Fund, and now it's headed by Vroslin, and now it's called the Deposit Guarantee Fund, because people can't take their money that's stuck in banks today and that are consciously destroyed, as it was done with the Godfather Bank and many others. So, of course, I would like to point out that we as deputies today should not be indifferent to the matter, but unfortunately, under the Constitution, we have no right to resign the Head of the National Bank. We agree with it, according to the Constitution, but we cannot resign. So I initiated an appeal to the faction leaders, to the leaders of all the groups in Parliament, to give everyone a representative to be able to register a temporary commission in Parliament and to investigate the activities of the Head of the Government, who is leading his policy of destroying financial independence, to destroy the economy of our state. Instead of stimulating the Ukrainian business, instead of giving available credits, lowering the bill and thus developing our economy, it destroys it. So I urge you, representatives of all factions, to give a representative so that we can register a decree and consider this criminal activity of the Head of the NBA in the next plenary week. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u146	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is the time of the national MP Meparishvili, who handed over to the national deputy of Krivoshea.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Meparishvili is sitting in the hall, he gave me his word. In accordance with the Rules, this can be done. Thank you all. Thank you. It's the People's Front faction, Gennady Krivoshea. Dear colleagues, I thank you for being very active against me not to speak out, but I'm going to come up with a problem that concerns not only me today, but a whole range of participants in state enterprises who, by the way, want to sell and privatize. So I'm talking about state enterprises in the area of standardization and metrology. Where the State Property Fund is used for sales, there are 3 objects that work in the field of metrology and standardization. This is the Kyivsky district, the Plains State Enterprise, and the Chernigiv State Enterprise. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that the data of the objects is being transmitted in violation of existing legislation. Because to date, objects are not allowed to be exported in general, such as state - owned enterprises, which work in metrology. It is in every area of the world today that there are objects that work that carry out the trust of the appropriate counters, various devices that have been believed since the time of the Soviet Union. So today, we actually have 25 of these state-owned enterprises in the country, and each of them has appropriate benchmarks, each of them has appropriate access in a given field or in a given field to trust the appropriate counters or any other means. So far, the State Property Fund has included these three items that I have mentioned in this list. And so I'd like to point out that I'm in favour of privatization, and I'm not in any way provoking or opposing it. But we need to make it clear to ourselves what objects we want to sell. If objects are actually positive for the state, objects that pay 75 percent of their income to the budget are profitable today and actually have a strategic meaning, so I think without specific discussion and in fact serious decisions can simply not be taken for sale. So I'm going to call again, once again, the Ministry of Economics, the Deputy Minister of Economics, and I'm going to look at this and do everything legally, so that our state-owned enterprises, especially in the field of metrology and standardization, aren't just on the left-hand side, sold out on the right-hand side, incomprehensible to whom and incomprehensible to what interests. I know the Ministry of Economics hears me in principle. I've already been to one of these companies. For the next few weeks, I will make a trip to the next two businesses to conclude. And as the head of the technical regulation subcommittee, I want to say, it's on the control of not only my own but also our profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u148	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Bresück.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u149	Your Majesty, the presiding lady! Ladies and gentlemen! We had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine today and talked about the budget. The adoption of the budget this year is both economic and political, for the country’s failure to adopt a high-quality budget will lead not only to political chaos but to economic chaos. A serious, difficult, difficult conversation with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Social Policy, other ministers and our clear demands. We have to close a hole called the customs office. The Self-Help faction has two major proposals. It's the allocation of customs equipment with appropriate care, it's just empty. So far there's only 200 million in the budget. 200 million is nothing. The second question is to install RROs on customs for goods that are subject to insurance. Only this small step will bring several tens of billions of dollars into the country’s budget. These are simple things that will allow the budget to be filled today. The next thing is very important, it's a military budget. What's done in the military budget is there's no limit to cynicism. By the way, today, the guys from Idar were being kept safe today, who were killed by a grenade breakup that was made in Ukraine. Of what steel? How much did it cost? We're going to demand that the budget be combined with the establishment of a special commission in the Supreme Council, which will control as civilian control over the cost of the defence budget. That's what we said two years ago. Today, there is an objective reality. When we allocate hundreds of billions of dollars to defend ourselves, we have to control how they are used with you. Because the volunteers continue to provide basic needs for our army for sure. The next is energy efficiency, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, the budget translates many responsibilities into local budgets. But we demand that the State Regional Development Fund be used at least 50 percent by law for energy efficiency in schools, hospitals and other state and municipal institutions, because it's also a hole that brings a lot of money out of Ukraine. And the last one is pensions. There can be no difference between the smallest pension of 949 dollars and even raising the minimum wage of 3200. This is a disgrace to Ukrainian society. Therefore, the requirement for a minimum pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u150	Please, 10 seconds. All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u151	At least by 1480 is our requirement for this year's budget. Otherwise, we will not prove to people that we care for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u152	Thank you. And I invite you to say this is your last speech, Mrs. Tetjana Richkov, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u153	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. I want to go to Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, because Uljana Suprun has been addressed in vain, both in writing and orally, and it's all in vain. I have a medical license in Dnipri district 27. Its premises are located in the medical academy. In the courts, they won an agreement and were to be in this territory. But what does Ulyana do? Signs the document to move the children to nowhere. Children do not have access to accommodations, children are not accommodated in dormitories, and 60 children live in volunteer families. Children from the area, most of the area. At four o’clock in the morning, they get up to come from Yellowwater and learn in this medical school. It's a great establishment. There are teachers from the medical academy. It can't be destroyed, it's UNESCO's Associated School, they're third-placed. If we're looking for a place to move children now, we're not going to be able to get teachers from the medical academy. We're going to destroy this medical facility. Children then study at the medical academy, and 30 children are now saving the lives of our ATOs in the hospital of Mečnikov, in the district hospital. So I'm asking you to pay very close attention to that. If we don't need our young people and if we don't need doctors, most of whom, 60 percent, should be retired, let's not do populism and say we don't need medicine. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-04-m0.u154	Thank you. We finished working in the plenary. Please. Dear colleagues, second hour, I repeat. [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the morning session closed. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, November 15, at 10 a.m. The following week is a week of committee work.
