ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time allocated for recess is over. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare to participate in the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Dear colleagues, I urge you to come in. I'd also like the head of the budget committee to come to the hall, because he's going to report now. My colleagues, while we are waiting for the people's deputies, I would like to inform you that yesterday, October 19, 2016, the Senate of the Czech Parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in Ukraine. The Senate of the Czech Republic expressed concern that heavy arms are increasingly being used on Donbas and claimed that Russia must stop supporting separatists and restore Ukraine’s control over the Ukrainian-Russian border. The resolution also emphasizes that the occupation of Crimea is the result of Russian aggression and has no effect or analogy in international law. 45 votes out of 63, this declaration was supported. Thank you to our Czech colleagues for their support and clear understanding of the Ukrainian situation. Friends of Czechs know what occupation looks like, and they remember Russian tanks in 1968 that rumbled on Prague’s hearth. I consider the declaration to be a good sign for the development of Ukrainian-Czech relations, an expression of solidarity with Ukraine. We'll do everything we can to make sure that the Russian tanks never return to Prague again, but we need the support of the entire civilized world. The atmosphere in central Europe is changing. Russian influence agents, who from high symbolic positions in these lands are singing Putina, are losing their influence. It's important. I would like to thank all of us, the authors of the Declaration: Irina Heraszczenko, Mrs Hani Hopko, Maria Ionovai, who initiated the EU Parliamentary Appeal. I welcome colleagues with external political success, we continue to fight for Ukraine and the whole free world. Thank our colleagues as you welcomed our delegation to Paris. [[Applause]] Colleagues, please come into the hall. I would like to inform you that, as indicated in the agenda and in accordance with the Ukrainian Rules, at 16 hours we will begin our consideration of the draft National Budget Law for Ukraine for 2017 (registration No. 5000). I would like to inform my colleague that by the law, by October 20, Parliament had to process and submit its recommendations to the State Budget. So the logic is that the government has submitted a draft budget to Parliament in time, Parliament has been able to make proposals, and today we actually have to talk about the recommendations of parliamentarians and the Ukrainian Parliament to the government before the second reading. This procedure requires separate consideration. As the bill is being considered in full reading, so it will be possible to speak to all the heads of factions. It'll be 15 minutes for the nationals. It will be considered as a complete procedure and it will take more than an hour. If there's time left for a colleague, we'll be able to look at the daytime issues that we've been left unexamined for lunch. I think there's going to be another possibility. Colleagues, I've explained the general logic to you, and I'd like you to come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. The MPs are already in the room. Dear colleagues, please register, please. [[16:11:31]] Registered - 360 I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. As I have already pointed out, this bill cannot be considered as a reduced procedure, it has a complete procedure for consideration. I'm going to propose that I be, as it is supposed, the first speech from Parliament, from the Committee on Budgets. I'd like to ask you to agree to give us more time to ask questions and less time to the minister of finance, because this is actually a parliamentary document. And then there'll be opportunity to speak to all the factions, and then to the MPs -- 15 minutes, you get it. So we can move on and we move on to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2017, number 5000. And from the budget committee to the report, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Gorbunov Alexander Volodymyrovich is invited. Please have to report in 10 minutes, and then there'll be 5 minutes for questions and answers. Please, Mr. Alexander. Please listen carefully to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, dear friends, dear colleagues! The preparation of the draft State Budget Act 2017 for consideration in the first reading was carried out by the Budget Committee in accordance with article 156 of the Supreme Council Rules. Since the submission of the Bill to the Supreme Council, the Budget Committee has carried out thorough work on its positions and indicators, taking into account the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, which has led members of the Committee to pay attention to the following. First. The draft budget for 2017 is prepared taking into account government initiatives such as 5044 and 5132 on amendments to the Tax Code, 5,131 amendments to the Budget Code, 5,130 amendments to certain legislative acts, and 5,142 on the provision of revenue to the State of unjustified assets. Thus, before the approval of the draft State budget for the following year, the second reading requires the adoption of the bills, ensuring that their positions are reconciled with a view to achieving the balance of government and local budgets. It's different. At present, there is no reason to increase the tax revenues of the draft budget and there are risks of implementation of planned incomes and revenues from the privatization of state property. Third. When processing the cost indicators of the budget, the state of budgetary security of the spheres of activity, most of the principals, has been analyzed, drawing attention to the cost constraints for the proper performance of their functions. Fourth. When considering inter-budgetary relations with representatives of local governments and their all - Ukrainian associations, the greatest concern was the lack of financial resources for the State’s delegated powers in connection with new approaches to the identification of educational and medical subsidies and the financing of tax passages. In general, the preparation of the bill for the first reading by the Committee of Budgets has dealt with a thousand 167 proposals from national deputies and committees that are generalized in the table of proposals. It should be emphasized that, according to the requirements of part two of article 156 of the Rules, the proposals registered in the apparatus after October 1 were not considered or included in such a table. It should be noted that most of the proposals do not meet the regulatory requirements for their balance. At the same time, individual national deputies made balanced proposals only formally because the proposed sources for additional expenses are not properly supported and cannot be considered realistic accordingly. According to a previous estimate, the total budget requirement for the proposals is over 1 trillion dollars. As a result of the committee’s work, a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the conclusions and proposals for a bill and a table of proposals for the legislative initiative has been prepared. The committee proposes to take fully or partly 445 proposals into account and to reject 722 proposals. In particular, it is proposed to support proposals for strengthening parliamentary control in the implementation of the State budget in part with the Committee on the Budget of State Guarantees, over planned government borrowings, the allocation of subsidies and funding under separate budget programmes. Regarding the provision of subsidies by the local budget for State support to persons with special educational needs. As regards the granting of subsidies for the construction of infrastructures for the unified territorial communities from the State Budget General Fund. Regarding the provision of subsidies to local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual areas, with a further section by decision. Distribution by decision of the government agreed with the budget committee for partial recovery at the level of the current year of the National Academy of Medical Sciences to provide financial support for highly specialized medical care at the clinics of the Academy. The source of additional expenditure is the increase in costs from Nazbank and the redistribution of expenditure by individual programs. With regard to the government's processing of the government's increase in government budget revenue from the taxation of amber mining and implementation activities, licenses for use of 4G radio frequency resources. And from the planned use of state gas distribution systems. At the same time, it is suggested that the government be asked to further address the question: on general approaches to the assignment of academic and social scholarships to higher education students, given the need to preserve students' motivation and successful learning; on the adequacy of the transfer of health facilities as defined in Appendix 10 to the Local Budget Financing Bill and the provision of such facilities at the expense of the State budget; on the redistribution of expenditure on national security and defence in accordance with the proposals made; on the review of the allocation of an additional grant for the maintenance of education and health care facilities in part to all local budgets that have relations with the State budget; on changes in the allocation of educational subsidies for the elimination of imbalances in relation to their allocation solely to the remuneration of teaching staff; dealing with the financial provision of compensation for the passage of individual categories of citizens and the provision of assistance to citizens; on the possibility and the appropriateness of increasing individual expenditure on proposals submitted to the Bill, based on the available financial resources of the State budget and on the assessment of the justification of the additional need for budgetary expenditure. According to part of article 157 of the Rules, the State Budget Bill is deemed to be adopted in the first reading if a draft decision on the conclusions and proposals is adopted as a whole, which will gain the status of the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. Today they have also returned to the consideration of individual proposals (numbers 263 and 677 on the table of proposals) and have offered to take them into account in part as a government assignment. In addition, paragraph 2.7 of the draft budgetary conclusions on the assignment of the government after the words "Ukrainian External Intelligence Service" should be supplemented by the words "to the level of service needs". Thus, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft regulation 5000-P on the conclusions and proposals for a bill with such amendments be adopted on the basis and as a whole prepared by the Committee. In the draft budget conclusions, section III, paragraph 2.4, add new sub-items to the government's budgeted tasks, code 1002120 and code 3505010 and in accordance with the table of proposals, amendments 263 and 677 will be considered part of the government's mandate. Section III, paragraph 2.7, after the words “Ukrainian External Intelligence Service” should be supplemented by the words “to the level of service needs”. Please support the committee's decision with just-spoken clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to stay in the workplace. No, please stay, Mr. Alexander, there will be questions and answers. Yes, here, from the rostrum. My colleagues, I would like to point out that I have made a proposal so that we can give the Committee more time to ask questions. At the expense of the Minister of Finance. Because this document has been prepared by the Committee on Budgets and, in fact, the Committee on Budgets can give a full answer. Is that the position taken? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I give six minutes to the budget committee and the minister of finance no questions asked. So 6 minutes. I'm asking you to record a question to the representative of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Please hold a recording, colleagues who want to sign up. Guzenko Vitaly Ivanovich, Peter Dustenka's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u4	Guzenko Vitaly, 92 constituency. I have a simple question about land indexing for the following year. What will be the land’s monetary valuation index? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u5	That's the question, that's it. I can only give you the answer in the amendment section. What kind of correction is that? Can you specify? If it was given.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u6	Thank you. Sergey Mikolaiovich, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u7	Sergey Eutuszek, faction of Fatherland. First of all, in the State Budget for 2017 project on health, the cost of municipal services and health-care facilities has been transferred to local budgets, and approximately 6 billion dollars is not sufficient if, according to our estimates, 6 billion dollars. Where do you think the local authorities will take this money, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u8	I beg you, Mr. Sergei, I ask you to look into the conclusions and commission of the government. If there was such an assignment, it would be counted later.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u9	Musei Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u10	Dear reporter, please tell me by analyzing what we have to say right now, in fact, I think that's a completely wrong approach when you gave the MPs an hour ago to get to know them, and now we have to ask them questions. This is, first of all, an unacceptable approach that you apply to your fellow national MPs. In fact, the Health Committee has submitted proposals to the Budget Committee to increase the funding of nearly 70 billion dollars. Without the funding of adequate health care facilities, including the one that the previous speaker has asked, reform cannot be achieved at all, but it can be ensured that medicine is functioning properly today. Subsidies last year are not enough to pay November and December. Why are almost all of the Health Committee’s proposals rejected? Explain why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u11	This question will answer the representative of Minfin when he answers, with your permission. And we're going to point him, that's the question, to the representative of Minfin. Okay, do you copy, Mr. Oleg? Okay, thank you. Barna Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u12	Thank you. Ternopilska is an agrarian region. So the first question is, if they don't return the taxes to the private industry, what are the conditions of the premiums created for small and medium-sized farming? One second. Eliminate VAT reimbursements because the biggest agrohholdings are being abused. And we ask the question of lending, of lending to the agricultural producer in terms of distribution of funds in the regions according to the number of agricultural arrangements, not in terms of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u13	Mr. Oleg, I'd like to give you another place like this. Have you been amended to make your budget committee proposals? We were only considering amendments made to the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u14	Thank you. Please, Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u15	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I would like to inform you that Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich was present at the committee meeting. And the outstanding achievements of our Paralympics must be supported, but this amendment is balanced. I would like to make it clear that this proposal from the Social Committee - Mr. Shuhevich, unfortunately, is currently being delayed in the West, that he should have made a statement from the Radical Party - that this amendment should have been made in the following edition: ". including the financial provision of the West Rehabilitation and Sport Centre facilities and the design of the All-Ukrainian Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation Centre of the National Committee on Disabled Persons Sports of Ukraine in the amount of 30 million dollars under the special budget fund in terms of development." This proposal is accepted by the Social Guarantee Fund, and Minfin also supports it. The request that, when there is a vote, we vote against those rights, which are generalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u16	Please respond. Answer me. Answer me, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u17	Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u18	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front, head of the coal industry subcommittee. Tell me, please, 285 amendments to the investment project for the technical refurbishment of the "Resurrection" mine at a cost of 142 million, why is it rejected? Every time we raise the question of how to upgrade the mines, it's precisely those costs that would go to the equipment for the development of new lavas. Why is this amendment not taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u19	Mr. Michael, thank you for asking. Such adjustments, resourceful, were many. And there were a lot of amendments, including the space agency, and the Yumash, and so on. So the resource adjustments, either let's give the source of the filling, or they've just been rejected so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u20	Thank you. And one last question. Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna, please. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u21	Vojcitsky Victoria, Self-Help Unit. I have a specific question for the Committee on Budgets. What is the position of the Budget Committee, which is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to leave the tax rate for working pensioners at 0.85 percent. Do you support this shameful norm, or are you on the side of the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u22	Are you out of time? Okay. Colleagues, don't be. You answered, didn't you? Colleagues, look. Colleagues, we will have the opportunity of each faction and all the deputies. Let's not go out on a schedule, this will be a full discussion, a colleague will be able to speak to everyone. Thank you so much for introducing Gorbun's Alexander Volodymyrovich. Mr. Alexander, did you answer or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] He's preparing the answer. He's preparing an answer. To be thorough and deep. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u23	If you don't mind, I'd like to give the word to the head of the working group, Amelchenka Vasil Vasilovich. He will answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u24	One minute, Amelchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u25	Can I ask you one more question, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u26	Colleagues, colleagues! What's going on, colleagues? There was a question for the Committee on Budgets. The only one, colleagues, is to be asked to respond directly to the person who dealt with it. So, come on, we're gonna waste an hour. Mrs. Vojitzicka, answer the question one more time. And the person who did this directly will answer you. Can I have a minute, please? Wait a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u27	In the 2017 budget, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes that 85 percent of pensionable pensioners should be included. The question is very simple. What is the position of the budget committee on this issue? Is it about promoting the interests of people and retired workers? Is this shameful norm being preserved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u28	Please, Amelia, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u29	The committee's position is, of course, to support and support people's social standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u30	Thank you for your thorough response, colleagues. Dear colleagues! Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Alexander Alexandrovich Daniluk, is invited to the report. Alexander Alexander, Ukraine awaits your word. Please report to the rostrum, so close to the deputies. Please, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Alexander Alexandrovich Daniluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u31	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! The government has ensured that the Ukrainian National Budget project will be submitted for 2017 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Budget Code. The bill set out a number of priorities: ensuring the country’s security; meeting its debt obligations in full; predicting the necessary amount of expenditure to raise social standards at a rate higher than the projected consumer price index; and promoting economic development, particularly in road and agriculture. During the process, a large number of meetings, meetings, discussions, and discussions were held on the Committees of the Supreme Council. We are grateful to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget and its secretariat for its fruitful cooperation, constructive and meaningful dialogue. More than a thousand amendments have been made. We were forced to reject those who were not supported by resources, that is, they were not balanced. And what is now being proposed by the committee is also being supported by the government. The Budget Committee prepared a draft Supreme Council Regulation on conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act 2017 at its meeting and approved. If they are approved at today's session, what we urge you to do, the government will ensure that they are processed within defined deadlines within the approved resources of the budget project. I want to stress that our priority and our shared, I stress, is to get a realistic and balanced budget for 2017. Therefore, I propose and appeal to you to support this decision as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u32	Thank you, colleagues. Alexander Alexanderovich, thank you for your report, please take your place. And now there's going to be a speech from the head of the account. Colleagues, I gave time for questions to the Committee on Budgets, but at first I announced it, no one objected. That I've doubled the questions to the budget committee so we can ask more questions there, colleagues. All right, three minutes, Alexander Danieluk. Mr. Alexander! Mr. Alexander, three minutes of question-answer. Please hold the recording. All right, let's do the recording. 3 minutes as prescribed by the regulations. Abdullin, Fatherland, please. Sobolen. Turn on the Soboljevo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u33	Mr. Secretary, the Fatherland faction. Look, I've analyzed the wages of Ukrainian officials, including ministers. Where wages are paid, there is a minimum, and where dividends are, there is a million, two, three, four, five. Why don't you just listen to the offer of the Fatherland faction to introduce the same tax regime for wages and dividends? Well, it's not clear that 5 percent is tax avoidance. The second question. Our proposals regarding the introduction in the full scope of the Indicative Price Creation Act are, excuse me, a transfer pricing that is an integral part of the deofshorization of you at all. We estimate it's tens of billions of dollars. Please tell me, what is the problem with who is covering offshors in Ukraine? What is the key issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u34	Turn Mr. Alexander's microphone on in the lobby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u35	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, well, I don't know, well, it's kind of hard for me to compare dividends and pay is basically different things. Our primary task is to get the government service. Not ministers, because ministers are politicians. The State Service received a well - deserved salary. And this is provided for in the Law on State Service, which you supported in this room. That's the first one. In terms of indicative prices, and in general, transport pricing. In principle, this is a priority for the Ministry of Finance, to be clear. And we're not just going to be, we've got a lot done here, but it's not yet implemented on the DFS. And that's what we're going to do, thank you for paying attention to that. That's what we're going to do, and within BEPS, that's also going to be taken into account. So it's in Minfin's work, and it's a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u36	Thank you very much. And I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Kremeny Taras Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u37	Please pass the word to Oleg Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u38	Mr. Secretary, I want to give you an offer that does not increase the cost of the state budget, but increases its income. Because I was talking to the government about introducing excise duty on car fuel methane. Because we've just created a road fund, we need extra revenue in the state budget. But instead, the government doesn't want to impose this kind of excise on fuel, on all kinds of fuel, there is this excise, and on methane gas, you don't even want to introduce minimum excise duty. This is due to the revenue of the state budget, which I believe should be directed, including the financing of the construction of affordable housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before answering, I would like to inform you that there is a Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, and the entire composition of the government. Let's welcome Vladimir Borisovich. [[Applause]] Thank you. Now I'm asking you to answer Alexander Daniluk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u40	I'll just answer about the gas excise. We're working on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u41	One last question. Yegor Sobolev is passing it on to Ostrov, and that will be the last question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u42	Mr. Secretary of Finance! The government tells us that five and a half billion are budgeted to support the APC, but only 3.7 billion of them go to agriculture support programmes, and the other money is to finance MinAPC itself. Moreover, of the 3.7 billion, 2.1 billion, this is the General Fund and 1.5 billion, this is a special confiscation fund that is known to be unvoted. Why such manipulations with agriculture? We've given you a tool that would provide adequate budgeting -- that's a minimum specific commitment to the hectare, which detinies 15-30 percent of the black land rentals. Please release this money to support the APC, to support livestock, gardening, and vegetables, and leave it to them, please. The bill is registered to us, please consider it during the budget process of preparing for the second reading. So we can just make sure that our agriculture is properly supported, not as you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u43	Mr. Alexander, please, this is the last question I ask you to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u44	Thank you. I want to stress what the government has identified among its priorities to support the agro-sector, but to say that we're not doing the right thing is wrong. Now we've also had a meeting with the representatives of the agro-sector, where we've discussed, including the recommendations on the only social contribution, we've worked it out, we've agreed on it. We're doing this as an option for an additional resource to finance the agrosector, but not just the agrosector, but where it's needed, the elements that you've been sounding, that's livestock, gardening, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u45	Thank you. Question time's up. Next statement by the head of Roman Mikolaiovich Maguty, head of the Court of Auditors, is within 5 minutes if necessary. Roman Mikolaiovich, please. No questions are provided under the Rules to the Head of the Court of Auditors. Please be 5 minutes, Roman Mikolaiovich, by five.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u46	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, are invited! The Court of Auditors, according to current legislation, carried out an expert study on the draft State Budget Act, provided the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the relevant conclusions, which were officially published on the Court of Auditors' website on October 3, this year. Overall, the 2017 State Budget project is assessed as taking risks that will depend on responding to internal and external challenges. In the calculation of the state budget project, there is a three - percent increase in real gross domestic product, which, under low purchasing capacity, reduces the credit to the economy, the unfavourable investment climate in the country, and exacerbates the outlook for the world’s raw materials markets are overly optimistic. The projected increase in government budget revenues by 17 per cent, with a 14 per cent increase in nominal gross domestic product, will depend on inflation and devaluation factors and government approval, changes to legislation. Failure to accept them or to accept them in a different way will create additional risks of not coming individual incomes in the projected range. The problem is the collection of confiscated funds and funds derived from the realisation of property confiscated, the court’s decision, corruption and corruption in the amount of 10.5 billion. In 2015 and nine months of the current year, they amounted to only 200,000 dollars. I wanted to pay attention to planning revenue from the privatization of state property. In the next year, these revenues are projected at 17 billion dollars, whereas actual arrivals in recent years have been less than 1 percent of the projected. An unfavorable investment climate that reduces demand and the price of privatization objects does not encourage the fullness of these revenues in the following year. The government government borrowing budget of 191 billion dollars will depend on many external and internal factors, including the continuation of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, the European Union, and the success of the country's declared reforms. These revenues are one and a half times the cost of paying off government debt. The result of these credits and government guarantees will be an increase in government and state-guaranteed debt of up to 2.3 trillion dollars, or 89 percent of gross domestic product, which is one and a half times the limit value of the Budget Code. As a result of this government, it is necessary to meet the requirement of the Budget Code and to develop a plan of action for the implementation of the level of government and guaranteed government debt to the limit value. Furthermore, the practice of allowing the government to make public loans is continuing beyond the scope established by the State Budget Act, which is contrary to the requirements of the Budget Code and creates conditions for an unsupervised increase in government debt. The lack of effective public debt management policies will not improve the debt sustainability of the State. The optimistic growth forecast for 2017 in the state budget creates risks for the implementation of part of the draft budget programmes, expenditure and lending. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has proposed amendments to the legislative provisions on the financial security of individual expenditure from local budgets, with the expenditure of local budgets, taking into account previous transfers to the local level, primarily at the expense of the state budget and not at the expense of local budgets. As a result, the income structure of the local budgets will change significantly and, as in recent years, most of the local budgets are planned to be generated at the expense of transfers from the state budget. This demonstrates the excessive centralization of budgetary resources at the state level and the urgency of reforming the State’s regional policy. That's why we consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u47	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u48	We consider it necessary to amend the Budget Code in order to expand the income base of the local budgets by increasing the percentages of individual taxes charged in the respective territory and by transferring the share of taxes to the local level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u49	Thank you. So, colleagues, now is the time for speeches by MP factions and groups. Please record the performance. Please. From the Radical Party, Lajsko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u50	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing the Prime Minister, and I hope that the entire government will listen carefully to the demands of the Radical Party, including Minister of Finance Daniluk. First, the Radical Party faction understands the need for a budget in a warring country. But in that option that we can't support this budget, our faction, because the conclusions given by the budget committee are not included in any of our proposals. Perhaps in the government, someone deafer we will publicly repeat them to the whole country. We demand not to touch farmers, not to touch peasants, and leave special taxes for farmers next year, because the programs you're offering, you want to take 20 billion from peasants and only 5 will come back, and because of the corruption schemes, because none of the farmers of their state support will get it. So our appeal to the Prime Minister is to leave taxes on farmers in the budget next year. Next, Mr. Prime Minister, state funding for vocational and technical education. We demand recovery from the state funding budget. Vocational and technical education institutions teach orphans, children from low-income families, children from rural families. The transfer of vocational education to finance the local budget is, in fact, the closure of these establishments of vocational education, the removal of children from working families from the possibility of learning. We demand that the budget be restored the following year of state funding for vocational schools. Next, our Bill 4998 on the indexation of pensions of pensioners whose half a million in Ukraine receive less than a thousand dollars. For this category of pensioners, we demand that a pension be set at the minimum of living and that in the next year's budget the indexation of these monetary pensions be provided. So that people don't sit around waiting for taxes in the form of utility subsidies, so that they can get a more or less suitable pension. Next, the budget next year provides almost 60 billion dollars for subsidies, instead of less than a billion dollars for energy-generating. We're asking the government to anticipate the state budget so that Ukrainian citizens, at the expense of the State Budget, can set up gas, water, heat for each apartment, so that the budget can replace boilers for the villagers because they don't have these possibilities. And last of all, we've put forward a whole series of bills that will make it possible to make the government budget real. You want our votes, support our demands.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u51	Thank you. The word is given to Mr. Solovy’s representative of the “Block of Peter Prashenko. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u52	Yury Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina and Pokowice, Peter Dustenka's Block. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the Government for the fact that, over the past seven years, the draft budget has been submitted to Parliament in due time and in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they have sufficient time to work on the budget, to make their proposals and amendments so that the government can take these amendments into account in the second reading and to introduce, in the law, the budget in the Hall, that is the first. Second, what is so important, and what has been the big mistake of the past few years? That's what we've always tried to change the tax base, the budget base, when we were preparing the budget, in the same way that we destroyed the whole principle of the budgetary process. This budget is based on an existing tax base, which is a good signal for business development, for economic stability in 2017. What is important is the macroeconomic indicators, which I think are absolutely real and which provide certain preconditions for investing in Ukraine's economy in 2017. In addition, I think that in 2017, including the government, I should pay attention to optimizing those budgetary expenditure that is extremely high, particularly in terms of subsidies and the current subsidy mechanism. Since we see the facts today when people turn to their employers to lower wages, not pay them real, to make them minimal to receive subsidies. And that's why the order of reform of this sector, I think, should be one of the priorities in 2017, and this is the basis that the budget allows for this to be done. And that's why I'm going to the conference room, I'm talking to the Ukrainian National Deputies, this draft budget, and these proposals that are taken into account by the Committee on Budgets are absolutely justified, and they have an economic basis, and I'm sure when we're redrafting the budget between first and second reading, we can form a balanced, efficient, adequate budget document for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u53	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, the leader of the Yuri Boyko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u54	Madam Chairman, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine and the National Deputies! We think that the 2017 budget is a very important tool for solving the major problem that we have today in our country after the military conflict is population poverty, people's poverty. We believe that when the budget is being considered, the government and Parliament should be guided first by the interests of the citizens of Ukraine and only then by the reaction of the European Union or the International Monetary Fund, not the other way around, as is very often the case in our reality. Having considered the draft budget presented, our faction believes that a 10 percent increase in the minimum wage and pension that is planned in this project, which is part-time over the year, in conditions where prices for all types of services and utility tariffs are rising rapidly, is a direct path towards further deterioration of people's living conditions and has nothing to do with the development and normal existence of people in the country. Our faction prepared proposals for a budget committee and for a government in which we showed real forms and real sources of additional revenue to the budget. First of all, it's coming from real, not official inflation, which is proposed in the draft budget. The second is coming from the fall of the national currency, from the devaluation of the bracelet. And we think that these extra revenue will give us an opportunity to raise the social standards that, unfortunately, are at the back of the day, and at the top of that, there's an increase in the payout for a power block in the state. And I want to remind you that in the budget project, 30 percent raise spending on a power block and only 10 percent raise spending on social pay. In addition, we believe that there are additional sources in the budget after the end of large-scale smuggling, corruption in all its forms. And these extra funds should also be aimed at social protection for the population, for the people. If our proposals made by the Opposition Block faction are accepted, we will support the draft budget. And we're counting on a dialogue with the government to be effective, transparent and ultimately convenient and just for people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u55	Thank you to the speaker. Please, from the People's Front faction, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! The most important stage of work in this session hall is the approval and review of the country's budget for the following year. I believe that the coalition that elected its representatives and delegated them to a coalition government should support the bill and the draft budget, because we should all vote in favour. Now, the entire executive branch of power, the fullness of the executive branch of power, it's in the hands of the President, the Prime Minister is also a representative of the Peter Prashenko Block and our ministers are also delegated from the People's Front. So we have to do everything we can to support the budgetary process and vote in favour today. The requirements of the People's Front are included in the budget project. This is the financing of the armed forces and national security at least 5 percent of the gross domestic product. The budget is 129 billion dollars. This is a continuation of the salary raises for military personnel and certified members of the National Police, as the Yatsenuk government has started, this is foreseen. This is reflected in the wage increase of 30 percent for teachers. The financing of capital road repairs is provided, and what was started by the government of Yatsenuk is also provided. So today we have to do everything. Show that the coalition is the only one that supports our coalition government. But I would like to add such positions to the transcript to allow for consideration and preparation for the second reading in the draft budget. In order for the Cabinet of Ministers to increase the funding of the National Police according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs' budgetary request. Secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers in the revenue of the state budget take into account the costs derived from the confiscation of assets obtained illegally as a result of corruption in accordance with court decisions. And thirdly, to provide funding for a state space program in full measure. Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like to ask you, when you develop and develop the budget for the second reading, to predict everything. And today's vote will show us what factions are willing to work for the continuation of reforms in our country, and who is doing everything to sabotage them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u57	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. Please, from the Fatherland faction, the leader of the Julia Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u58	Dear friends! There is a budgetary process in Parliament. In fact, it's a terrible demonstration of how the state government dropped almost to the mice below the plentuse. Because no one really cares. The government's bed is a symbol of the market economy. There's every "three" for your line of work and for your own. And in fact, government officials don't care what the rostrum says. While this is the nation’s main strategic document, the whole country is waiting, the budget is not the head of the budget committee. And he'll report that he doesn't even know what he's talking about! From the government, not the Prime Minister will report the budget to take responsibility for what is happening, but will report to the Minister of Finance, who for three minutes has come down from heaven to Parliament to answer questions! I want to tell you that there's a market in Parliament, a market, as you would say, which is of origin! That's why, dear friends, it's not Ukraine's budget! This is the contractor that was made before this budget was submitted. It's just a budget of total corruption, because understanding that all our heads of state, including the President, the Minister of Finance, the head of the National Bank, are actually not marked by any income stamps from offshores. This is a budget for flagrant corruption, because at the time that 15 percent of pension workers' income is saved, they're 29 billion people are paying off VAT to the agrarian mafia who don't pay that VAT, and you know that. And you smile when 29 billion dollars pour into the private accounts of agrarian holding companies that, including the government, manage it. I want to tell you that while we're all talking about poverty, this is the extreme budget of poverty, because this is the first budget in the country's history, which is even the minimum subsistence minimum, which is zero, only 47 percent and 50 percent reflected in the minimum wage. What are you doing with the country?? I also want to tell you that the agrarian complex at a time when the agrarian holdings are taking the entire budget, the last tax benefits are being removed from the agrarians. Science is shattered! There's nothing left for science! Policeman's salary is 19,000. I won't talk about the people's deputies. You'll see for yourself this revelation. But the teachers are 2-3 thousand dollars. It's a police state budget. There's a tariff policy set up here today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u59	Another 30 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u60	Today, the price of gas has increased to 8,000 dollars. When you're drunk, Mr. Groissman, and everyone around him! I can tell you that this budget can't just be accepted, it has to be put in a name for this budget. And if any government had made such a budget, it wouldn't have lasted an hour. He needs to be rejected, and Groissman needs to be shown at the door. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u61	Please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u62	Dear friends, our comments and performances will be, as always, not emotional, but more on the subject. So we're interested in a few specific things. I'd like to bring to our attention the current secretary of profile who reports the budget, and I'd like to thank you. Now that we understand that we are deciding on a complex budget, we need to adopt a complex budget in terms of war, in terms of the difficult financial situation of the country and the Ukrainian economy, we think that, thinking about today, we have no right not to think about tomorrow. And in solving today's issues, we can't vote for a budget in which so little attention is given to education. As Mandella said, "Today's investment in education is tomorrow's weapon for our country to protect its economic independence." And I'll tell you that in all of the budgets that we've seen before, we've never seen a budget that just erases whole blocks of education. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to funding institutions like the Small Academy of Sciences, because we have collected over 100 signatures and all the heads of factions have signed up to pay attention to the financing of the Small Academy of Sciences. The second question. All the representatives of our group are major MPs who represent the county and are acceptable to everyone to be killed with a request to rehabilitate socio-economic targets. Questions. Is there money in this budget to solve infrastructure issues in the districts and will they be reviewed? And the third is if the question and the wish is that, as you've started the budget adoption process well, it's the first time we've made it right so that we can also get to the procedure and get to it. Thank you and wish you success.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u63	Thank you. Please, Self-Help faction, Victoria Vojcitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u64	First of all, we would like to thank Mr. Groisman's government for the fact that we have actually an unprecedented situation when the budget was actually put in place in time. It's socially oriented, but it leaves in fact a completely disgruntled norm on taxation of working pensioners, which is totally unacceptable. We have to learn to live in the real world and actually pragmatically evaluate our own capacities, and the opportunities are made out of income, we have to spend as much as we actually do, and not distribute income to cover the unwarranted expenditures of the budget. We find it unacceptable to budget the country with a fairly optimistic GDP forecast, an GDP growth of 3 percent. We think it should be based on a more conservative calculation of one and a half percent, which, among other things, was recorded in the estimates and projections of the Ministry of Economics. We're talking to you about the 27 billion that we're supposed to raise from privatization and special confiscation. Yeah, we think if, really, and when the state gets the money from privatization and special confiscation, we have to send it to the Budget Fund and use it to develop Ukrainian production. What do we suggest, what additional sources of budget filling? We have to bring the minimum wage closer to two and a half thousand dollars -- that'll allow us to get the wages out of the shadows and get at least 11 billion dollars into the budget. We consider it mandatory to introduce cashiers into import -- that will reduce customs abuse and corruption and add tens of billions of dollars to the budget. We also consider it necessary to introduce a minimum social tax on a hectare and return a specific tax regime to the village, which would be an additional four and a half billion dollars for the budget. With regard to budget expenditure. The key principle of the formation of government budgets should be the principle of optimizing the functions of organizational structure and implementing electronic governance, which will reduce the cost of maintaining authorities and minimize bureaucracy and corruption. Even so, we see an average increase in expenditure of 15-20 percent, that's absolutely unacceptable, this waste needs to be done. We see three key black holes in the budget. First, it's funding the Pension Fund. We're still being offered to vote for a cat in a bag, so you know, the Ministry of Social Policy has not been able to provide the funding of the Pension Fund and the Social Insurance Fund. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance noted in its report that only for the verification of so-called "dead souls" can the budget save about 25 billion dollars. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u65	30 seconds. Please finish one more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u66	The second black hole is the Ministry of Defense. Last year we allocated 55 billion to the security and defence sector, and in 2017 we're already offered 66 billion. I have a question for all my colleagues in this room. Which one of you knows where the money was spent in 2016? What was specifically purchased, and what, above all, happened to the soldiers? We have no answer to these questions. Now they're telling us, give us another 66 billion, of which 51 will go to the army. What is the Ministry planning to buy these funds, where will they go? Parliament does not have access to this information and therefore does not have the right to vote in favour. And the last black hole, but at least it's not that big, in fact, 1 billion dollars, but it's shameful. We have not yet seen the corrosive of the Supreme Council, which is totally unacceptable. And the self-help faction will therefore insist on transparency and reality in budgeting, and invite the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u67	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u68	But he invites the government to work constructively and work together to prepare for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. And we're done talking about factions and groups. The last one has Anton Yatzenko's word from Rebirth, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, the MP's Rebirth Party has worked very hard on this document and we want to say that there are a lot of questions about this document called Project Budget. First of all, there are very big threats to local budgets. Thus is the uneven distribution of an additional grant for the maintenance of educational and health facilities. The budgets of cities of regional importance, Kiev has no financial resources. At the same time, 30 state institutions and sanitariums are transferred to district administrations. Next: Own-account funding. Pedagogical staff rely on 25 percent of the staff: schools, gardens of other establishments. Next: Local budgets rely on the financing of trade and technology. So already this year there were many regions on their knees, in fact, because of this. Here is the problem, which is also based on local budgets, and about 40 percent of the local budget gap today will be from the total amount of funding for all of these purposes. And you can count a lot of the shortcomings of this document, and you've talked about VAT here and here, which could actually be a lot of abuse and a lot of other things. So in order to start a simple budget process, we're going to be voting, but we insist on looking at this budget and taking into account all the remarks made by the MP group "The Refreshment Party" and also starting work on the Tax Code at last, on changes to enable the local and state budget to be filled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u71	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, it is important that we have or not the first opportunity to discuss the procedure for adopting the budget under the Rules in a timely manner. And now, according to the Rules of Procedure, please register the deputies who wish to participate in the first reading of the draft budget for 2017. Coming through. Please, the People's Deputies of Aresonkov, from the Peter Prashenko Block, are invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u72	Dear Prime Minister! Dear government! Dear Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! Of course, it's an extremely important period that now includes the Supreme Council. And they're taking part in preparations for the next year's draft budget, including the territorial communities. We are now being approached by a large number of citizens who live in the territories and in our constituencies, representatives of public organizations. So this is going to be a very broad, transparent process of discussion. Unfortunately today, we certainly have a very large number of questions to ask the government. And first of all, we're raising today the issue of providing for those social programs that have been in the past few years, they've only been done in part, and that are today raising big questions for our citizens. I would like to focus on a few aspects, such as the issues that concern citizens today in District 64, which I represent in our northern parts of Ukraine is the issue of safeguarding the social rights and guarantees of citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl AES accident. If we look at the figures in this budget as a whole, compared to previous years, we can say that there is a decrease in attention to those citizens who have given their lives in their own time so that we can work today. It's about liquidating citizens who are sick as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. And I'll give you just one example: last year's health ministry budget for cancer treatment and high-value drugs for these operations was a 60 million dollar program. It was inconceivable, but I point out that the budget for 2017 does not have that number in general. In general, if you look at it again, I'm going to say that the social protection costs of the citizens affected by the AES are not taken into account either for indexation or for pensions or for material assistance for treatment or for healing. And you can count a lot more questions. Today, we have a huge number of questions about the financing of budget programmes to support local self-government bodies, the newly created territorial communities, the issue of municipal services that today rely on local budgets, a number of issues that cause us great concern. So I'm calling on the government today, all the profiling committees to take a closer look at the numbers that are being tested.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. Please make the most of it. Mr. Demczak from the Peter Dust Block. Out of the way. () [[B in m in s a l in]] From the rostrum, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u74	Good afternoon! Dear friends, well, first of all, I'd like to pay attention to the fact that we "started with a wagon and left the horses." We haven't even included two bills that have a major impact on the adoption of the budget -- 5044, changes to the Tax Code, and what's most important is 5131, changes to the Budget Code. As far as the changes in local budgets are concerned, I would like to stress this. We're changing our approach to financing the two biggest areas -- education and medicine. And there is a difference: If we finance only pedagogical workers in education, in health care we transfer only the payment of utilities. I think this should be the same thing as a minimum. Because what do librarians do, what do Methodists, other categories do? Next question. I want to say that in our time, we took 15 percent of the PDF from local budgets and gave them two subsidies -- education and medicine. If we're sending utilities back today, well, we should, at least, again because of the norms, at least, 5 percent of the PDF for cities and 10 percent of the PDF for district budgets, which are the most vulnerable today, because we've given them a centralised return. And 14.9 billion, which we put on a district level and a district level, well, at least, distribute by formula. Because everyone understands that neither the united communities see themselves there. And how do we continue to decentralize? The next question is the benefits, we're trying again, if we don't have the political will to settle something on the benefits, well, we can't record the benefits provided by the legislation, put it in place. Well. Please tell me, what does the local budget have to do with internal affairs veterans, tax police veterans, state fire department veterans, state criminal veterans? Well, we can't go down any more: the benefits are a professional sign of hanging on local budgets. And last but not least, I would like to point out that 14.9 billion in order for decentralization to move, well, we need to get back to the formula. Because today the subsidy was paid, the distribution was made on the payroll fund. The one who worked in the filling of the optimisation classes today found himself in a losing situation rather than the one who did nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Radical Party, Chizmar gives the word to his colleague, Galasjuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina, dear fellow national MPs! The country's budget should provide social protection for the population and be a tool for economic growth, it's a continuation of philosophy and the content of government economic policy, but we still don't see this economic policy. Oleg Lášk and I, a faction of the Radical Party, have proposed to the President, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister an anti-crisis plan for Ukraine's economy, which contains a comprehensive plan of action that will allow Ukraine to move from food to development and to a real increase in the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. We have proposed 15 legislative initiatives that we insist on to bring about a qualitative change in the economic policy of the government, to provide a normal basis for a budget that will serve the economic development of the country. I would like to point out that, despite the fact that several of our priority legislative initiatives have been supported by Parliament, most of them need immediate consideration. These include social, economic, and energy initiatives. I'll name just a few of them. This is a draft of Law 4998: on the protection of constitutional rights, on the provision of the minimum needs of citizens -- that today 500,000 Ukrainians -- people with disabilities II, II, III groups, women who have retired for a period of time, retirees, so that they have social assistance today at least at the minimum of living. Today it's not there, they have less than a thousand bracelets. Show us who today can live on less than a thousand dollars. We have to fix this. We have to supplement the budget today at the expense of new tools. And the Radical Party faction stands for them from day one in Parliament. These are investment magnets, like industrial parks. It's a system of lending to a Ukrainian producer, such as an export credit agency. These are mechanisms to reduce the energy consumption of the country, such as energy service contracts. That's what will change the fate of our country, and that's what can't be delayed for tomorrow. This is a series of laws aimed at banning the privatisation of Turboatu, other strategic enterprises. It's a package of monetary liberalisation laws to remove the artificial regulation of the National Bank that they're smothering Ukrainian producers today. And there's a bunch of bills. Moreover, today's Radical Party faction for the support of colleagues from other factions and groups is initiating changes to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the National Bank's mandate to ensure that the Ukrainian National Bank is responsible not only for the stability of the currency, but, as in the United States, Malaysia, Australia, to contribute to the economic growth of the country, to ensure the low cost of long-term loans, and to ensure employment of the population, because that is the main goal of the state's work, the welfare of citizens and the employment of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Victor. Please, from Self-Help, the faction representative, Paul Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u78	Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u79	She's giving Mrs. Babak the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u80	The situation with this budget is very strange. We're hearing about where we're going, what the direction of reform, the energy reform seems to be our acquisition. But let's look at this budget. What do we see? The increase in subsidies means that tariffs continue to increase. 50 billion. We hear that the new subsidy figure is going to be 60 billion dollars. At the same time, please look at the energy efficiency we're talking about at every step, only 800 million dollars goes to the energy efficiency fund, 800 million dollars, that's equal to this year's funding. The energy efficiency fund has not yet been created. It will be created in time after we have passed the law with you. After he starts to function as an institution. After it's done with the lending mechanisms. And all this time, no Ukrainian family will be able to use a warm loan. Your Honor, this is absolute absurdity and nonsense. We're saying that such a law and such a budget can't be adopted when there's a distortion of public policy. Next. So we're talking about what needs to be increased, essentially, funding for energy efficiency programs, warm loans for people. The Fund, the State Regional Development Fund, 8 billion, this year was 3 billion. We see what's happening, we're transferring the functions to the local level of municipal spending, to schools, to gardens, to hospitals. At the same time, we don't see the state supporting communities from the point of view of investing in the energy efficiency of the same schools, gardens and hospitals. So we demand that the Regional Development Fund be focused solely on reducing energy consumption in educational institutions, in medical institutions, in culture. Because otherwise, local self - government will not be able to cope with the public policy that we hear about every day. Next. That's what we talked about today. But we'll do it again. The Attorney General's Office increases the budget by one and a half billion dollars. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has increased its spending by one billion dollars! It's only a billion-dollar machine. Zero for emergency medical care. This is ridiculous! This is a complete distortion of the situation and the emphasis of public policy. Ladies and gentlemen! We think we have to work out this budget first and only then talk about what we're really doing in the budget what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u81	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev gives his colleague the word Vadim Ichchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u82	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! You know, I still remember when Minister Pinzenik was making a central budget, taking into account the local budgets. I remember Timoshenko’s government making 11,000 budgets! I remember the first reading of the Supreme Council! I remember the Supreme Council’s second reading! And then President Yushchenko made a vow. What decentralization are we talking about, colleagues? All the costs of education and medicine are passed on to the local level! 30 medical facilities are being transferred to the local level! There's a toll on the transporters! Thus, the state makes it completely impossible to implement its social obligations! Colleagues, the problem with vocational and technical education. The difference in tariffs. And you call that decentralization?Oh, my God! In addition, local budgets need 46.6 billion! With each and every one of you saying that they've grown by 21 billion. Where else to go? How can we live today for communities that are to rebuild infrastructure, roads to united communities? They have to rebuild everything else in order to ensure normal functioning of both the HKG and the HVC, and all other vital things. Colleagues, what's going on with the agrarian sector? 710 billion dollars in budget revenue. They're talking about 1 percent, but 5.5 billion is not at all 1 percent. Of these 5.5 billion is the financing of institutions, MinAPK, State of service and other institutions, Dergeokadastra. Indeed, 1.4 is 2 percent for the sector, which gives 30 percent of GDP. $14 billion in foreign exchange. It's harassment! Twenty-four billion are actually taken from a special tax regime. And only 2 percent is 1.4 billion in return. What's going on with the unions? Colleagues, these are the letters from all the unions, here are 15 of them for now. But they all talk about increasing the cost of living at a minimum. They're all saying that the "Paternal Fatherhood" proposals we made on the income side coincide with their visions on both the offshore and the dividends. Colleagues, please, don't ruin this country. Let's work on and constructively approach budgeting 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion by the deputies is over. The name Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik was mentioned, and he insists on a replica. One minute, please. And then the speech is concluded by the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I will not talk about the budget, especially since we are not considering the Budget Act in the first reading in the traditional sense. We are considering with you the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budgets and will vote on them. I'd like to draw attention to this particular document. I very much ask my colleagues to read 3 and 4 of the regulation and remove them from the decision, including the appendix. I don't want to use emotional words. I don't even want to talk about the essence of these decisions. But if we have a sense of at least self-preservation, I succinctly ask you to remove those standards from the decision. We have no right to vote on paragraph 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have two concluding words under the Rules from the Committee on Budgets and the Government. And I invite the head of the Committee on Budgets, Andrew Pavelek, to take the floor. Pavelko will be speaking, head of the Committee on Budgets. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u86	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! To sum up today's consideration in the first reading of the state budget bill for 2017, for the first time in the last few years, such a process takes place at the same time as the special procedure established by the Supreme Council Rules. During the discussion of the bill, a constructive discussion took place on the most pressing issues that need to be addressed in the budget. I would like to support, as a whole, the draft regulation proposed by the Committee of Budgets at 5000-P with today's clarifications. The adoption of such a decree is considered to be the adoption of the National Budget Bill for 2017 in the first reading. The government has yet to finalize the bill within two weeks according to budgetary conclusions and submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u87	Thank you. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, is invited from the government to the closing statement. May I have your attention, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u88	Good evening, dear fellow members of the National Deputies, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, presidencies. Well, first of all, I want to thank you for the critical speeches that were made at the address of the document that was prepared by the government. I think that in many of the different factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, there were things that have the right to life that have to be worked out and on which consolidated decisions have to be made. I want to draw your attention to one point: this is not the budget of 2017 Groisman, this is the budget of our great European state. A country that, sadly, is not a year old, and it is certainly not a decade old in a state of stagnation. Because unfortunately, when it was necessary to reform, when it was necessary to build systems that would allow people to get a normal pension, a normal salary, to create normal conditions for investing in the economy. We've had some crazy downturns. As a result, we have received enormous challenges in terms of temporary loss of control over part of our territory. The annexation of our Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the loss of traditional markets and many other things. And in fact, the country wasn't ready because we were a raw addition to our eastern, until recently, neighbor, and today the enemy. You know, I've heard a lot of critical words and I've been going through the last 10 years. Unfortunately, I can't think of anything in the last 10 years to mention quality reforms and changes, timely budgets, normal dialogue and discussions, decentralization of changes that enabled communities to survive, and more so, to develop. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that only twice in the last 10 years has the Ukrainian budget been implemented in a timely manner. It was 2006 and the Prime Minister was Yuri Yehanurov, and 2012. All the other budgets were written on too much regret, very haste, and sometimes on their knees, even when there was no absolute annexation, absolute challenges, loss of our economic power. You can think of the 2008 crisis, the 9th. As our country has been skillfully brought into great suffering by the Ukrainian people, suffering, including economic and social losses. Today you and I have a chance, this chance is that we today have to develop the national economy and the benefits that the national economy produces to invest on a permanent basis in the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. And the government is completely honest when we put in a perfectly good and balanced budget in time. And if we can debate today whether we can make a better budget. Probably, yes, but this should be our joint work with you, where we will clearly define further priorities and approach the final vote by December 1st with a more qualitative document. But what I want to stress is that this budget is absolutely real and it provides for a number of very important priorities. First. We provide security and defence funding, which allows us to support our Ukrainian army at such a difficult time. And when I hear from the MPs that there are issues that have to do with increasing control over the use of these resources, I'm both hands behind. I urge you to make this control effective, honest and open together. We're completely saving the financial decentralization system. I don't want to go back to some of the speeches from this rostrum, but I can tell you, dear friends, not in 2006, not in 2007, not in 2008, not in 2009, not in 2010, not in 2013 -- there was no decentralization in our country. Every Prime Minister, every President has tried, except Yushchenk, to usurp power. And it was so, absolutely unprecedented, without any shame, and it could be mentioned by anyone -- anyone who had a bearing on local self-government. Instead, today we have a quality system of self-government. And I want to inform you that the local budgets have only increased by 34 billion dollars in the last year. Next. We're saving a massive road reform and we're going to invest twice as much in building Ukrainian roads. And in energy efficiency, and it's not exactly true that 800 million, we're going to be able to form an energy efficiency fund from 3.5 billion to 4 billion dollars, and separately we have $2 billion of a variety of energy efficiency programs that are now being used or used, which is another 50 billion. So using the State Regional Development Fund, this resource could be up to 60 billion. In particular, we raise the salary of a Ukrainian teacher by 30 percent and these are the first steps. We're putting an increase in social standards by 10 percent compared to a 10 percent increase from December 1st to December 1st. We're going to get as close as possible to providing Ukrainian citizens with drugs. We increase wages by 20 percent for our doctors. And I have a good message that this is just the beginning. And today, we are discussing issues, conclusions and recommendations when the Ukrainian Parliament is tasking the government, identifying what the Ukrainian Parliament considers necessary, processing, conducting further consultations and finalizing the budget, taking into account your recommendations, those that coincide with income and expenditure. I want to emphasize once again that our Ukrainian budget is equal to 960 billion. But I would also like to point out that beyond that amount, some MPs, without any evaluation and calculations, have made yet additional proposals for 906 billion dollars, such money in our budget, unfortunately, there is not. We've all calculated and, I want to emphasize that it's very important that the budgetary process that we've started, we have a perfectly logical discussion in order to make a consolidated decision about our country's development in 2017. So my proposal is next, please consider, give the government a job, we'll work it out in time, and we'll go to the final vote. And I would like to say separately the topic that I was raised today at the meeting, I had a meeting with the heads of the agrarian committee, the Peter Poshenko Block, the People's Front, raised this issue by the Radical Party, leader Oleg Valeriyovich spoke out of the rostrum and said that, the groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, and self-help from Victoria Vojcitsky said that today from the rostrum. Support for the agricultural sector, and you're absolutely right in that we have to pay special attention to the development of the national economy. We have to do everything to make ours competitive. Our agricultural production was competitive. And we agreed with factions and committees that the resource to support the agrarian sector would be equal to ten billion dollars. So increasing twice that will give us an opportunity to support the Ukrainian agricultural producer. And most of all, I want us to stop being a raw asset to other countries' economies. It's very important that we create a national product that will be competitive and that will provide Ukrainians with decent jobs -- it's all a philosophy of this budget. I understand how difficult it is for Ukrainian citizens today, and I understand how desperate there is to see that the authorities have probably not treated themselves completely in recent decades with respect for people. I think people get tired of the sometimes, the lie that floats from such a high rostrum when they are promised to make them happy without their participation. I understand that there are a lot of disappointments, but I understand, and another thing we have today is the growth rate of normal economic growth, and if you and I are going to act as the only team that wants to invest every bracelet, dollar and euro in the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. I want to assure you that in a few years we will have both a high-quality salary and a high-quality pension and quality agricultural product. We will support all sectors of the economy, our sectors, which should be the engine of development. It takes one thing to stop fighting, to turn the page, to stay with everyone who has led the country to such a state of poverty to remain in the past, and to emphasize, to turn this page. Forgetting the mistakes that have been made, including in recent decades, in addition to the mistakes that have been made from 2010 to 2013. To make decisions, to start developing a country, and to do everything in order to be free and open to the citizens of Ukraine. This is our assignment with you. And what you're doing here is you're shaving saliva out of this rooster and poison trying to strangle someone here, you better look in the mirror, you better look at the door, and you should probably think about one thing that you're not in principle very nice, but Ukrainian past. And we have to build a Ukrainian future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. I ask my fellow MPs to enter the Hall, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Colleagues, I would like to stress one thing while the deputies enter the hall, we have come out this year on the whole procedure envisaged by the Budget Rules, and we are now voting on proposals not for the Cabinet of Ministers, we are voting on proposals for Parliament, the Committee of Parliament's budget to the Cabinet of Ministers. So it's very important to understand, this is the Supreme Council's proposals for the budget of the Cabinet of Ministers to be taken into account. It's Parliament's vote, it's Parliament's authority and duty, because if we don't make our proposals, we're actually going to leave Parliament out of decision-making. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. This is a vote, this is support for Parliament and support for proposals by the budget committee, which are balanced, which are verified by all the members of the budget committee that represent all the factions that are in Parliament. We vote in favour of Parliament's proposal, for a budget committee to the government, a colleague, this is a vote. Everyone's in position, colleagues, can I put it to a vote? I am voting in accordance with Article 157 of the Supreme Council Rules, prepared by the Committee on Budget Affairs, draft regulation No. 5000 on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2017 for adoption as a basis. Please vote, please support the budget of the warring country. Vote please, colleagues. Please. [[17:47:03]] For 245 Decision taken, colleagues. [[Applause]] Colleagues, may I have your attention? [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention, colleagues. I have requirements for both the head of the budget committee and the government as a whole. Colleagues, I'd like to point out to you that I'm proposing -- colleagues, attention! – that we are the ones that are being urged. Colleagues, come on, if the hall supports the ad hoc procedure, if the hall supports the special procedure, then I'll put in general, colleagues. I ask who supports the ad hoc proposal, please vote. Anyone who supports the ad hoc procedure, please vote. Who supports a special procedure. Please vote. [[17:48:14]] For-164 There's no support in this room, colleagues. Now look, colleagues. Attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention, no noise! Calm down, fellows, this will make our work more productive. My colleagues, according to the Rules, have me give the floor to those who insist on their amendments. But we can't have any longer than 18.15, because we didn't vote for the extension of the session. Within half an hour, I will give my word to those who insist on it. I'm the only one asking you, colleagues, for responsibility. Because those who propose amendments should call them financial justifications. Now, by raising my hands, I'm going to pro ratalystly give my word to those who are demanding their amendment, colleagues. It's proportional to the room. Do you have a deal? Let's move on to fast-acting. Raise your hands, please. I'll be in line from there first. Korczynska is one minute, then Lewchenko, then Royal, and so we'll go. Please, Corchinska, one minute. Call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u90	Yeah. Good afternoon! Amendment 415 is to increase the cost by 31 million 129 thousand to create the country's only centre for ATO veterans with spinal injuries. There's no such center, it's based on the Riven sanatorium of war veterans. We're demanding the establishment of this center, or the guys are looking for 100,000 dollars a month for treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u91	Thank you. The amendment, written in part, is taken into account, but Mrs. Oksana insists that the whole amendment be adopted. Whoever supports Amendment 415, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. The committee partly counted it. Please vote. [[17:50:16]] For 169 It's not a decision, colleagues. Let's move on to the next amendment. Please, who was next? Lechenko, but please, one, two corrections. Please, please announce.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u92	Mr. Chairman, taking into account what I'm proposing to all of my own. Almost all of your amendments unite in one block of voting, please give me two minutes, please. Two minutes, please, for the show. You know, there's been a lot of talk here about people's deputies making unbalanced amendments, so I'd like to report it right now, because completely balanced amendments have been made by the people's deputies of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We've made dozens of amendments that I'm about to present, which are exactly related to the redistribution of the expenditure section, exclusively the expenditure section, without any increase in the income part, and because it's not possible to increase it in the budget. And we're proposing to take a completely unjustified increase, what's being offered to the executive authorities, to the various ministries, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs -- 5 billion, to the Supreme Court, to the Henprosecutor's Office, and so on, and to distribute these expenses to the Ukrainian Armed Forces -- 10 billion dollars, to an education grant -- 9 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u93	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u94	The medical subsidy is 7 and a half billion dollars. These are completely balanced amendments, so we're proposing to take a completely unjustified withdrawal from executive power, transfer to social needs, and to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Because this is where the Prime Minister was sitting, and he was lying about that it's like 5 percent in defense, and in fact, it's about 2 1/2 percent in defense, and the rest about the repressive apparatus, about the police, about the air force that you're protecting from the Ukrainian people. I demand that our amendments be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u95	Give me the repair number. Turn on the microphone. Give me the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u96	For the stenographer. I propose to put to the vote all the amendments made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u97	Mr. Yuri, call the numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u98	Andrew, these are tens, because to save time, listen to what I say. For the transcript: all amendments made by Levchenk Yuri concerning the expenditure portion of the budget. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote: whoever supports all the amendments made by Yuri Lewchenk, please vote. Please. [[17:53:04]] For-89 89. The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'm very clear on the question: What are the amendments? The MP says everybody. That's how I vote. Colleagues, pay attention! I want to emphasize, I'm asked by the MPs: at 6:15 a.m., there'll be a vote, at 6:15 p.m. I'm going to the hall now. The next one was Royal. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Unit has submitted more than a hundred amendments to the budget committee, and we have insisted on the main. In this budget you provide 455 million for Eurovision, 442 million for political parties. You provide 144 million more to finance the Cabinet of Ministers. But at the same time, you offer to raise social standards in just five months and index them by only 10 percent. We therefore insist that pensions and salaries be indexed. To be provided today, through subsidies to local budgets, hospitals and schools. The security of the country is primarily human security. And I insist that all the amendments to the Opposition Unit be considered in the Hall and voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u101	Thank you very much. Only you, please call it an amendment when you speak, if you don't call it, I don't put anything to the vote. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Calling the amendments, please, Julia Volodymyrna. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u102	The Fatherland Party is asking us to consider our amendment to cancel 18 percent of pension taxes for working pensioners. And our second amendment, which we ask to put to the vote, is to return to the tax system of small agrarian enterprises that worked until 2016. Two amendments please be made. First. 18 percent of the retirement tax for working pensioners is separate. And the second. Return to the tax system of agricultural small enterprises that existed before 2016.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u103	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to call the amendment numbers. No, you don't. Whoever supports Julia Timoshenko's proposals please vote. Please vote. [[17:56:01]] For 155 155 for. The decision is not made. Oleg Lazko. I'll be right there, colleagues. I'll be right there. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u104	Oleg Lazko. The Radical Party faction insists that we restore state funding to vocational and technical education institutions in the 2017 budget. I ask you to put this proposal to the vote, Mr. Head. Here's our request. Restoring taxes on farmers, farmers, farmers, farmers, and farmers next year will receive VAT in their own way. I'm saying that the introduction of so-called grants, these are corruption schemes, they get oligarches, but they don't get farmers, they don't get family farms, they don't get one person. So there are two requirements. First. Put to the vote the restoration of state funding for vocational and technical education institutions. The other one. Restoration of specific taxation for the farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u105	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Borisovich will answer, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u106	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Dear Oleg Valeriyovich! I would like to emphasize that the financing of vocational and technical education will be included in the state budget, in the state budget project for 2017, in the amount of $1 billion,600 million. In the state budget, it's the right one. Then I'd like to support you. This is all included in the proposals. It's counted. Next position. As far as the agrarian sector is concerned. During the meeting, we discussed this issue with you about twice as much as 10 billion targeted support for small farms and agrarian farms. And I fully support this as Prime Minister. I think we need to find the right mechanism for implementing this issue. And I insist whether I propose, let's now support the conclusions and recommendations of the budget committee. Until the second reading of the budget, or the final settlement, we will have a consultation with you by December 1. To find the best way to bring every $10 billion bracelet to small farms without corruption, without any problems. There are different options. A group of committees worked and today they have two basics. And I would ask your understanding on this issue, as would a colleague of national MPs from different factions and groups. I'm addressing the self-help faction of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, colleagues, back up. I believe that in many of the positions that you've been talking about today, they are either already included in the draft budget, or they can be discussed in order for us to go to the finalization of the law, to vote on the State Budget Act. And once again, what you're doing today, we're going to do it, and we're going to go straight through. One more thing. We have 960 billion dollars of that budget that we have to pay for. in the life of the country next year. We don't have a trillion, we don't have any more money. That's exactly what we're getting out of. So a rational, effective use is our priority, and we're going to do it with you. Thank you. Please have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u107	Thank you. Now, colleagues, I want to stress one thing, because not everyone understands. The Self-Help faction, we're not voting on the budget today, we're voting on the budget committee's draft regulation -- calling on the government to take our proposals into account for budget formation. According to the Rules, we go according to the law: the basis, the proposals from the factions, and then in general. It's all happening in one day. We're going the right way, strictly according to the Rules, colleagues. At 18:15 there will be a general vote, fellows. It's 6:15. I'm trying to give justice to everyone. I want to point out that before that was from Natalia's Royal Proposal, it requires a vote, and I'm going to put it there. All proposals of the Opposition Block are for a vote. Who supports the proposals of the Opposition Block, please vote, please support. Please, who supports the proposals of the Opposition Block, please vote. [[18:00:28]] For-60 The decision is not made. I'll give it to The factions first. Now, Krivenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, a very important amendment, I very much ask you all to gather together, this is true of the Paralympics. Regrettably, during the speech and the previous vote, it was not heard that with the correction that Krivenko made. This is the request of all the Paralympics. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević is now in the towers of the Supreme Council, there are many disabled people, including our medalists. Please insert the item in the following line: "including the financial provision for the establishment of West Rehabilitation Centre facilities and the design of the All-Ukrainian Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation Sports Centre of the National Committee on Disabled Persons Sports of Ukraine in the amount of 30 million dollars under the special budget fund in development expenditure." That was the norm. It was an offer from our social committee, there were 15 million. We agreed with Minfin that because it doesn't increase costs, it's a redistribution under the Social Guarantee Fund. And the head of the fund also wrote a letter to our committee supporting this standard. I have a huge request, this norm, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u109	Have respect for other deputies. Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! You're going to comment on this proposal because it says, Krivenko, what's agreed with you? Does anyone comment from the government or not? Who was she in agreement with? Please. I ask you very much, you will agree with the government if the government supports this, because if I put it to the vote, it will fail again now. We're going. I'll be back later. Okay. One more. Whom will I give Yvchenko or. Who? Please, Krulko Ivan, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u110	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, if we're not a budget to support science and education, we'll be funding prisons next year. Therefore, the proposal for the Fatherland Faction to amend: Number 730 is the National Academy of Sciences, 740, National Academy of Legal Sciences, 745, National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, 756, National Academy of Medical Sciences 774, National Academy of Arts. Let's vote on the minimum costs. They won't be able to work. We do not have any achievements that are serious in science. Let's finance Ukrainian science. So I propose to put to the vote the amendments I have mentioned and ask for the support of the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u111	Thank you. I'm voting for an amendment from Fatherland 730, 740, 745, 756, 774. It's one block, they're identical. Anyone who supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[18:03:36]] For-173 173-for. The decision is not taken. Next Neda, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u112	Your Honor, I have only, well, a lot of amendments, but I insist on only two. I'm asking everyone to focus on both the Opposition Block and Self-Help and the Radical Party and the Fatherland and especially the People's Front and the BPP. Please take a look at Doñecina and thousands of people live like bums. Vladimir Borisovich, please excuse me, thousands of people live like bums, two repairs. The first amendment is: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a month, develop a system of compensation for damage caused by the destruction, destruction, or damage to the private housing of those who live in the household. This is the first amendment. She's got 156. And the second amendment. To provide a separate budget programme with an expenditure of 300 million dollars to address these issues. for the demolition of housing. Please vote on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, if you please. I'd like to warn us all about one idea or what we're doing right now. We have suggestions that may be taken into account, but we are better off talking today about those who have sources of coming. What you're saying right now is plus, and that means there's got to be a minus, and there's no source. And I'm very grateful to the profiling budget committee for having done a serious job balancing the budget. I can emphasize once again that you and I will be preparing this budget together for final adoption, and now you are voting only on the Decision on Conclusions and Recommendations. And we're going to take these conclusions and recommendations and we're going to see what's balanced and we're going to check these calculations. In particular, if we want to take all the conclusions and recommendations and even those that are unbalanced in the budget, we're all going to analyze them to understand what the proposals were. But there are, of course, proposals that have absolutely nothing to do with reality, and then we go to second reading. If we're starting to take these recommendations into account now, we're not balancing the budget, and here's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u114	Sir, Oleg, do you insist on voting and if you insist, rephrase your offer. Please, Neda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u115	One offer. One proposal and it doesn't need the funds at all: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a month, develop a system of compensation for damage to persons, destroyed, or damaged private housing, private livestock, or private households that have been damaged and destroyed during an anti-terror operation" is all. Develop this order, and then you'll find or find together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u116	Thank you. I'm voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u117	In fact, such a vote is immediately foreshadowed by its funding. So it's an absolutely resourceful article, you have to work with it in numbers and then responsiblely say what's done and what's not done. I'll thank you. We'll work with you on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u118	Thank you. The government has been working on the work. Then Musai, then Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like only to pay attention to the two amendments I have made, and they have been rejected by the Committee on Budgets, that is 289 amendments and 436 amendments, and I must vote them. The 436 amendment is 6 million dollars in total to prevent the destruction of Ukraine's unique National Medical Museum, which is practically destroyed, and the medical science library, the only such unique library in Ukraine, there is no money to pay. The source of the coming is our bill from our People's Control Group, which introduces a sectoral minimum wage. Please, government, we've given you a hint as to how 4-5 billion dollars extra from a sector minimum wage. So I ask you to put to the vote the mandatory cost of coal production 289 amendments, which are fully in line with the coalition agreement, absolutely. The only thing we do every year is change our budget and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u120	Thank you. The thought is clear. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 289 MP Musia. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[18:08:33]] For-138 The decision is not made. Colleagues, Bondar, one minute. The microphone is on, Mr. Michael. All you have to do is talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u121	Right, thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, dear colleagues, I will ask you to support 285 amendments -- this is just before the state investment project for the technical refurbishment of the "Rebirth" mine has been implemented with a total of 142 million. And yet, I will be Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! Unfortunately, I'm going to ask, after all, for the only mine that's built in Ukraine, it's 10 Novovolinskys to increase its funding and upgrade it. Thank you. And I'm going to ask you to vote and support 285.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u122	Thank you, colleagues. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 285th National Deputy Bondar, who supports this amendment, please vote. [[18:10:01]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Fish. I'm sorry. Neda insists on putting his proposal to the vote. I'm putting to the vote a proposal from Nedawa, which he sounded under the transcript during the speech. Anyone who supports the amendment of the Nestava People's Deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[18:10:35]] For-182 It's not a decision, colleagues. So what are we with? My colleagues, I still have five minutes left after the recording, Sissyenko, Rybak, Jarinich. This will be settled. Yvchenka, one minute. Julia Volodymyrna, we can't give a few performances. Colleagues, this is an exclusive list: Rybak, Jarinich, Sisoyenko and Yvchenko, one minute. Four amendments, four to go. Please, I'll bet one thing at a time. There will be a vote in five minutes, please come into the hall. Fisherman, please, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u123	Ivan Ribak Cherniewecka District, 202 constituency. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster has registered an application under number 531 for the restoration and financing of measures for the implementation of the state-wide target programme "Drinking Water of Ukraine". I'd like to support this right. And another right by number 653 on budget program 3111020 for the repair of the road T-2601 Chernivci-Vashkovci-Putila-KPT Russia in the Chernivecki region, where Kitzmanščina, Visčina and Putilščina region suffer terribly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u124	Is there an amendment number or not? It's a 131st amendment, right? 531 fellow members who support amendment 531 of the People's Republic of Ribak, please vote. Please. [[18:12:34]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Jarinich, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you, not personally, but from all of our medical committee, because we haven't considered, practically, any amendments to the medical sector, and this is Amendment 497, which applies to all the programs that we're rejecting today. I ask you to come back to this question, because it's not just about reforming, it's about reforming the health sector, it's about the lives of patients. And the second amendment, I ask you to vote, is 1842, is to provide for a subsidy to the State budget of the city budget of Kropivnitsky for the implementation of measures for radiation and social protection of the population of only 42 million. This is because cancer is 50 percent higher than the average in Ukraine. We're on the uranium mines. 10 percent of all uranium is coming from right under our city. For the radiation and social protection of our population, please vote in favour of regulation 1842 for Kopivnicki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u126	Thank you. How important it is that it's still Kryvnitsky. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the people's MP Jarinitch in 1842. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[18:14:21]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, the last two performances. Yvchenko is handing over Volodymyr to Julius Timoshenko. Colleagues, I will not be able to give five performances for one faction, colleagues. We have to finish in one minute, we have to finish. I'm asking you, fellows, I have no right to go any further than 18:15. Yvchenko, then Sisoyenko and we go to the vote, colleagues. Please, Mr. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u127	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, we had a meeting with the unions, 47 of the unions were at the 46th meeting. What education and culture workers want today. And science? They ask that no plans can be supported to increase just 2 tariff levels of official salaries. They ask you to increase your salary and salary rates for all teachers. All the employees of the trade unions ask another, Vladimir Borisovich, in order to establish a minimum of one person for 2017: from January 1st to January 1, 961, from April 1, from two thousand, 300, from July 1, 2 thousand, 671 and October 1, almost three thousand, 200. They ask for the implementation of the law and the methodology for the accounting of the minimum of living. Request: Let's execute the law and support the amendment. This was reported at a meeting with the trade unions and the "Fatherland" faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u128	The number, please, the number of the amendment? Okay. Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the national deputy Yvchenka, please vote. Please. [[18:16:25]] For-151 The decision is not made. Colleagues, last question. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I very much ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Irina Sisoyenko, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Ukraine is the first to take precedence over mortality in other parts of the world. 70 percent of deaths can be predicted, after strokes, heart attacks, accidents, various complications, if emergency medical care comes in at the right time. In the first hour, it is possible to save a person’s life if there are machines of emergency medical disaster and there is the possibility of coordinating the challenge to the nearest car. The budget for the following year does not provide for any amount for the development of emergency medical care. And I insist, in part, on amendment 444: on the allocation of 392 million dollars to be issued to the areas to be built, so that the only emergency care unit can be built to coordinate the vehicle with the call coming from the village, from the area, from the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u130	Are you insisting on what direction? 144?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u131	444 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u132	Excuse me, yes, 444. Dear colleagues who support amendment 444, National MP Sisoyenko, please vote. Please. [[18:18:26]] For the 220. The decision is not made. Colleagues! The time has come for discussion. I had to finish the time three minutes ago. I've given it to all those who wish to speak. There won't be two shows, colleagues. There won't be two performances. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'll point it out again. According to the Rules, we consider proposals from factions and deputies, and then on the same day, a proposal is made in general. It's not a violation of the rules, it's a complete standstill of all the rules and regulations of the budget. I want more reminders. This is a vote in favour of the proposals of the Ukrainian Parliament. These are proposals, and positions, and the authority of the Ukrainian Parliament. We vote in favour of the budget committee's proposals to the government. Please come into the hall. One more minute until they come into the Chamber, Groissman, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u133	Thank you. Thank you, Reverend Mr. Head! I would like to draw attention to two important questions. The first question is the restoration of funding from the state budget of vocational and technical education. We will definitely take this step in 2017 when we vote on the final budget. This is the first position. Second position. With regard to the support of farmers and small agrarian producers. We're very interested in this, my friends! And that's why the consultations we've been doing say that it's these small, not these large holdings, the oligarchs, and those small farms that are going to produce the national product today that are going to be good. We're going to support a target of 10 billion dollars. But it has to be honest, it has to be open, it has to be completely done to get every penny to the farmer. And this is completely consistent, as I understand it, with Oleg Valeriovich and I just finished this discussion. This is completely consistent with the radical party's position. This is completely in line with the position of our colleagues at the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, and the MPs of all those who have just spoken about it, is our entire common position. Including this is completely consistent with the self-help position. Colleagues! We all want a good dialogue. Let's support these proposals. We'll continue for three weeks, four weeks with the government. We're ready to take a look at the budget proposals for customs payments. What may be involved, for example, in health matters? We're ready for this. So let's vote it today, send it to the government. We're going to have another iteration of our discussions with you and we're going to continue to come out in agreement. I'd like to come to the hall for the next time when we have a common consolidated position. I realize that some do not vote for political reasons. Political and only political, because "the frog chokes." But we do, and you know what "toad chokes"? I'll tell you. Because we're gonna make it! We're actually going to make changes in the country. And I truly believe that. I believe the teacher will get his money, the peasant will get his money, the economy will start working. We're going to be able to produce normal production, we're going to start a co-operation in industry. And so on and so on and so forth. So I would ask you, dear fellows! I'm talking about the Self-Help faction, the Radical Party faction, the Opposition Block, the Fatherland, the People's Front, the Peter Prashenko Block, all the non-fractional MPs, colleagues, well, that's what we've chosen. I realize that someone, once again, wants to destabilize the country. Well, you know, if destabilisation was in Parliament, it's still half-buddy. Or is it enough that people are in constant destabilization? Is it enough that people are starting to live, that they continue to live for decades in depression? Let's get the country out of depression, give people real hope of a normal life. And that's what we're trying to do with you. That 226 is the position of the government that is ready to work with you on any subject, supporting the President. What else do we need? We have everything to make Ukraine a successful, great country. And I think we can do that with you. And now I want to say another phrase of the great man, a colleague who was, unfortunately, the late president of Israel. Simon Perez, mentioned here in this room not once, said that "optimists and pessimists (and I add: populists) die the same way, live differently." Let us live as optimists, which will enable people to gain a normal life. And I believe that! And when someone pushed the country into a depot, I worked as a mayor who knows all of your insides and politics. And what you've been doing, don't let God keep you doing it with the country. Because I was taking the city out of the last places in the front, and you're a country, a beautiful country, where it is today. So I think our position is to support and vote. Thank you, Your Honor. And I'm counting on your support. And we will support the Paralympics as well. Thank you. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-20-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 157 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the draft Resolution (No.5000) prepared by the Committee on Budget Affairs on the conclusions and proposals for the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2017 for adoption as a whole. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[18:24:43]] For 230 230 for. Decision taken, colleagues. I'm sorry I made it. We had to hold an evening session, and there were a lot of speakers. I thank everyone for their hard work. I thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Government for their active participation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to the decision-making process. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. Thank you, colleagues. Congratulations on your decision. See you tomorrow. Good-bye.
