ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Prepare for registration, please. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, enter the hall, take up jobs. Please conduct the registration of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please turn on the registration system, please. [[10:04:15]] There are 294 national deputies registered in the hall. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Friends, it is now 98 years from the symbolic date in Ukrainian history, from the battle under the Kruts, when young boys put their lives in defense of the Ukrainian state. It was a turbulent period in Ukrainian history when the question was either-or-or, and the enemy was the same as a hundred years ago. This war is taking place for a hundred years when all efforts are made by the Kremlin to destroy the Ukrainian state in order to destroy Ukraine as a phenomenon. Same methods, same mechanisms. By the way, and then they claimed that Muravyov's army was not the Russian army, but that it was the Ukrainian Bolshevik army and that it was a civil war. 300 boys went to battle for Ukraine because the leadership at that time did not give enough respect and attention to the creation of the Ukrainian army. Because many of those who thought more about political concepts, socialism, talked about what the army was for. We're socialists, we're Russians, we're socialists, we're at war. We didn't think about the Ukrainian army, we didn't think about the unity of Ukrainian power. At the time when Petluri was arrested by General Bolbocan, when the fighting under Motovilka was fought by Konovalz and Krapadski, when the opposition led to the weakening of the Ukrainian state, there was no one left to protect it except the young students who were undertrained, not enough who had experience, but had great love for Ukraine, had great love for their land. They kept an opponent for four days, allowing Ukraine in the Brestic Treaties to establish Ukrainian statehood. So it wasn't a defeat, it was a Ukrainian victory. The victory in which the young students demonstrated to the then politicians, then generals, a pattern of love for Ukraine. Remembering those days, it is important for us today not to make those mistakes, as we have supported, supported and built the Ukrainian army, understanding, the enemy, as well as 100 years ago, will do everything possible to destroy Ukraine. We need to be strong enough not to let that happen. We need to understand that unity and a lack of opposition are the guarantee of our strength in the fight against external aggression. We need to remember those boys as examples of courage, heroism, and dedication in order to be worthy of their feat to be worthy of their memory. We pay tribute to the moment of silence of the fallen under the Kruts in 2018. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! I would like to welcome today the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich. Let's say hello to him together. [[Applause]] And according to the Rules we have an hour of questions to the government, the government officials here are present. And according to our Rules, you remember that first the speeches from the government, and then the entries for questions and answers. And I invite you to the Ukrainian Minister of Finance's report, Natalia Jaresko. Please, 15 minutes. I told you, members of the Opposition Block: "Don't shout, there won't be any money. Behave yourself." Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I welcome an active and very useful country to our cooperation with you at the end of last year. In particular, the adoption by the Supreme Council at the end of December of a budget package of laws that enabled our country to enter the new year 2016 with a national budget that provides sufficient funding for all the country's priority needs and meets the objectives set out in our cooperation programme with the International Monetary Fund. And get almost twice as much effort on the payroll fund. We expect that such a significant reduction in wage taxation will lead to the withdrawal of part of wages from the shadows and the increase in wages for many businesses for their employees. We are pleased to hear the first news of such plans by the Ukrainian business. Since the beginning of the new year, the Ministry of Finance has been actively working on implementing the legislative changes adopted in December and clarifying them to all parties involved. Yes, yesterday, I and my colleagues from Minfin, the Ministry of Regional Development, Education, Health had a meaningful and long-term meeting with the heads of financial administrations of all the regional government administrations of Ukraine, during which we discussed current issues of decentralization, changes in the taxation system, and other issues of concern to the region. During this week, we also received a list of issues that concern national MPs, including several factions. Now I'd like to answer these questions and tell you the whole logic and the key tasks of the Ministry of Finance for 2014. As far as tax law is concerned. First, let me stop at the change. In the past, Minfin developed and submitted a comprehensive and systematic tax reform to the Supreme Council in December, and a large part of our proposals were taken into account when the budget package was adopted. We are now working on the implementation of already accepted tax administration innovations. Two more weeks ago, Minfin, along with the DFS and the State Treasury, introduced changes in the order of treasury services for farmers, allowing the introduction of a new order of VAT taxation. This included the development of software for the electronic administration of VAT accounts for producers of agricultural products. Since January 20, 2016, we have started automatic recalculation of funds into the state budget and into special accounts for companies. About electronic excise duty on petroleum products. According to the approved legislation, the electronic excise tax administration system for the implementation of petroleum products should be operational from 1 March of this year, and the government must approve, firstly, the order of keeping a single register of excise consignment notes, and secondly, the order of electronic fuel administration. We are now working together with the DFS with the representatives of the sector to prepare these projects. The introduction of electronic excise notes will ensure the creation of an effective mechanism to control fuel implementation, make it impossible to implement at uncalculated fuel stations, from which no excise tax is paid, reduces the share of the shadow sector of the fuel market and, accordingly, increases the budget's revenue from excise taxes. As regards transparency in the new VAT recovery procedure. The innovations in VAT compensation will take effect on February 1, 2016. Today, the DFS is preparing registers of returns to the VAT budget, where they are posted on the DFS website. As for the state budget. The second large part of the questions that we received from the people’s deputies relate to the budget implementation situation. In particular, your colleagues were interested in reducing the risk of non-implementation of the state budget and in the implementation of the budget in January. The lowering of the EU's rate has been implemented with the key objective of removing wages from the background and creating incentives for investment. At the same time, we did not take into account the potential revenue from the detinction of wages in the budget, and therefore there is no risk of imbalances in the EU budget right now. The State budget and budget of the Pension Fund, where the main source is from the EU, are fully balanced, in particular the first figures on the implementation of the budget since the beginning of the year. In January we carried out the budget according to that time schedule, since February 1st, we are moving on to a permanent budget schedule, according to the adopted budget for 2016. On January 28, that is, without two banking days, we made the general budget's income by 94 percent, the expenditure by 73 percent. We have also fulfilled all the internal and external obligations of the state during this month. I know that among the deputies there is a considerable interest in what impact it has had on the costs of servicing and paying off the debt specifically. In 2016 an external commercial debt restructuring was carried out last year. I would like to point out that only on debt service costs, i.e. interest payments, will the economy be worth about 10 billion dollars in 2016. The budget is 99 billion dollars, and without restructuring it would be 109 billion dollars. To pay off the bulk of the debt, the economy in 2016 will make up about 54 billion dollars, budgeted 135 billion dollars, and would be 189 billion dollars. So it's only thanks to restructuring in 2016 that we're saving 64 billion dollars for the budget. I would like to stress that this economy is already on the balance sheet for 2016, which would allow us to balance it and lead to a programmed deficit of 3.7 percent of WFP. I also want to point out that in the current year we expect to get from our international partners to $10 billion in budget and investment needs in Ukraine, particularly from the International Monetary Fund, to $5.8 billion. From the United States to $1 billion. From Japan, including the Bortnich project that you ratified here, to $1.3 billion. From Switzerland, it's 0.2 billion dollars. From the European Union, 1.2 billion euros plus an additional 170 million euros in grants. From Poland, 100 million euros. From Germany, 300 million euros plus 50 million euros on investment projects. From the European Development and Reconstruction Bank, selectively $177 million in investment projects, plus $1.1 billion in new investment projects. From the European Investment Bank, $175 million in existing projects, plus $1.1 billion in new investment projects. And in the end, the World Bank is $210 million for investment projects, plus a half billion for initiating and preparing new loans. I also welcome the approval by the Supreme Council this week of the Minfin Bill 3388, which will enable us to sign the 5-year World Bank Recovery Agreement for $500 million, together with the previously signed EBRD Agreement for 300 million and the International Finance Corporation Agreement for another $200 million. Now we have the opportunity to get financial resources from international financial organisations up to $1 billion to buy natural gas from European suppliers. And so for the first time in the history of independence, we're financially prepared for the next heating season. We have the ability to buy gas at the lowest prices not in the season, and we have the opportunity to use reverses from Europe in full. Next: Local budgets. Finally, the third, important, block concerns the relationship between the central government and the local budgets and the continuation of decentralization in Ukraine. The issue of the distribution of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets and the formation of the infrastructure of the unified territorial communities, the Budget Act 2016 for the first time determines the existence of such a subsidy. Its principal is the Minregion. He has already prepared the draft order and conditions for granting subsidies that have been sent to interested authorities and which, in particular, proposes to approve the allocation of subsidies between local budgets. The next question is the distribution of another kind of grant to the State budget and the implementation of socio-economic measures for the development of individual territories. The Ministry of Finance has already requested district and city administrations of Kiev to make proposals on the distribution of subsidies between local budgets by February 2. We're going to work on these proposals and we're going to put together an appropriate draft decision to deal with in Kabmin. After approval by the government, the distribution of subsidies between local budgets should be agreed with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues. Another issue was the decentralization of the spending authority on the financing of vocational and technical institutions. Since 2016 such facilities have been funded from local budgets. This will allow the local executive authorities to train personnel according to the needs of the regional labour market, balance the labour market, improve the training system with the most needed professions among employers in the region. At present, the network of vocational and technical schools is very complex and needs to be optimized. To implement Article 27 of the Budget Act 2016, the Ministry of Finance will monitor the financial security of CTU during the first quarter, which will quickly address the local budgets where funding problems arise. But we also expect local authorities, along with the Ministry of Education and Science, to develop regional plans for the development of CTU, taking into account the need to modernize the network of vocational and technical educational institutions. With regard to the 2016 Minfin Plan Ladies and gentlemen, I have just outlined a number of current issues of interest to the MPs. At the same time, I would like you to have a broader and systematic understanding of what it is working on, what the Ministry of Finance is doing today, and what the main objectives and objectives are for 2016. Only by understanding the strategic goals will you be able to understand and see the reasons and logic of each of our actions. So let me give you five of Minfin’s top strategic priorities for 2016. We want you to see the rapid economic growth of our country, and the economy itself is free, with minimal State involvement in the economy, but with equally favourable conditions for all businesses. So the first goal for the coming year is to fight corruption in all the directions that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for, above all, in tax and customs areas, for which we need to radically reform the DFS. It's the most fundamental, important and unfortunately difficult task for 16 years. The reform of the DFS is already under way, and we started it in June last year when we approved a two-way plan for the reform of the DFS. And some of the plan is done. For example, in November 15th, Kabin doubled the number of regional governments in the DFS, which would allow much, almost 17,000 to reduce the number of taxpayers, but much higher and much faster than today, to be done now. And including the adoption of three draft laws that have already been passed to the Supreme Council and allowing for a number of important steps to be taken with regard to the reform of the DFS, these are bills 2176a, 2177a and 2178a. Second, it's to reform the office of large taxpayers. It's supposed to be staffed by the best professionals to be hired by the principle of creating a new police, that is, from scratch. The third is to automate the maximum number of business processes in the customs and tax services. And such automation requires funds, significant costs for the acquisition of equipment and for the development or purchase of equipment. The Ministry of Finance is now awaiting a European Union mission on Monday, which is coming to develop a plan with us on technology needs. The second strategic task of Minfin in the new year is, as I said today, in a business-friendly and citizens-of-the-line, that is, no later than 1 July 2016, to discuss with society and MPs and to undertake complex tax reform. The third objective is to ensure efficient and targeted use of taxpayers' costs, to further strengthen budgetary discipline and to reduce government deficits. This includes: the first is the verification of recipients of social assistance, the verification system is already in place, it's already working, and we're already seeing the first effective results of this process that we're going to keep the country aware of. And we know that this rule will allow a significant budget savings, it will direct them to those citizens who really need budget support. The other one. Introduction of the Zero Base Budgeting approach to transparent public finances when budgeting. So if to date the budget was an example of the past budget adjusted for the country's financial capabilities, now we're planning to make a zero budget. Third. Expansion of the E-Data transparent public finances portal. Four. Establishing a department’s assessment of the fiscal risks associated with the existence of state-owned enterprises inside the Ministry of Finance. And the last. Further expansion of the country’s banking sector is focused on state banks. To that end, we hope that the Supreme Council of Legislation will adopt the best practice in addressing the problem of bad credit for businesses and will put in place an effective mechanism to address the currency problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u3	Mrs. Natalie, how much longer? Approximately. [[Noise Nodes]] Then please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u4	Less than a minute. This is a draft of the Law (3555) on Financial Restructuring. We ask for your support. We are also convinced that holding banks should be reliable, powerful, with a clear development strategy and effective management, for which we are planning to submit to the government and society a strategy for the development of state banks in the near future. Finally, the fifth goal of the Ministry of Finance for 16 years is to expand investment resources in the country by involving new credit costs from our two and multilateral partners. These credit investment resources need to go primarily to the development of transport and utility infrastructure in Ukraine. I am sure that these reforms will be the next important step in increasing transparency in public finances, reducing the role of the state in the economy and liberalising it as a whole. The ultimate goal of all these actions is the rapid and sustained economic growth of our country for the benefit of every citizen and society as a whole. And we thank the people's deputies for their support for our initiatives, which we have already witnessed in our work and for the future support that we expect, hope and cooperate with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u5	Thank you. Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine Ivaras Abromavichus is invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! In 2015, we finished with a positive note. The budget has been adopted, many important anti-corruption bills. The laws on visa-free treatment with the EU have been adopted. A progressive reform law on State purchases has been adopted. Together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine, the Government was able to stabilize the macroeconomic situation and in the second half of the year saw the first flashes of growth. As promised, the Government, together with Nutzbank, is ready to phase out the various restrictions as soon as it ceases to threaten the stability achieved. A better example. The provisional import duty, which we have jointly abolished since 1 January, is two months earlier than the period provided for, as promised. It's a good signal for business. We're with your people, we're holding you back. This is a signal that the situation is stabilizing and normalizing. The worst macroeconomic indicators in the back. Nevertheless, 2016 will be a difficult year for the world economy as well as for the Ukrainian economy. After my visit to Davos, I am more optimistic than before. The world economy will grow faster than in 2015, 3.6 per cent compared to 3.1 per cent. But volatility in commodity markets, political instability will remain high and will have a direct impact on macroeconomic indicators in particular. All of this indicates that there will be a high level of uncertainty in the large scale. In view of external challenges, we have no right to relax and must continue the reforms launched in the 15th year, more reforms, just faster, better, stronger. I would like to talk about high materials, the fourth industrial revolution, the development plan for 20 years. I'm sure we'll discuss this further. But at this stage of development, the biggest obstacles to growth in our country are corruption, complete mistrust in the judiciary and in the State fiscal service, lack of protection of property rights and restrictions on macroeconomic stabilization by the National Bank, but deterring investment flows. In turn, the economics of the 16th year focus on the tasks that fall within its sphere of competence. Our priorities for this year are privatization, deregulation, procurement reform, export development, reform of state-owned enterprises, attracting foreign investment. Privatization. First of all, I wanted to thank you for having been adopted yesterday since the 16th attempt, although unfortunately only on first reading, Act 2319a. It will pave the way for transparent professional privatization, which we have been waiting for long enough. In our vision, privatization today is the main point of economic growth, the most effective mechanism for attracting foreign direct investment, it is also an effective tool for combating corruption, modernizing enterprises, creating jobs, attracting low-cost credit resources and opening up new markets for our products. The Davos Forum discussed a list of 400 companies that are changing the world. I'll tell you the truth, there's no public company among these 400 companies. State companies do not change the world and they do not change the economy, including our country. Deregulation. In general, we have abolished more than 100 regulatory barriers with you in a year and reduced the number of permits by 40 per cent. The deregulation plan was implemented by 72 per cent. But this is just the beginning. Of the same deregulation plan, there are 30 bills in the Supreme Council. We are waiting for thematic days in Parliament, economic development day and business climate day to consider and adopt a number of necessary documents. The economic impact of deregulation is calculated by billions of bracelets. This year's office of effective regulation will fully benefit from EU support last year. In 23 steps, they made a road map. We will rise already this year from 83 seats to the 46th World Bank Doing Business. The next 20 steps will allow us to be on top-20 in a year. Ratings are not a panacea, but in the last panel in Davos much has been discussed among the financial ministers of Japan, India, Great Britain and the trends and trends of different countries in relation to this business. That's the rating. The calculation methodology just assumes that the position in the rating fully reflects the situation in the country, so that it does not end up as in that anecdotes: “I have been opening the business for three weeks in two days.” That is to say, this in itself implies that it is impossible. Export development. The trade war with Russia forces us to double and triple our efforts to withdraw Ukrainian products and services to new markets for us. We have concluded negotiations on a free trade zone with Canada, speeding up negotiations on a free trade zone with Israel and Turkey. Many of you may know that this year 125 as the first Ukrainians to come to Canada. On such a beautiful date, we will necessarily sign a free trade treaty with that country. Since 1 January, a free trade treaty with the EU has entered into force, opening access for Ukrainian producers to the world's largest consumer market -- 500 million consumers, 18 trillion dollars of GDP. This historic agreement cancels and reduces 97 per cent of customs duties and reduces the average customs tariff on Ukrainian goods 15 times. This is just the starting point of our trade relations with Europe. We are having a discussion with our European partners on the further liberalization of trade with the EU. Last Friday, he personally met with the Commissioner of the European Union for Trade, Cecilia Malmström, and it was this paragraph that was discussed in particular with regard to combating corruption in public procurement. The Supreme Council has passed the necessary laws for this purpose, and I hope that you will quickly vote on the technical amendments next week. The case for discipline and motivation at all levels of government and local self-government. There is 50 billion dollars worth of savings in public money and trust between business and power. Because we have been delayed with many reforms and given that technology is changing very quickly in the world, we have a unique opportunity called Leapfragging, to miss several stages of development and to implement the latest, the most successful. And it's ProZorro's public procurement system, that's what makes it so successful. I am sure that by the end of this year we will have the most progressive system of purchases in Europe. With regard to State-owned reform. The country cannot afford to maintain thousands of state-owned enterprises, more than half of which have long been out of work. This year's lacmus paper, this reform will be reform of NAC's corporate management, Naftegaz, which moved from the Ministry of Energy to the Ministry of Economy at the end of last year. By the end of March, we look forward to the appointment and establishment of a fully monitoring board composed of five members, three of whom will be independent. This is being done by the best recruiting company to select independent directors from London. The aim of the reform is to isolate NAC “Neftegas” and other key countries from political influences on the best principles of world practice in order to stop being a money-laundering tool and make a profit. Our initiatives on this reform have begun to bear fruit, our initiatives on transparency, publicity and accountability have already been seen. According to preliminary estimates, the losses of the State companies in the past year have decreased from 117 billion grevens to 16 billion grevens. A total of 100 billion bracelets are cut. The involvement of foreign direct investment, the entry into force of DCFTA is an open invitation for European business to open its production capacity in Ukraine. Ukraine can become a "European factory". We are interested in major system investors that are upgrading businesses, bringing with them international standards and a culture of governance, creating jobs and paying taxes. We also want companies known worldwide to start working in Ukraine. For this to happen, we must implement all the reforms I have just mentioned. Despite the difficult situation in the country, the flow of foreign direct investment amounted to almost $3 billion last year. This year, we put on a high optimistic chart of $5 billion. The largest conference of foreign export credit agencies was held yesterday in Kiev, where an additional $2 billion investment appetite was announced. International financial organizations and export credit institutions are moving ahead of private business. We must continue to gain their confidence in systemic work. We are aware that we want to achieve economic growth in an extremely unfavourable environment. Global prices continue to decline for the main export products of Ukrainian production, namely metals, chemical products and grain crops. Russian aggression continues. The combined economic impact of Russian aggression over the past 2.5 years has been enormous and is already estimated at billions of dollars. The politically motivated actions of the aggressor country will continue to damage us. A fresh example: restricting transit of goods to Kazakhstan, which is a direct violation of the World Trade Organization rule. I am confident that our neighbor will continue to act unfriendlyly, without regard for international relations. We expect that, as a result of the embargo, the most favourable and restricted transit regime on the part of Russia, the loss of Ukrainian enterprises will amount to between $800 million and $1.1 billion. This means that we, the Government and Parliament, can no longer think, jump, trade among ourselves, leave the status quo. Our economy cannot afford luxury – not to improve business climate, not to privatize, not attract investors, not to close corruption holes. Only by working together will we achieve the challenges that we have. and the results that society expects of us. I look forward to your support and fruitful cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the recording. I would like to remind you that there is now a record of speeches by MPs, not factions, not groups, from MPs. And so if a group can't get on the list, it won't mean that I'm going to give her a word. We're only going to follow that list that's going to be fixed by the "Race" system at the time of writing. So prepare for the recording. And I'm asking you to record the questions of the people's deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please. Vitaly Semenovich, Petra Poshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u9	Dear friends, of course, I would like to ask the Minister of Fuel and Energy of the Demchina because we have neither energy nor coal. That's the bigger problem. But I think if the Ministry of Fuel and Energy's work continues at this rate, it's a weak link between the government and it won't have that ministry anymore. I have a question for Mrs. Natalia. Mrs. Natal, you said you needed to reform the PTU, but, however, there was a imbalance, and some of the districts were unable to support the PTU. Is there, perhaps, a point to translating them into a district budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u10	Roman Kachure, Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine Yesterday we held a meeting with the heads of all financial administrations of Ukraine and reached such a compromise that during the first quarter we will analyze the whole situation of financing CTU, if necessary, support from the area. During this time, however, each PTU should be made up of forward-looking plans, that is, the prospects for their functioning: appropriate, inappropriate, appropriate reform, unifying. According to the results of the first quarter, we will examine this situation and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u11	Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u12	Two questions. One question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Ivaras. And the second question to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Secretary, your initiative is to do a good job. The nominee committee held competitions to replace vacant positions of state-owned enterprises, particularly at State airports. It was done, if I'm not mistaken, two months or one and a half months ago. To this day these people who have won open competitions with the participation of international organizations to this day have not been appointed. They didn't pick the right ones? During this time, contractors and substitutes who take up employment are destroying businesses. I very much ask you, with your principle position towards transparency, to ensure that Kabmin makes a decree on the appointment of these people. Otherwise, it's an international sabotage. And the second thing. When subsidies and benefits are compensated. Three months of service providers, including OSBB, have no money. We've granted subsidies, but we don't pay them money. They'll stop soon. stop providing services for lack of money. They're bankrupt because of their activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u13	Mr. Beresuk, thank you so much for the good question. At the beginning of last year, on my initiative, the Nominee Committee, which appoints top-60 leaders, practically companies in our country. Under the criteria, this yield is more than 2 billion bracelets or assets more than one and a half billion bracelets. There were 60 top companies on the criteria. The five members of the Nomination Committee are leaders of international financial organizations in our country and five ministers with experience in this area. As a result, several very effective leaders have been appointed, such as Oleg Prokhorenko, “The Crushing”, who has already saved billions of bracelets for the State, and there have been several competitions, frankly, torn down by different kinds of roads and so forth. With regard to two airports. Both managers were appointed by the Nominee Committee, i.e.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u14	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u15	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u16	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u17	As a result, they are reported in the Cabinet of Ministers. There are problems with appointments, I fully agree. I can't get rid of the three leaders of the Ukrhimtransamiac, the Upper Chemical Corporation and the Electrotegmash. I don't know why these guys are holding their chairs. For the fourth time, the head of Electrotegmash returns to the company by putting his name on the register, a purely Ryder scheme in the mid-1990s, as I said before, I don't know what he forgot: either he forgot a sports suit there and couldn't go into the Jim or some letter that the predecessors were looking for him there, or "Golden Button", or "Golden Pen". But that certainly shows the powerlessness, unfortunately, and that's not good. That is why I fully agree with you. We will make sure that, even if a nomination committee has already been set up, it is the responsibility of the nominee to carry out its decision in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u18	Thank you. Gusk Volodymyr, Opposition Block. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The second question. Please. Teeth, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! I think that everyone here needs to keep pace with time and clearly understand what is happening in the same way as benefits and subsidies and coming to them, to those who need to be compensated. You have a faction of professional people who can tell you, in general, that it is at the beginning of the year that you are gathering information about how much aid, subsidies, and how they should come. First of all, at 11 o'clock today, we're going to be gathering a meeting about where, in general, subsidies are coming in, these clearing accounts are being increased today, and they're going to be accounted for. Don't wave your head, please check. For the benefits that must come at living expense. By the 25th of January, information from the districts has been collected, the question is that the information is being collected for a year, from January 25, 250 million dollars has already arrived, 25, 26, 27, and has already reached those providers of services that have the right to do so. This is the first schedule of the Ministry of Finance, the second will be developed, also at the beginning of the month. But the question is, we just have to understand each other and just not include politics where we don't need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u20	Thank you, Mr. Gennady. Now, please turn on the microphone. Gusak Vladimir Georgievich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Shurmi Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u22	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I ask my two questions to give two answers. First. Why does the minister continue to speak and report to the Supreme Council in a non-State language? The second question concerns health care. Today, the Ministry of Health has become the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Request. There are no reforms at all. Why are they gone? First of all, this year, it's been changed four times. Second of all, so far, there's no college at all. Few reforms have yet to be implemented, such as the Emergency Medical Care Act. 18 figures from the minister's words were all right in the flu. As snow on his head, today 150 are dead. I have a question for Kabmin. If you share the ministry’s work, you do not deserve to be trusted. If you're him. You don't share the Ministry's job, the question of why you don't listen to it, you don't rate it, and you don't let professional ministers do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u23	Mr. Shurma, thank you for your excellent position. If reform had been initiated by the colleges, those reforms would have started long ago in Ukraine. Unfortunately, that's not how it's done. The reforms begin with the adoption of basic laws, which have been in your committee since July, in 15 different editions. Take any form you want. And again. I want to tell you from what I saw yesterday's committee footage, I want to tell you that I'm such insults that you personally, personally you and Mrs. Bachteev, I don't know how to express it for myself, not enough words. So I'm not gonna take any claims from you unless you publicly apologize to my deputies, the Ministry and the people who were sitting there working 20 hours a day, and you're giving yourself the opportunity to talk to them completely incomprehensible ways. So please keep your claims to yourself, enact laws, and do what you should do as a deputy. Vote for the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u24	Krulko gives the floor to the deputy Eutuska. Please, Eutusek. Turn on the microphone. Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u25	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I have a question for the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Natalia Jaresko. Perhaps this hall has not seen a more unbalanced financial document than the Ukrainian State Budget Act today. I want to say that when we are in the district, we receive many questions from health workers. I mean subsidies to district budgets in the health sector. Tell them what to do. They have funding for 7-8 months from the energy pay fund. They don't have the ability to pay for it. And if you take a monthly schedule, it's already January-February month, there's nothing left to pay your salary. They're forced, money managers, to send employees on two or three Sundays on free leave. Is that a way out of this?Oh, my God! When will this document be reviewed? And the second question, vocational education. Please tell me, at 25 years of independence, or does Ukraine have to give up working hours for young people?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u26	The talk of debt was the same last year. But we can see that, in fact, last year was over. And all the wages, all the liabilities were paid 100 percent. The cost of a medical subsidy, or hospital funding, is distributed according to the formula. This is a fair distribution for all of Ukraine. And we can see that some areas are pretty efficient in managing and shaping their network. And so they have the resources for both wage financing and development. And we've allowed saved money to be used to develop and buy drugs. And those who do not want to manage the network effectively have problems all the time. As far as this year is concerned, we have evenly distributed this resource, in terms of finance. After each month, 11 and 21 numbers are steadily listed in each local budget for the financing of salaries. And these commitments are being carried out in a stable manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u27	Just to add, I can only highlight what we've already said on PTU. A decision has been made, declared. in part of the 2016 draft budget. We are obeying the law of Ukraine. First. The other one. We met yesterday with all the founding members of all the areas here in Kiev, we discussed specifically who have problems with funding at any level, who have plans to optimize, who have a desire to somehow get support from the district level. And you can't be clear about PTSD as a whole. In general, there are no problems, specific problems exist. We'll be dealing with every local budget in the first quarter, with every district department, all these problems. It's absolutely not true that you said that we didn't want to prepare for Ukrainian needs. It is a system of questions, our decision to transfer it to the district level was deliberately made to improve communication with local businesses and their needs and with those of CTU. Because it doesn't work at the state level. Please look at the result for 23 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, during the speech, the minister mentioned the deputy’s name. According to the Supreme Council Rules, I have to give 30 seconds for a replication. Please, Igor Shurma, 30 seconds. Get ready, Olesia Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u29	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm stressing that we don't work in the form of private property. Neither the Ministry of Health is your private property, Mr. Minister, nor my committee. The committee is critical. If the criticism that tells you that you've stopped coming to the committee, and you've been gone for more than six months, you're sending your deputies, and at the press conference, to the briefings where you're the promise champion, that's not the reason you're not answering today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u30	Please. Didn't it take 30 seconds? You're out of time. I've given you enough time. Ten seconds, complete. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u31	I'm talking to the minister. You are responsible for reforms, not for being criticized for inactivity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u32	Thank you. Long Oleg. Olesia Stanislavovich. Please, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u33	People's Deputy Long, faction of the will of the people. Ladies and gentlemen of finance, Mr. Secretary of the Economy, I'm going to be particularly supportive of any, you know, sharp replicas and opposing rhetoric in order to get a solid answer to a few important and simple questions. First question to the Minister. Mrs. Natalie, we all remember how by 4 a.m. we had adopted the budget and the changes to the Tax Code, and we had consultations, and you and the Prime Minister were convincing everyone that these actions were necessary and many steps needed to be taken by the MPs and the MPs in order to get a new tranche of the IMF, which is critical for our country and our economy, and which would allow us to keep and keep the bracelet at a balanced level in relation to those forecasting values that you have declared. It's a simple question. Have we received another tranche or will we receive it? And when? And the consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u34	What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u35	Please. 30 seconds, complete. Let her go, Mrs. Natala. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u36	And what effect will he have on the course of the bracelets? The question briefly to the Minister of Economy is this. You said, and everyone's watching the world's prices for our export positions like metal, ore, grain fall. Question: "What are we going to do to replace our exports?" And what are the points of growth you see? Who are the systemic investors you work with about their involvement in the Ukrainian economy of their investments and their businesses to create new jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u37	Thank you. You're absolutely right that the adoption of the budget that satisfied our deficit and practice framework and the policy that is described in the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund is, was a previous step towards getting the next tranche. Without that, we could not even agree on a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. The Fund has already said that by the budget and tax changes that were accepted with us by the end of that year, there are no additional questions, and they are not asking for any changes to date before the budget, nor are they. to the tax changes that have been made. We eventually had a very successful meeting at the level of President Lagarde in Davos about a week ago, where we discussed the last moments of the memorandum, the last moments of the new one, because it is being restored with each tranche. And as soon as we finish these negotiations on these specifics. The language, and here are the minor questions, because the President has discussed most of the issues and has arranged for this meeting. They don't matter anymore. And I think it's the fastest time observation board of their Board of Directors to give us. To make a so-called "second review" so that we can get a third tranche of about a billion 700 million dollars that go completely to the National Bank of Ukraine reserves, not into the budget, but into the National Bank reserves. This addition to our reserves can only have a positive effect on the banking system, on the bracelet, on the country's overall financial stability. Failure to obtain seems to have a contradiction, a negative effect. We expect it to be as soon as possible. I can't give the date of receipt of the tranche until they set a date for their observation board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u38	Thank you. Dmitri Lubinets. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will. Please, there'll be another question, right? Please answer the second question. Turn on the Ivarasa microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u39	Mr. Longey, thank you for asking. Last year, as I said, there were just under $3 billion, many companies continue to invest: "Bunge" -- $200 million, KWS -- 100, NCH -- 100, Olsidz -- is also close to 200. The Ministry of Economy, together with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Agar Policy, is fully convinced that most companies want further deregulation and have seen the first fruits of these initiatives in the past year. Growth points are, inter alia, the opening of markets for our production, and only in the past year, 9 new markets have been opened for agar products around the world, including China. The growth point for the economy will also be a cheap credit resource. The cheap credit in our banking system is a function of two things: low inflation and confidence in the banking sector. The banking sector will become stronger after this crisis, inflation will fall from 43 per cent this year to 12. Therefore, more deregulation, more opening up export markets are the immediate tasks facing the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u40	Thank you. Dmitry's pet. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u41	Good afternoon! Lubinets, Majority District 60, Donetsk district. I have a question for Mrs. Natalie, the Minister of Finance, but with regard to the paradoxical thing, it's going to apply to the agricultural and industrial complex. Please tell Mrs. Natal, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, we've changed and cancelled the only benefit that our farmers had -- the safety of VAT returns -- in fact, we've left the middle and the small farmer with the only hope of development. How did we balance the budget if it was just one thing: to take the small and medium-sized farmer and bring the big farmer back? That's the first question. And the second question is, have the National Deputies now registered a number of bills to break this disgraceful norm and your attitude towards it? And if you're not, if you've asked me to cancel this rule, maybe you're on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u42	Finish up, please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u43	What, maybe you're the minister of finance, who, I'm sure you're in favor of developing Ukraine, you're going to suggest that you go back to that standard and return the VAT to all farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u44	As for the security guard who has been accepted and is the law of Ukraine for today. This is not a project of the Ministry of Finance or the Cabinet of Ministers. It was a compromise that was created within the framework of the adoption of the budget. I didn't or didn't offer you three different guards that make it difficult for the administration. I'm just implementing Ukrainian law in this situation right now. As for cancelling the special, really, it was not only the position of the Ministry of Finance, but it was a commitment that we made with you back in March of that year when we were in a very difficult situation and we wanted support and a new program with the International Monetary Fund. This is a commitment that we all made in March 2015. We discussed this with all the factions of the coalition at the time. Everyone realized that this would be necessary as of January 1, 2017. Thanks to the negotiations at the level of the President, the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, the International Monetary Fund went for one year of transition. And we offered you a bill -- this transition period. It was complicated here, in these halls, when we discussed it, because it was going to be three different parts, for three different parts. If you ask me, I'm going back to what was in our project. These are the arrangements reached by the President, along with the International Monetary Fund, for the transition period of 1 year, which is reserved in one category, not three.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u45	Done? Please, Ilyuk Artem, Rebirth, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u46	Artem Ilyuk, the city of Nikolayev. I probably don't have a question. I have a claim from tens of thousands of Nicaraguans. In the city of Nikolaieva, once celebrated by its construction, which was destroyed during the years of independence, there are still, thanks to God, the most powerful enterprises that make a huge profit to the State. This is "Zorya"- "Mashproek", Oktjabersk Special Branch, Nikolaev Sea Trade Port, which you want to privatize without asking the Niklaevs, their opinion. By acting behind people's backs, you're changing the leadership by sending us varagus, even though we have enough of our own specialists, as was the case at the port of October. I'm asking you to get your hands off these businesses, take off that question, and don't make fun of people. Better make your efforts to upgrade and support these facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u47	Please turn on the microphone. Do you have microphones working? A brewery. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u48	Your Honor, thank you so much for asking, but it's totally wrong and basically not true. First, ports as an infrastructure element are not subject to privatization. I think you should know that and understand that because you're a deputy. And the government is proposing to privatize, as is the case around the world, stymieuran companies. And if you look at the experience of private-student companies that have very well proven themselves in Ukraine, you'll see that these private-student companies pay more taxes to the state, pay more wages to their employees, and are more efficient, and involve more transit flows to Ukraine that are too important to Ukraine. This is the first time. What I would like to remind you once again is that changes in government managers are taking place at transparent competitions. If you, honourable deputies, have a wish, you can come to the commission, to the ministry, and see for yourself how this happens. All presentations, all presentations are public, published. I don't know what kind of maggots you're talking about right now. But I would love to talk to you about it, because I have no idea what you're talking about. And I'm the minister of infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u49	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u50	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front faction. I have a question for the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Jaresko. I would also like to take part in the response of Minister Ivaras Abromavichus. So one of the tasks of the Ministry of Finance is to engage available credit resources for Ukrainian enterprises on the basis of bilateral international agreements. I want to ask if we are ready to ratify Poland's 100 million-dollar loan agreement to improve transport and cross-border infrastructure. And the next question. If it's transferred to the Supreme Council's apparatus, I ask the chairman to consider it and take it into the hall for the next plenary week. And the second question. So this is already signed and signed between the heads of the National Banks of Poland and Ukraine about the granting of 1 billion euros in credit resources, and I want to ask you what is the share of these funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u51	Thank you. As for the first question. I understand that a bill on the ratification of this 100 million euro loan agreement came to the committee yesterday, so we can really put it on the agenda for the vote as a whole. As for the second question. This is between the central banks of credit, and this goes to the reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u52	Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Lev Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u54	I have a question for the Minister of Finance, and I'm also asking you to join the Minister of Energy. You were speaking, Mrs. Jaresko, that January's income was 94 percent projected, and the expenditure was 73 percent. And at the same time, there were no salaries paid to miners who were directly set in the budget, paid in the past year, and accordingly people went out on the street. It's still going on. Last year, we know that in December, about 100 billion dollars of money was spent on budget expenditures that were accumulated and not spent before, and then went to the market that caused a sharp inflation of the exchange rate. Is this the right policy? And how about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u55	As for the first question, I've given you figures, really, but with two banking days, we can still reach 100, and I hope that the DFS will get 100 percent on arrival, and very often, on the last days of each month, payments are increasing. So there could be more than 74 at the end of January. As far as I'm concerned. debt to miners. 50 percent was paid in this month, but please understand that we do not exist under the new budget in January, as I said during the speech. So the provisional schedule is in effect in January, we start with the new budget only from February 1st, and everything will be paid, no questions asked. As it is, so it will be. Inflational processes. It's possible. Yes. We actually even discussed yesterday at the level of all our district directors so that we don't wait for the last decade, not even the last month, to do all or most of ours. To get my money out of the budget. Because it can actually have a temporary, not permanent, but temporary effect. In that year, we paid you an extra 10 billion to the Pension Fund, because we knew that we were risking a new year and with the fall of the EU, and we wanted to be sure that not one. One pensioner, the pensioner wouldn't be. We wouldn't have any problems. So it was deliberately done and it doesn't have a constant inflation effect because it was just a few days before the new year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u56	Can I have some more? Leo Theophilovich, can I have a few more comments? It's actually a very good question. Indeed, the budget had set off 500 million to pay off the debt for 2015, of which 50 million had already been used in January. There is now an agreement that the principal will be paid in February. So I'm convinced that the debt that was copied in November and December on January 1st is about 510 million today, is going to be repaid, well, even if there's some difficulty with liquidity. It's going to happen in February, in March, in a worse case. In any case, we make an effort not to increase this debt. I have repeatedly reminded myself that by 2015, about 1 billion dollars had been allocated to support the coal industry compared to 5 billion in previous years. The same mines that were left in the control area. What's more, there's a certain amount of debt today for our coal buyers, such as DTEK, who's getting coal on Westernergo from the Lviv swimming pool. Debt accounts for more than 200 million dollars. We work with them, hopefully they'll treat their miners the same way they do ours, and pay for those debts. And they're going to help balance the financial situation of our state-owned coal industries. The plan was developed for 2016 in conjunction with European consultants. There is an understanding that without major shocks in this area, we can balance the situation and for 2-3 months we can get into normal working mode. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u57	Thank you, fellows of honor! Question time's up. But I'm going to give the last one for Jurchant Peter, the Peter Dust Block, so there's no image that goes next. And then we end up with an hour of questions to the government. Last question, Jurchishin Peter. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u58	Please give the floor to the national deputy Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! I want to say that there is now a multi-million-dollar rally of people who have come from all over Ukraine under the walls of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. This is the beginning of the opposition of people against the so-called reforms that are taking place in the system of vocational and technical education. Dear colleagues, this is the result of the unsuspecting work of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, which in 2015 brought down the "Handbook 4-7" program, which ended the school bus program. Thanks to the Kabmin position, it directly violates the Higher Education Act, the National Agency for the Quality of Education, this is unprecedented when the Prime Minister violates a direct law that is adopted, imperative. I want to say that the way to destroy the weak is not a reform of education. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u60	Please, 10 seconds, finish. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u61	Now, the Committee on Science and Education and the Committee on Budgets is holding a working meeting, thanks to Lila Mikhailni Greenevich, two bills have been prepared: the budget and the Budget Code, and we have to adopt it on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u62	Please, who will answer? Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. Before going to the Supreme Council under the Ministry of Education there were 100 people, the rally takes place, but not a multi-thousand. So please don't manipulate. And when it comes to vocational and technical education and funding, I'd like to point out that, for today, there are only 55 NZs in 24 cities. But I want to point out that today we have close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and these issues will be resolved. And systematically, let's talk about reform first on the committee and then on in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let's thank the government for participating. You will be able to access the working order to clarify. Unforeseeable replicas, unforeseeable. Dear colleagues, thank you so much for sharing in our work. We wish you an active and fruitful work, and we thank the government for participating in our meeting. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, which I have approved, I have spoken and spoken, and I find this wrong, we will have to change it, I think I have passed a bill. But now there's an announcement of the MP's questions. And I am obliged under the Rules of Half an hour to announce the requests you have made before. I can't change the Rules on my own. There's a big problem. I don't have that kind of authority, and I don't have that kind of power. And so I'm asking everyone to focus, prepare to listen to the MP's questions. And I'm starting to read them nicely. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the free replacement of the right - hand joint of Tišku Alexandr Leonidovich, a village of the city type Romanov of the Žitomir region. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir ODA, Prosecutor of the Žitomir Region, is temporarily acting as Head of the National Police Directorate of the Zitomir Region for the verification of the alleged abuses by the head of the agrarian enterprise "Hodziszke" in the village of Hodiah Romanov County, Zitomir Region. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the transfer of roads of municipal property to the knowledge of local authorities. Alexander Gerega is Ukraine's vice-prime minister, Ukraine's Culture Minister, for the integration of cultural departments with the departments of regional government administrations. Vitalia Stasuka to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev, the first deputy prosecutor of Kiev for the activation of the pretrial investigation of individual criminal conduct. Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Plains Authority for the immediate medical care of the resident of the city of Dubrovnik of the Plains region of Dmitr Bulach, a paratrooper of the 80th Special Aeromobile Brigade wounded during the fighting at Luhans airport. Andrija Lozov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016. Alexander Chernenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the Administration of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine in the Volinsk Region, for violations of public procurement by the Manevic Correctional Colony of the Ukrainian State Penitentiary Service in the Volinsk Region. Tetjana Ostrikova to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of possible violations of effective legislation by a group of ZED entities that import goods with a reduced customs value. Jury Bublika to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Legal Policy and Justice on the violation of the rights of legal and natural persons when amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the payment of court fees by increasing its rates and cancelling the tax categories of persons who have been exempt from his payment when referring to judicial authorities. Jury Bublika to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Ministry of Information Policy of Ukraine, National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio on Unsatisfactory Language of Ukrainian Television in the Zone of Anti-Terrorist Operation and in the temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to eliminate the effects of floods and the restoration of financing of flood protection measures at the Tis River Basin in the Zakartat region. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of an additional amount of medical subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine for the Bousky region of Lviv, amounting to twelve million dollars. Victor Ostapchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the maintenance of vocational and technical education from local budgets. Anton Kisse to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine for the unauthorized dumping of pollutants into the Kyrgyz China River (the Danube Basin) by enterprises in the Republic of Moldova. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk and Vasil Janickýk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the Dublin Education Colony of the Administration of the State Pension Service of Ukraine in the Plains region. Vasil Janicki to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the crime of illegal possession and the destruction of state property at the "Ukrainetechservis" concert in Dnipropetrovska, Kyivska, Kirovgradska, Mikolaiivska, Poltavska and Cherkaskie. Vladislav Buhareva. Vasil Janicki to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the inaction in the investigation of crimes. I've read it. Please don't beat me up on such a responsible mission. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 to return funding to the establishment of vocational and technical education of the Subsidium and all regions of the State on the basis of subsidies from the State Budget for the preparation of labour personnel. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes and additions to the State budget of Ukraine for 2016 with the aim of raising living standards, social standards and protecting the most vulnerable levels of the population of the Suma region and Ukraine. Andrija Teteruka and Yuri Bereza to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation into the actions of Lieutenant-General Litvin Petr Mihajlovich during the ATO in eastern Ukraine, who was in command of the D-sector and 25 August 2014 near the city of Ilovysk, Donetsk Region, left the field of battle, leaving his area of responsibility. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, for the completion of the construction of an underwater pipeline to the villages of Oceretjanka and Jasna Polyan of the Red Army region of the Žitomir Region. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the vocational and technical education system. Vladimir Ariev to the Executive Director of the Municipal Enterprise for the operation and repair of the Housing and Services Foundation for the improper treatment of the management of the Municipal Housing and Services Company, according to a statement by Galinsky Gennady Panasovich, a citizen of Galinski Panasovich on the provision for information on tariff-forming documents used in the calculation of tariffs for maintenance services at the 18/30 Palladin Avenue in Kiev. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association Ukrzaliznica, Head of the Czerniewski ODA for the financing of the work to restore the low-activity railway movement in Kitzman, Montenegro, on the street of Bajan, at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine in 2016. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Chernobyl ODA for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of two permanent concrete bridges in the Chernobyl region. Vitalia Kuril to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the results of the Starobel-Hark transport competition, which may contain signs of corruption by officials. Mikoli Kucher to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of Vasil Anchenk in the Teplicki district of Winnick. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Health Minister for the Modern State of Drug and Medical Equipment of Agricultural Medical Institutions. Sergia Labazuka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for providing information on the recalculation of pensions to citizens in connection with the increase in social standards. Vitalia Kuril to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the fraudulent activities of the “Benefits Fund of Alexander Romanowski” and for the bribery of voters in the city of Svatov and the New Year's region of Lugansk on the basis of international assistance for internally displaced persons. Sergey Larina to the head of the National Police of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of inaction regarding the investigation of criminal conduct by the investigating authorities of the National Police Department in Kiev. Vasil Pétovka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding to complete the construction of a district hospital in the village of Ugl Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Biotzerkow District State Administration of the Kyiv Region on the gasification of the village of Ludvinovka of the Bilocerkow district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kiev ODA for the support of investment projects and programmes in the territory of Bilocerkowski, Voddarski, Skuriski, Stavistenski, Tarastian and Tetijev regions of the Kyiv region. Alexander Opanasenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the violation of legislation protecting economic competition in the oil and oil market. Igor Shurma to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to prevent representatives of the National Police from engaging in entrepreneurial activities in Kharkiv. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the illegal actions of individual law enforcement and judicial officials in the Dnipropetrov region. Fedor Negoya to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on the financing of forest holdings in Ukraine. Fedor Negoya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of appropriate response measures to stabilize the supply of electricity in the border areas of the Herson region in connection with the annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vasil Guljeva to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on delaying Ukraine's State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate in the area of decentralization in the area of architectural and construction control and improvement of urban legislation in the city of Illizievsk Odesk. Anatolya Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of Kharkiv region vocational and technical education in the form of State budget subsidies to local budgets. Anton Kisse and Vasil Guljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the system of vocational and technical education from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016. Alexia Lensky, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for Personal Control of Political Machinations, in connection with the renaming of the city of Kirovograd, the dispersion of the separatist and pro-Russian situation by politicians and public figures in the Kirovograd region, averting the threat to Ukraine’s national security. Groups of National Deputies (Bereyuk, Klana and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the maintenance of the existing system of coordination of the Ukrainian State Water Agency. Oleg Kulinić to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastral Personnel Policy in the Poltavian Land Administration System. Oleg Kulinić is head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre regarding the approval of a land survey permit. Irina Suslowy and Olga Cervakovy, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the full, comprehensive and impartial investigation of corruption offences committed by senior officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Stepan Kubeva to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for information on foreign investment, their participation in 2016. Stepan Kubov is the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the memorialization of the Dignity Revolution and the eternal memory of the Heroes of Heaven in the central part of Kiev. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds in 2016 for the completion of the reconstruction of the Lviv Regional Clinical Perinatal Centre. Dmitra Dobrodomov to head the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine on the reasons for the four-month delay in issuing student tickets to students of the Kiev National University of Taras Shevchenk. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds for the reconfiguration of existing town council premises in Ovruki of the Žitomir Region to provide housing for ATO participants and families killed in fighting in the East. Vladimir Aresonkov is head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the inclusion in the work plan of the current repairs for 2016 of the general use of state-of-the-art roads that pass through the city of Ovræ Žitomir district. Roman Semenha to Kharkiv City Head for the promotion of State architectural and building control in the reconstruction of the V.V. Library Mayakovsky and construction on the basement floor of apartment building No.81/85 on the streets of Mironysacki in Kharkiv. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to stop the illegal activity of the "conversion centres". Hanni Hopko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to review the archaic rules of access to the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to remove artificial obstacles for journalists, guests and visitors to the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its committees. Anton Herashchenka to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, for failure to respond to the parliamentary appeal by officials of the Ministry of Nature of Ukraine and for the unlawful inaction of officials of the Democratic Republic of Ukraine. Anton Heraszczenk to the Public Shareholders Association of the Skretelek Society, the limited responsibility of Eurotranstelek to provide information on the fibre-optic lines of electricity in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the Darnicki railway station in Kiev. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of increasing the budget for the construction (acquisition) of housing for ATO participants and their families. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the clarification of the appointment of civil servants and officials of the Service for the children of local government administrations. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the National Mediation and Reconciliation Service. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for an improper review of the MP's appeal of 16 June 2015 No.219 on the grounds of the determination of the area of the instigation on the street of Spasca 8b in Kiev and the tariffs for its maintenance. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Kyiv District Public Administration on a formal approach to the parliamentary request for inadequate medical care in the Kyiv area with chemotherapy and drugs to treat cancer patients. Jacob Besbach to the Ukrainian Human Rights Council, the Ukrainian Minister's Office, the Ukrainian Pension Fund, the Ukrainian Ministry of Social Policy on the need to resolve the issue of the appointment of pension insurance. Jacob Besbach to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine regarding the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Sergia Kiwalova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of a comprehensive and objective trial of the transfer to private property of the property of the recreational destination in the Bilgorod-Dnistrov region of Odessa. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the announcement of the natural territory of the Kuyalnicke Lyman of Odessa to the resort of State importance. Mikhail Bondar to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on fraud in Ukraine's financial market, non-target use by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine of funds, in the size of 240 million dollars that have been earmarked to pay off the wages of miners. John Balloga to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on how to finance the Zacarpathian region's vocational and technical training institutions in 2016. Andrea Shipka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to provide information on the conduct of public procurement for 2016 and the provision of medical facilities with the necessary medical equipment and medical supplies. Taras Batenka to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor, for the prompt review and proper response of members of the Competition Commission of the Military Prosecutor's Office of the Western Region on the gross violations allowed during the procedure for the opening of competitive housing offers for military officials of the West Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine in the land area of Mečnikov, 16 in the city of Lviv. Groups of people’s deputies (Bathenka, Musia, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the head of the State Service of Ukraine from a state emergency situation, the Henprocuratura, the head of the Lviv SDA for the immediate intervention and rapid response of the relevant state authorities to the technological disaster that took place on 12 January of this year in the Žovkow district of Lviv, namely: the spill of water containing acidous gourds from the Gribowitz garbage dump. Stepan Ivakhiv to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the disappearance of a 93rd Brigade member of the ATO of Senior Lieutenant Victor Wojciek. Stephen Ivakhiv to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the extradition of the former director of the Kovellian Housing and Building Union of the Wolf of the Kingdom of Spain. Andrija Illenka to the temporary duty of head of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Kiev City State Administration to provide information and to take action to protect the inhabitants of the Righteous region in connection with the illegal capture of nonresidential housing facilities by a residential cooperative. Andrija Illenka, head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, on providing information and taking action to protect the Dniprov region's residents in connection with the illegal construction of residential buildings on the street of Žmachenko. Paul Rizanenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev ODA on the financing of the project "Reconstruction of sewage treatment facilities located on the lands of the Krasiliv Rural Council of the Brovar Region of Kiev, with increased capacity" at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the openness and transparency of the National Bank of Ukraine. Irina Efraemov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the State Prize for ATO Soloy Denis. Vadim Nesterenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the possible involvement of the newly elected mayor of Novomoskowska Dnipropetrovsk Dnipropetrovsk region of Viktor Litvischenk in the anti-Ukrainian actions. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of an educational grant from the State budget of Ukraine to local budgets for the provision of labour training costs in vocational and technical schools. Alexander Kodola to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the restoration of the wrong rights to privatize the residents of the dormitory No.4 at Ushinska Street, House 6, the city of Chernigów. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the reasons for the absence of information on the findings of the examination of persons who are subject to the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Cleaning of Power. Jaroslava Markevich to the head of the High Council of Justice for the provision of information regarding judges of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine and the judges of the court of agriculture of Kiev. Andrija Lopushanski, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the need for a capital repair (renovation) of the road from the village of Tuhlja to Mount Makovka and the village of Gołowecke in the Skolów region of Lviv. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the establishment of the Regional Service Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Old Sambarian Region of Lviv. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection by the officials of the Plain City Council. Oleg Osuhovski, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the use of measures resulting from the conclusion of the working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was established to verify reports published by the Đrdfininspectorate on financial irregularities and to verify other facts of abuse in the public sector of the economy. Alexander Marchenka, head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre for the construction of R-17 in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Paul Dzüblik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unlawful act of acting as head of the General Directorate of the State Department of the Ministry of State in the Gitomir region on the illegal transfer of the stock. Victor Krivenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the facts of the illegal release of hired workers and compensation for the damage caused by such a release. Victor Krivenk to the Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the Poltava District, for legal reasons for carrying out an extra-planned inspection. Irina Suslowy and Igor Lapin to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the purpose of taking over the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for investigation of criminal conduct initiated by the failure of officials of the Public Shareholder Society Zaporiztal to pay the budget of the city of Zaporozhye money of about 150 million dollars. Alexander Dombrovsky to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Ministry of Health, BSS, temporary head of the State Geology and Nadr of Ukraine, State Geodesy Service, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the Vinicko District, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Vinnitsky Region, temporarily acting as Head of the National Police Department in the Vinnitsky Region, Head of the General Administration of the Dergeocadastre in the Vinnitsky Region, on the illegal removal of the fertile land and livestock in the vicinity of the village of Lisagore of the Ksaverian Rural Council of the Vinnitsky Region. Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, State Service of the Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the Directorate-General of the State of the State of the Vinnitz region for the illegal refusal of the Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Hemlin district of Vinnitsky in the provision of extractive technical documentation on the normative valuation of the land of private property for the conduct of commercial agricultural production. Groups of National Deputies (Zolobecko, Kozir and others) to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the initiation before the President of Ukraine of the award-winning titled "The Hero of Ukraine" by ATO Tereshchenka Alexandre Leontijovich. Groups of National Deputies (Zolobecko, Kozir) to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the initiation of the Ukrainian President's award with the title "Hera of Ukraine" of ATO member Olefirenko Jurija Borisovich (dead). Andrija Shinkovič to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the proper financing and development of the library system in the Hmeljna region. Andrija Shinkovič to the head of the Biological District Council, the head of the Theophilus District Council, the head of the Netishin City Council, the head of the Krasilov District Council, the head of the Isiaslav District Council for the preservation of existing facilities and states of library staff. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, head of the Plains ODA for the preservation of a medical facility in the village of Brezov Rokitniv district of the Plains region. Igor Popov to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine regarding the proper and full representation of Ukraine’s interests in international relations. Jaroslava Dubnević to the executive responsibility of the head of the Public Shareholders Association Ukrzaliznica, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the free transfer to the communal property of the non-residential premises of the Lviv Railway. Groups of National Deputies (Dubnevich and others) to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Minister of State, Minister of State, Minister of Culture, Boris Grigorovitch Voznick. Ruslan Demczak to the head of the State Department of Fiscal Services in the Vinnitsk district on the problem of milk processing by cashiers. Ruslana Demczak to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the problem of providing the population with vaccines against leprosy and the right. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the question of the non-targetness of the transfer of labour resources to finance from local budgets. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent payment of benefits and subsidies to OSBB for the social protection of the population of the regional public administrations, with a view to carrying out the accounts with the service organizations and maintaining the property of Ukrainian citizens. Groups of National Deputies (Doubova, Polyakova and others) A total of 15 deputies) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the verification of possible corruption by officials and officials of the Odessa District Administration. Groups of People’s Deputies (Doubova, Polakova) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the full consideration of the issue of the elimination of violations of legislation in the organization of the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, therefore, the time given by the Rules for the reading of parliamentary requests is exhausted. We can go to the next chapter of the agenda, honourable colleagues, this is the first reading of the bill. The first is 2917. Let's talk about how we should be. Ladies and gentlemen, let's try a signal vote to determine what the potential is. Dear colleagues, the recommendations are correct and correct. But let's try this, so let's try who's in favour of the short-term review of the bill, please vote. Signal vote. Please give me a signal vote. [[11:49:31]] For-79 The potential is low. Low potential. Let us not be ashamed of ourselves. Look, I've been asked by the People's Front faction to announce a recess right now, and I've been asked to start at 12:20. Is such a form accepted, fellow workers? See who wants to sign up at 12.20? [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the other form? Well, "Crazy," I say, "Crazy" at 12.20, yeah. I can't do this right now. Well, unless there's 226 in the room to cancel the break. If there's 226 cancel the break, I can cancel now. Colleagues, then I'll turn to those. You're taking that form, aren't you? Colleagues who want to go to the Vulnerable at 12.20 will come into the hall and make an announcement. So there won't be any discussion about why. Now, according to the Rules, I'm announcing 30. I'm gonna have to interrupt the enquiries, the company, and call it a break. I'm calling it a break until 12:20. At 12.20, there'll be a recording of the performances at the Miscellaneous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u65	Dear fellow MPs, the time laid down by the Intermission Rules is over. Please prepare for the recording for performances in the "Victory" to concentrate. I pressed the button a few times to get higher. It didn't work, but I did. And I'm asking you to do a recording of the performances at the Miscellaneous. Please. The roulette is on. It's treason! Igor Shurma, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u66	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm addressing those fellow MPs who are sitting in the Supreme Council today, and I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens. What is the sin to keep secret when the government's work was transformed after the revolution. Very many people, including those who are opposed, were hoping that there would be some positive developments, especially in the health system. Unfortunately, the arrival of foreign comrades into the government of Ukraine has not changed anything significantly. I'm not saying that they continue to ignore the national language, despite the fact that the ruling coalition makes absolutely different demands. The work of the Ministry of Health is completely paralyzed today. Regrettably, instead of making systematic, structural changes in the organization of the health system by reforms. This ministry has become the Ministry of Trade. The minister of health has become the world champion of briefings and conferences. By making numerous promises to journalists and society, it all comes down to: Tomorrow we will give, tomorrow we will offer, tomorrow we will have reform; we will seek humanitarian assistance, we will seek help. Today, the Ministry has every opportunity to carry out reforms. Why isn't it running? And it doesn't run for a simple reason: in one year, the structure and the schedule changed four times. Everyone who was a professional executive doesn't really know if they're working or getting fired. During the year, no colleges have been held to understand what concerns the region today. The only meeting with the Prime Minister was that the Prime Minister said, "Sandro, I'm giving you three months before September. If you don't make it to today's reform day, we'll be asking about retirement." We have a logical question. If the Cabinet of Ministers shares the inactivity of the Ministry of Health, he is responsible for this inaction, and he does not give rise to confidence. This is very dangerous before the report. If, on the contrary, they have concerns about health - care changes, they are obliged to listen to the Ministry and evaluate them. Moreover, the minister took responsibility for himself. He doesn't come to the committee for six months, he promises that bills that are being reformed don't go through the committee. I have a question as a representative of the opposition. There are only two of us in opposition to the committee: me and Baccheyeva. 11 members of the coalition today, who represent those who voted for it, do not support the health reform initiative, they do not want the Georgian system, their political friends themselves, the question is: How professional is this person’s activity? He shouldn't be tormented. Sandro, don't torture Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u67	Thank you. Vadim Podobraznak gives the word “Olena Bondar. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u68	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The People's Front has consistently and persistently advocated the support of local self-government, the decentralisation of power, the transfer of authority to places and the transfer of resources. We are deeply convinced that a strong community is a strong state. The main priorities of Parliament’s work on decentralization were outlined last week by the Head of the Supreme Council, supporting united territorial communities, enhancing the capacity of local self - government and the development of local democracy. It is the development of democracy that guarantees the development of the state and the reform of decentralization. Participative democracy, that is, democracy participation, should become a dialogue between authorities and citizens on all important issues. For another year, the national MPs from the People's Front were co-authors of very important bills: the All-U.S. referendum, number 2145a; the local referendum, 2145a-2; the local initiatives, 2296a; the public hearings, 2295a; the public control, 2297a. They also supported the idea of updating laws on self - organization of the population and on general congregations of citizens. We note that the legal recognition of direct forms of democracy in Ukrainian legislation does not mean their effectiveness. And our task as parliamentarians is to create new forms that will ensure the effectiveness, non-bureaucratization of social dialogue mechanisms. The pervasiveness of the rights of direct democracy, the possibility of social dialogue, the creation of safeguards to abuse that right, our important task. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the People's Front supports a social dialogue on the basic challenges and strategic directions of our nation's development. We support the Constitution of Ukraine and changes in both the judiciary and decentralization. But we also speak about the social dialogue on the new updated Constitution of Ukraine. And it is for this dialogue to be effective that we look to our fellow national MPs to create new rules, new forms of direct democracy that would provide an effective such social dialogue. We call for work on the bill on the All-U.S. referendum and on the bills that I have read about other forms of direct democracy. Once again, a strong community is a strong state! To the dialogue! Don't be afraid of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u69	Thank you. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich, the block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u70	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. Dear National Deputies! All those of us who don't have much left in this room! I think the 3rd session of the 8th call is over. If you analyze it, really much has been done, much has not been done. Various bills were adopted, both positive and negative. But at the same time, I'd like 4 sessions of the 8 summons to be much better. Because, first of all, we would like to raise the issue of intrusiveness again for the 4th session. The intactness of the people’s deputies. Because I'm saying again, I wish we were on the same page as all the common people, I wish we could not have dinner with a judge, a militiaman and someone else or there, whether they deserve it or not. Because I think we should take some responsibility. Today, Friday was different. I wanted some more bills to be considered, unfortunately they hadn't been considered. In particular, today the chairman asked questions about the draft legislation, in particular 2917, is the preservation of a network of children's health facilities. And the other questions that we could accept today, but with the discipline of our national deputies, we didn't have to do that. And I would like to have four sessions when he starts his work on Friday, and these bills are also passed, not just Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. Because even question 2917 about our children's health facilities, we know very well. Even take Young Guardia, the children's health center, where 9,000 children are actually getting better today. And we could also recover 15 if we really adopted legislation on this. I would also like to return to the special financing of agricultural enterprises. Today, we were right to ask the minister of finance, that is to say why, and how much, and how much, we saved. Jarezko said that it was a commitment. This, well, they may have had a commitment. But I would also like to turn to the minister of agriculture, the agro-industrial development of Pavelek. Why he never stood up, stood up for farmers, and did not really protect people. Because we understand very well that if we don't buy technology today, we don't buy adequate protective equipment, we don't sow valuable seed materials, and we lose everything we can lose in a year or so. And we're going to see that we're going to have to reverse the underfunding, the underfunding of our country. So I really wanted us to leave this VAT return to the oligarchs, the traders. Because it turns out that we're taking it away from each other, and we're giving it to the other. They are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u71	Ten seconds, please, half is impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u72	I think the honourable national MPs, the fourth session should be much better. And we have to do everything we can to make the fourth session more or less, the better laws we adopt with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u73	Thank you. The next session will just be beautiful. Silantieus renders the word “Galasjuk. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u74	Thank you. Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! Today, both the Minister of Economics and the Minister of Finance spoke. There have been reports of reforms that they consider to be successful. And what's particularly frightening is, I think, not just the MPs, but the whole society, what the Minister of Economics wants to do this year is what they did in the past, just faster, deeper and more extensive. And what he did led to a complete economic downturn in the country. That's what every citizen feels about his wallet. This is felt by every entrepreneur under the conditions of business that exist. You realize that when the country is difficult, the situation can be rectified if there is a proper view. And people can suffer a little when there are reserves, what to suffer from, and when there is an understanding that tomorrow will be better than today, because the government is doing the right thing. So far, the share of the population's income is now 3 percent. It's just critical. People don't have a penny to put off, and they don't have enough to pay the fares, buy the drugs, buy the food. Under such conditions, the economy cannot work. If the government's plan is to increase the economy by 1 percent per year, and they can talk about it calmly, it's not our government, because Ukraine needs an ambitious development plan, and it needs this involvement of large-scale foreign aid, the Marshall plan today, and economic policy for its own business, for its own producer's sake, in the interests of its own economy. What's not being done is, in fact, it's been saving up the economic crisis that's taking place in the country. And it's not just at the level of symptoms, it's not just at the level of citizen poverty, it's seen at the level of fundamental imbalances such as investment deficits, the decline in production and exports, the financial dependence and the energy dependency of the country. Tell me how in such structural imbalances we can simply say that we will continue the existing course. No! No! The Radical Party faction insists on a qualitative change in the country’s economic exchange rate. That is why we have formally proposed to the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council an anti-crisis economic development plan that contains not only professional diagnosis but specific plans, instruments, legislative initiatives that will allow for a remedy. And then, and the following year, you can come to Davos not to ask for another billion aids, but to show how Ukraine can be useful to the world that we can give the world. And we can give a lot of the world intelligence, science, production, show a real socio-economic development programme that is convenient to Ukrainians, entrepreneurs, manufacturers and foreign partners, and include international financial assistance to speed up the real way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u75	Thank you. Oleg Osuhovski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Ukrainians, yesterday we sent to the Constitutional Court a project on judicial reform. But it's actually a fair trial reform, and it's never going to work in our state, because the re-registration of judges was already a re-registration of prosecutors, and it's like 4,000 prosecutors got fired. But we still see corruption in the Ukrainian prosecutor's office. The same will be true of judicial reform. It is necessary to immediately release all the judges and clearly in open competitions to re-elect, and even better to introduce the selection of judges so that the Ukrainian community can choose the same way, and to call on Ukrainian judges, such as the National Anti-Corruption Bureau or the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, when there is no real judicial reform. Further, all corrupts will take bribes huge to the courts and will be redeemed as now all these diamond prosecutors and all those corrupts that are in our state are being redeemed. Also today, in the Supreme Council, we see a huge sabotage in the fight against corruption, namely, on Tuesdays we placed seven times in the agenda for electronic declarations. Sadly, though, this question was not put into the order of the day. And already on Wednesday, on the anti-corruption committee, we actually passed this law. And it has to be put into the agenda. So we call on all the people's deputies to support this, because electronic declaration actually requires us and the European Union, and this applies to the visa-free regime. If we fail, it will be on the conscience of the current coalition. And we hope that there is still the supreme political will of our leadership of the nation to fight corruption in our country. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u77	Drevijanko Yuri Bogdanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u78	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear Chairman! Dear Ukrainians! Respectful colleagues who care about corruption are involved in the fight against corruption. Today, we're seeing a continuation of the relationship with a whaler of funds on another episode that we announced at the end of last year. On December 29, 2015, at an Interfax press conference, I reported an attempt to steal more than 500 million dollars of Kyoto Protocol dollars through fictitious companies, such as the Agrotechbud, which received more than 500 million dollars of purchases with prices that exceeded two or three times the market price. All the facts presented at the press conference were confirmed without exception. And all of a sudden, we see that Prime Minister-Minister of Ukraine has found archers, in the form of the acting duty of the Minister of Ecology of Kurikin and the heads of the Structural Units to take away any responsibility for not using the Kyoto Protocol's funds, for the government itself has prepared the opportunity to steal this money before December 23, with the government's decision to re-pay 75 percent of that amount. Contrary to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, contrary to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the Prime Minister extended this decision to the government and created such necessary preconditions. I want us to understand that this is just a farce. Because two years ago, it was the government of Yatsenuk that signed the Order of Arsenija Petrovich on the possibility of being converted to fictitious firms 2.9 billion dollars of Kyoto Protocol money. Then we did not even manage to break a criminal case, even though the funds were saved. This time, I would like the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which has now been created, not only to consider issues relating to those to which the government points, but to examine carefully all the actions of all government officials in preparing for this crime the assassination of this theft and execution, including. Few of us are approached by representatives of communities, villages, cities that appear to have made their own proposals to replace street lighting in huge numbers of cities and villages across Ukraine, at the request of district government administrations, but the government did not go that way. The government went that way to steal this money through fictitious firms, not to make more than a few hundred contracts directly so that these villages, cities and other communities are lit up and have modern lighting. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we're going to be returning a huge amount of money, more than one and a half billion dollars of the Kyoto Protocol, that's huge damage to the state. I'm going to the Anti-Corruption Office, the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, and I'd like these to be the latest receipts they've written, not moving a criminal case over the years, but saying they're going to be monitoring the issue. I want you to this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u79	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u80	I'd like this time not only to have a criminal case, but to have a real criminal case brought to justice. And I would like you to consider my statement as a matter of law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u81	Thank you. Hiccup Andrew. He's giving Kulinic the word. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u82	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Last week, like most of you, I worked in the district. And, practically, in every populace of my 147 constituency, people ask the same questions -- it's a question of wage and pension index, low-quality health care, catastrophically low quality, gas quality issues, housing and utility payments, and subsidies. Subsidies to the population today seem to be settled, almost a third of them are received, and there are some areas where these figures are up to 60 percent. Subsidies are vital to people, but at the same time, they mean that the utilities that provide these services hardly see any living money. The cost of the services provided must be reimbursed from the State budget. Subsidy compensation for utilities comes with huge delays, although this is a typical situation for the beginning of the year, but now there is a critical situation, no cost is counted at all. Accordingly, utilities themselves cannot pay the cost of energy carriers on time. They have accumulated debts on wages to their employees, increased fines, and a host of problems. Here's a specific example. Last week, I met Zinkovsky's city head, Sergey Maximenko, who gave me a report of a catastrophic situation that took place in the city's municipal utility Zinkowsky Kommungosp. Zinkovsky Commungosp provides its services to almost 4,000 300. 400 subscribers, 50 percent of whom use subsidies. During the past two months, the government budget has not paid any compensation for the services provided to the citizens assigned to these subsidies. On the 15th of January, 2016, as he told me, more than 400,000 dollars were owed to Zinkowska Kominal Company. With such a debt in the future, this company will not be able to exist, and this will be a real threat, in general, a disaster for the city of Zynków, and for this enterprise, and for the people working in this enterprise. The issue of subsidies for utilities should therefore be addressed immediately, and subsidies should be paid on time. And I think it's a typical situation in the state at all, and there are examples in every neighborhood where there's a community enterprise in the area that needs to be addressed immediately. That is why I am requesting the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Mrs. Jaresko, to take urgent measures to pay off this debt. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Minister of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u83	Thank you. Ostap Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u84	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! The consequences of unprofessional, unprofessional, and inadequate management and actual negligence can have negative consequences for this sector, for the population, and even lead to death. This is exactly what we can experience this spring and summer when the east and south of Ukraine can be used as a chamber, because the non-facile, inequitable and muddy management of this year's forest management has put 120 million dollars in just the right amount -- about half a billion, 60 million of which will go to the conservation of the natural reserve. What does that mean? That the south and east of Ukraine, woodchoppers, which are actually subsidized, whose function is to save forests, will be unfunded. The workers of these forest farms are now only working one day a week. This means that we will have illegal scars because there will be no one to protect the forest. And that means there's not going to be any firefighting in these regions. I urge the Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy to make changes to Ukraine's budget and increase funding to the necessary level. But we shouldn't just mechanically add half a billion dollars. I also urge that every article of this budget spending, so that we can see clearly: both the national MPs, and the public organizations, and the expert environment, which is what every penny of this money is going to go to, so that when we approve these expenses, we can clearly understand that no amount will be stolen, as it has obviously been in the past years. Instead, it's from the good news. Last year, when we approved a moratorium on the export of unprocessed wood, I actually see in the news every week an increase in investment in the woodworking sector. A huge factory is being built on the Plains – the largest investment in the area, 20 million euros, in Volina, in Žitomirščina. So the Supreme Council of Ukraine last year, banning the export of unprocessed wood, actually gave the wood industry a chance to develop. It is also important to understand that there is a professional staff reserve in the field, that the middle chain of management is young professional staff: professionals, engineers -- who have never been involved in corrupt equipment that did not actually have management powers. They're now in place, and it's up to us to form a human resource reserve for the sector, and it's up to us to assign them to management positions in the forest farm, not former thefts -- forest managers, not district managers, and appoint professionals to run the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u85	Thank you. Stasuk conveys the word to the deputy of Krivoshei. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u86	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! I would like to draw attention to my presentation, first of all, not just to the leadership of the country, but to the attention of those who are participants in the ATO and who suffer in some way from harmful officials, particularly in areas such as local administrations, city councils, district councils. What is the point of my speech? I was approached by an ATO (I won't call it a name because I'm afraid he's going to have problems right now), a person who lives in one of the hostels in the Cave district of Kiev. This man. In 2014, his sister, along with her mother from Donetsk, moved to Mariupol when they were. Appropriate military action has begun. For 8 years his sister defended our country in Mariupola in the lavatories of that then law - enforcement system of the militia itself, becoming a part of the ATO. Then, with their mother, a sick mother, they moved to Kiev, where the head of the Cave Administration promised to give them a room to live in. Sadly, the mother did not wait for that time, but one of her daughters remained. At the same time, her brother, a member of the ATO, lives in this hostel. It turns out that under the direction of the head of the Pecher administration, in the section of the President's decrees, the decisions of the Supreme Council, in breach of the decisions of the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, in breach of the decrees and all the orders and regulations coming from the Cabinet of Ministers, the corresponding management company wrote two letters requiring them to evict members of the ATO from the respective group. These people live there for more than a year. These people don't have pens, because in the process of transferring them (and hundreds of them) they just didn't have them, because the law may not give them the right or anything else. But it doesn't allow you to evict an ATO participant or any unprotected population and, if you'll excuse me, for $3,000 to give this room to someone else. Incomprehensible to another person. This is especially true of the secretary of the Cavekeeper’s head. I know that today there is a positive decision regarding the release of this person from office. I expect that there will be both agreement and the Cabinet of Ministers, and a decision will be taken accordingly by the President, and as soon as possible the appropriate person will be released from office as head of the Cave Administration. I want such vachanals to be stopped. Of course, on my part, a number of deputies will be addressed to the President of Ukraine and to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of the Interior, to the Attorney General's Office, to all the necessary bodies, in order to verify these facts, which are set out in these documents, and to put an end to the relevant lawlessness.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u87	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u88	I apologize for my perhaps aggressive speech, but I just want us to understand that we will stand up for every person who is socially vulnerable to such destructive officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u89	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u90	Because the policies of the President, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Council, all the deputies are independent of them. must stand first and stand first in the defense of every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u91	Thank you. Bérezük gives the word to Romanov. Please, Romanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear fellows! People of Ukraine! It's just that the government's report has been issued by the Minister of Economic Development and Trade, and he's just started his speech from the fact that 2015 ended on the positive note that we've gotten, that the financial situation and the economic state have finally improved, that the fourth industrial revolution has also been heard. I mean, honestly, it wasn't clear what country Ivaras Abromavichus was talking about. And so I just want to do a little bit of statistics, that's according to official reports, just like our country ended up a year ago. According to an official report by the International Monetary Fund at the nominal per capita GDP, Ukraine from 106 to 133, and we were surrounded by countries such as Papua New Guinea, Honduras, and Congo, as well as Nigeria. If you take a report from Forbes Ukraine, the middle class rate in our country is now 0.86 percent. That's less than the percentage of people who make up the middle class. When it comes to the human development index, which includes income per capita, such as life expectancy, as an indicator of higher education, Ukraine has 82 places. For example, Belarus has 50 seats in this rating. Therefore, I do not think it is right to say that Ukraine has now improved its economic situation, which has stabilized its financial situation. And the minister must be accountable to Ukraine, to every citizen for what he says and for giving a positive analysis and a positive assessment of the situation. I'm not saying that if we ask every Ukrainian citizen right now or his economic and financial situation improves, you won't hear anything except curses and bad words. That is why I believe that this crisis situation, which is now in Ukraine, must be recognized by the government, must be realized by the Prime Minister. We need to immediately review that coalition agreement that we've been making since the Council's 8th call, see how much of it is done. To see why it is not done, who is to blame? Why do we adopt laws that do not? And it's urgent to start doing something. Because we Ukrainians are demanding real reforms, real change.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u93	Thank you very much. Sissyenko passes the word Mantis. Please. I'm sorry. Now Andrew Illenko. I just didn't get the computer right. Now Andrew Illenko. Next performance is yours. Excuse me, please. Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u94	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Today was an hour of questions to the government, and it was supposed to be about economic issues. And it's very important because I'd like to hear from the government a concrete answer why we have such a huge economic downturn in 2015. I understand 2014, I understand, the active phase of war, revolution, change of power. But that economic catastrophe that took place in 2015, the actual collapse of the Ukrainian economy, which is still going on, these questions are completely unanswered. Moreover, we have not heard any strategy. What does the government and governing coalition offer today? Only two things are specific. Everything sold out, everything that can be sold during a crisis, during a war, when nothing is worth anything. And the second thing we're offered is just waiting for the next IMF tranche. Come on, dot! How long are we gonna live like this? Year, two, ten, twenty? How much? Are we ever planning on getting some self-sufficiency? Does the government have any plans to do that? Is that not even in principle what anyone wants to do? That's not even the point. And you have to understand that these IMF loans are not charity. It's not just giving us money to carry on. This is an increasing debt. And that makes money for us too! Our future generations, including ours. And this so-called economic strategy that we've heard from the government is completely contrary to historical experience. As was the case in absolute crisis situations, in very difficult, wary or postwar conditions, successful countries like South Korea, like Israel, like the Federal Republic of Germany, like Japan. There was a completely different policy. There was a policy that was directed to the internal market, to the development of its own industry, to make itself self-sufficient. Not just to live on credit, to increase government debt, and not to think about any economic strategy at all, and to sell everything at no cost during the war. To continue this marasm in general, which was in the nineties that led to our oligarchy, the very inefficient, unjust economy in Europe! And continue to do so, to demolish it definitively. Our specific proposals. We have a bill to eliminate private monopolies. This is the main problem today. Private monopolies that don't allow businesses to develop that hold everything together and destroy our economy. This is our first offer. Our second offer. Progressive scale of taxation, like all over Europe. Small business -- small taxes, big business -- big taxes, big interest rates! This is a socially fair one, and this will allow you to fill the Ukrainian budget. I've only said two of these, and we have a lot of them. We have over a hundred bills that are not being considered in the Supreme Council. That's why this incompetent, unprofessional government is gone! And we need to pursue a policy of economic nationalism in order to get out of the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, the Mantis. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u96	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national deputies, have stopped investigating the events and tragedies that took place under Ilowaysk in August 2014. The case is not brought to trial, and the charges are not punished. In this connection, I have been contacted by activists of the Ilovia Brotherhood and the Military Patriotic Union of the ATO "Justice" participants, directly members of the "Ilovia Cattle" from the People's Deputies on the restoration of the work of the TSK in the investigation of the Ilovia tragedy in the National Deputies of today's vocation; on the immediate transfer to the Court of Criminal Affairs of the Ilovia case, which is being investigated by the General Prosecutor-General of Ukraine (criminal conduct No.420140000000900), on the possible negligence of military officials in the service during the military operation of the city of Ilovysk, Donetsk, on the signs of criminal offence, the violation envisaged in part three of article 425 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the provision of public access to information on the consequences of criminal offence. Please consider my statement on the Supreme Council rostrum to be an official appeal to the Attorney General's Office, to the Military Prosecutor's Office, to the President's Office, and to the colleagues of the National Deputies for the restoration or creation of a new commission or for the restoration of work and the transfer of criminal materials to the Ilowaysk court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u97	Thank you. Papieu Michaelo gives the word to Arthur Martovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u98	Dear voters, dear colleagues, in my speech, I would like to convey to you the problems that have resulted from the so-called budgetary decentralization. As an example, we would like to point out the city of Pavlovgrad in the Dnipropetrovsk region, where, as of February 2015, internally displaced persons from the ATO zone began to be placed in a transit town of modular type. The transit town in Pavlovgrad is the largest of the five in the area. Nearly 1.2 million dollars were spent from the city’s budget on assembly work in the construction of the town. In addition, however, the city spends its maintenance costs, providing financial support to the transit city balancemaker, particularly in order to compensate for his losses in connection with the exemption of families from the cost of utilities, and in order to compensate for the losses of the payer in connection with the town’s living limit of 150 dollars per month. On December 31, 2015, 366 people lived in a transit town. In 2015 alone, the town’s balance sheet was provided with financial support from the city’s budget for damages sustained by 748 thousand dollars. Thus, the burden of maintaining transit towns for internally displaced persons was placed on the territorial communities of 7 cities in Ukraine, including the city of Pavlovrad. Yet, the city community has accepted it and has borne the cost of keeping people in difficult situations. Nevertheless, I believe that the problem of maintaining transit towns can not only be a local problem but must be solved at a national level. In view of this, appropriate changes should be made to the legal and regulatory provisions governing the social protection of internally displaced persons. At present, the provision of monthly targeted assistance to internally displaced persons to cover housing expenses, including housing and utilities approved by the Cabinet of Ministers (505), is determined by a total amount without determining the proportion of housing services that does not allow objectively to determine the amount they are able to pay for housing services, such as those in transit towns. Thus, taking into account the above, I demand that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine make appropriate changes to the Decree of 01.10.2014, number 505, "The manner in which the provision of appropriate address assistance, including the payment of housing and utility services, is to set up a separate amount of assistance to cover the cost of living and the amount of assistance for housing and utilities. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Sergey Rudik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u100	Respectable Society! Dear voters! Since the 198th constituency, it's you that I've been addressing my words first. Today, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Finance Minister of Ukraine, Mrs. Natalia Jaresko herself decided on her own initiative to say a few words about the fate of future vocational and technical education. In particular, she said that Ukraine’s Finance Ministry would monitor the situation in the first quarter of this year and in the most painful cities of regional importance, other areas where today’s PTUšniki are studying, sorry for slang, where subsidies will be directed. I can tell you, Mrs. Natalia, that the most painful city, particularly in the Cherkas region, to my conviction, is the city of Smila, where there are 68,000 citizens today. This city, which, unfortunately because of the circumstances I don't understand, has become an experiment or a test site for government experiments. Last year it was eliminated or optimized as it's fashionable to call two specialties from 17 across the country, imagine 17 in all of Ukraine, and two in the city of Smil. Last year, the price of optimization was 18 million dollars, which had to be looked for half of the local budget. Because the Ministry of Health, led by a well - known minister, promised to make up for these costs and paid only half the sum and nine in the local budget. Where were the children of Smiley City Council nine million dollars? There was, of course, where. The same is true this year. The Smilian City Council, as a city of district importance, found nearly 12 million dollars in the city’s budget so as not to let the tradespeople die. Let us examine the real situation. In fact, in the past year, four PTUs were reorganized in the city of Smila — the fourth, the fifth, the eleventh, and the twelfth. They have established a separate training, retraining, and education center. There are 756 students. Do you know who's studying there? There's 41 orphans, 65 boarding school children, 21 half-poor children, 24 of many-child families, and 49 of the underprivileged. This is, well, the reality of today. And in order for them to continue to learn, to gain this average education chain in our country, these funds had to be sought. What, there weren't 11 million people, almost 12 people could point to the elevators in Smila? To the roads, to improve the housing fund? Of course you can. Unfortunately, that's not the answer we're looking at today. Take this opportunity, in 15 seconds, I'll say, "Dear Stones, tomorrow at 12 o'clock, I'll see you in the town of Stone of Cherkas and the braves at 9 o'clock on Monday." Come, let's talk about PTU, about wages, about pensions and about Arsenija Petrovich, which we hope to see here on February 16th of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u101	Popov conveys the word of Silantiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u102	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lazko. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Sadly, I have to say that in the last year of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the situation of Ukrainian sports has steadily deteriorated. By the end of 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had adopted amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code, which had abolished land benefits and real estate taxes for physical and sports objects. The possibility of such benefits is given to local authorities. I have repeatedly, including from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, warned of the possible consequences of such a decision. So to this day, I have a very unique statement that the land areas that were used as sports bases in Soviet times are, under various official, rather decent reasons, simply admired by people who have an influence on the local council's organs, the so-called local princes. The scheme is well - known: these objects are artificially reduced and then exposed to privatization by a seemingly more efficient owner, later modified for target use, and commercial objects are being built on the site of these sports objects. And all these raids take place under the cover of local authorities, law enforcement agencies. Such incidents are now taking place in Kiev, Kiev, the Vishgrad region, Dnipropetrovsk, Herson, and other cities. And it's not just the territory, it's the fate of the children, it's the fate of the coaches, who have no chance of continuing their training. Instead, there are no alternative areas for sports activities or the use of state-private partnership mechanisms that are successfully used throughout the civilized world. There is no initiative from the Ministry of Profiles to solve this situation. This, as I said before, will lead to the complete destruction of the sports infrastructure that remains. For a year, my colleagues and I spent trying to get these benefits back on the legislative level. Bill 2068 was supported by professional society. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, the Tax and Customs Committee. And we very much hope that it will be introduced into the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll give you a simple example, and now the flu epidemic is in the country. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, three million people with influenza have already been registered. This morning 155 flu - related deaths Quarantine has been discovered in schools, children are unsupervised, and alcohol, smoking, and drug addiction await them in the streets. The Radical Party faction Lazko insists on improving the health of the nation, investing in the future generation, is one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u103	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u104	This is the priority development of the country-state and this is the basis of Ukraine's healthy economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u105	Thank you. Curvature passes the word Kodola. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u106	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. Today we've talked about vocational and technical education on a number of occasions, there was an hour of questions to the government, where we also raised questions. Because Ukraine’s State Budget Act for this year envisions the cost of training workers in vocational schools, which is to finance them from local budgets. In the Chernigiv region, which I represent as the majority of the people's deputies, there are 20 such vocational institutions. And the situation is that even in the local budgets where they can be financed, it's not going to work, because they're not transferred to municipal property and they're now in state property, so they can't be financed from local budgets. Also, in the system of vocational education, students acquire not only a job but also a full - time secondary education. The current funding arrangement for general secondary education in general schools and colleges provides for the budget of the city of education subsidy at the expense of the state budget. Children from the districts are taught in such institutions, not just the cities of regional importance, where funding is budgeted. There are no local budgets for this kind of cost. Unfortunately, today we have not received a clear and adequate response from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education, regarding the fate of vocational education. That's why today, the National Deputies from various factions headed by the Head of the Committee on Education and Science, Lilia Grinevich, have registered and prepared two bills amending the budget of Ukraine and the Budget Code, which will allow us to support the local budgets and preserve the vocational institutions. That's why I'm addressing all my fellow national MPs today from different factions next week to support these two important bills for the preservation of vocational and technical education in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u107	Thank you. Vladimir Parasuk gives the word to Igor Lucenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian voters! Dear Ukrainian people! Unfortunately, we are now seeing a further outflow of our monetary unit: bracelets. In the last month, it dropped about 7 percent. Many economists, particularly the ex-Minister of Economics, particularly one of the deputy heads of the National Bank's government, said that in some ways Russian banks might be involved. Either way, it has to answer the National Bank of Ukraine. Today, silence is from Nazbank, silence is from Gotari. I would like to draw attention to this and say that such silence is shameful. In general, Pottery’s policies at the National Bank do not seem to provide for any protection against the hybrid attack of Russia. Because the more thesis on the alleged disadvantage of economic sanctions on financial institutions, the aggressor is, unfortunately, the official position of Natzbank. It's a disgrace! Friends! Russian capital is certainly dangerous. First of all, banks actually take hostages of our investors, so they take money from them, so investors have to be loyal to these financial institutions. Second, Ukrainian businesses take loans from them, and they get into economic dependence. I will give you an example of Wneštorgbank, who funded a crime scene near a monument of global significance on the street of Honchar in Kiev. As a result of this, the building of the monument is being destroyed, Westorgbank continues to finance it. And judge with the Ukrainians. After all, the widespread presence of signposts in Russian Russian-language Russian banking logos in the back of the Ukrainian army is a hybrid war tool. He demoralizes the fighters because they have questions about why some are doing business with the Russians and others are dying on the front. Perhaps this is a question that needs to be addressed to both Gontareva and Nazbank. It usually translates responsibility to anyone, to the government, to the PNZB, to the Supreme Council, but I would like to quote a legislative act that clearly shows that Gontarievy has all the tools to impose sanctions, including the provision for the use of Nitzbank's influence over the violation of banking legislation, foresees that the NBU applies measures in the case of the application of foreign sanctions. I mean, if somewhere on a foreign government site or a central bank there's information about the imposition of sanctions on a Russian bank, we, as a National Bank, as a government, have the right to apply sanctions on these financial institutions. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u109	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u110	I would like to remind you, my friends, that Europe and the United States have imposed enormous financial sanctions against the Russian capital. So the question is, why is Gontarev stalling? What's keeping her from doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u111	Bondar Victor, gone. Romanova gives the word to John Krulk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u112	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, especially young people. Today, nearly 100 years old, Ukrainian youths have been reminded by Ukrainian politicians and politicians of the reckless underestimation of the Russian Empire. Like 100 years ago, we have a neighbor who is not just in our territory but who wants to live in a free country. Unfortunately, this is best understood by idealistic youths, who in the 17th century created the Ukrainian Revolution and in the 18th year, volunteers went to Kruth when there were only a few regiments in Kiev. And now, in modern conditions, she has come out to the Jews, and after the Euromaidan, she has volunteered to the east to protect Ukraine’s national independence. I would like to remind you that back then, leaders like Winnichenko and his friends were taking a firm stand against the creation of the Ukrainian army, thinking that no one would threaten us. But instead, when the enemy struck, not them, but the students went to Kruti. Similarly, in Ukraine during ten years of independence, the Ukrainian army and the army were systematically destroyed, and when the enemy struck, not the regular army rose immediately, but the volunteer battalions, which helped the new authorities reform and create a Ukrainian army that should protect Ukrainian borders. I would like to remind you that in Ukraine there is an international day of studentism, and this day few remember, but this is the day when the Hitlerites shot students who left Prague to defend their freedom. And where someone still supports the so-called Student Day on the day of the barbarians. In fact, it's Russian college day. It seems to me that the time has come when we can help the socially active part of young people light up with their energy the rest of their peers. Ukrainian students who died under the Krutami are not only worthy of crowns on this day but are long overdue to establish January 29, the Day of Ukrainian Studenthood. This day is necessary for all modern - day youths who receive higher education to remember that we have a neighbor who, under various political regimes, has always come to our land. This is to be a day of memory. The day of solidarity of all the students. When, as at 30 years of age, most of the Ukrainian students in the free world took one day’s stand on that day, thus saving the cost of thousands of volunteers today passed on to Ukrainian political prisoners and to Ukrainian affairs. Obviously, my speech should be considered a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the President's Administration to make January 29 really the Day of Ukrainian Studenthood, and we honored each year, including, and in this way, the solidarity of the students.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u113	Thank you, colleagues. Krivenko gave it to you. Yeah? A word? Yes. Krivenko passed the word, well, Evtushka, yes. And this is the last performance, two minutes before the end of the performance. And that's why I'm announcing it in advance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u114	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. A great deal has been mentioned in this room today by my colleagues, Mrs. Jaresko, why. Because, indeed, the document that was considered in this room, which is called the Ukrainian State Budget Act, is completely unbalanced. And the income part, sorry for the slang, puffed up. Well, the costs that are directed at the mainstream are also very low. I'm going to say that the state budget subsidy to district health budgets provides us with approximately 7-8 months of maintenance. But given that the minimum wage is going to increase by 12.3 percent right now, that's only going to be 6 months. I don't think that's acceptable. What does the Cabinet of Ministers want? The minister’s office clearly wants to cut down on health facilities. And in those villages, perhaps where a secondary medical link is provided, of course, there should be a reduction. Of course, such measures must be taken to avoid such hospitals. Clearly, it is a disgrace. I also asked Mrs. Jaresko about the fact that professional workers, taking into account all the Declarations on Decentralization, should unite the territorial communities, the villages and allow workers to obtain, our young people to acquire, and to obtain jobs. What is really going on? In fact, it's very different. There's also no expenditure on vocational education. They are transferred from the state budget to local budgets. What do we see in the Plains region? In general, cities such as Dubno and Ostrig do not have the slightest ability from their own budgets to maintain these facilities. It is urgent that we review these bad decisions that have been made by Parliament. There is an immediate need to anticipate funding for these institutions if we are talking about development, if we are talking about our young people, if we are talking about employment, and if we're talking about what we're going to need in the workplace when the villages come together, when the investors come in, when these lands have to be processed. That's where you're going to have to look for tractors, bulldozers, and all the other jobs. I'm also going to mention the city of Sarna, where there's a higher vocational and technical school of 22, where I've been given the usual address, and the agrarian license, which also has, given the formula, the model, has to be united. That's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-01-29-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time taken for performances in the "Virgin" has been exhausted. At this I announce the next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded. The evening meeting of the Supreme Council is adjourned. And I want to remind you that our next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, February 2, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you. Good-bye. Until we meet again.
