ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Good morning again, dear colleagues. Please register. [[10:03:16]] There are 341 deputies, respected colleagues. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Maria Mikolayovna Ionova. Let's welcome our colleague on his birthday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, my friends, May 25th will forever enter our history as the day of the liberation of the Hero of the Ukraine of the Savachenko Hope. I had the honour of being on Maidan on the hot days and nights of Midan, and all of us, all of Ukraine and all of the world's Ukraine, and the whole free world, watched as Nadia Savchenko proudly stood up for the honor of Ukraine and the spirit of Ukraine, being captured by the Russian invaders. It became a symbol, an unbreakable symbol of Ukraine at a time when Ukraine was on fire when Ukraine was fighting against a Russian invader. For over 700 days, her struggle, the struggle of all of us, and in this struggle, Ukraine and Nadia Savchenko won a decisive victory. And today we have the privilege of welcoming her to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And I invite you to the words of Hero of Ukraine, self-defense fighter of Maidan, Idar, an unbreakable fighter for Ukraine's will, Nadia Savchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! Heroim Slava! Thank you. I'm Ukraine's national deputy Savechenko Nadia, and I'm back on the job. I want to thank all the Ukrainians who fought for me. I want to thank all the Ukrainians of the world who raised the consciousness of the world and showed them what Ukraine is. I want to thank all the good and decent people of the world who have supported me and Ukraine. I want to apologize to the mother of Vadim Pugachev for giving her son his life for my will. I'm sorry I'm alive and your child is dead. I'm back, and I won't let you forget, I won't let you forget -- who's standing there, sitting in these Supreme Council chairs -- those guys who started going to bed for Ukraine in Midan and continue to die for it in Donbas. [[Applause]] I won't let you forget, because if any of you were at the cemetery, you could feel what I felt: they're not lying, they're standing with us -- they're behind Ukraine. And they won't be in the grave until we get the Ukraine that they died for and we dream about. [[Applause]] I'll tell you that nothing is forgotten, no one is forgotten, nothing is forgiven. And the people of Ukraine will not let us sit in these chairs if we betray them. Ukraine is above all else! And for us, for those of us sitting in this room, Ukraine is higher than the lives of each of us. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] Heroim Slava! I'm in the Supreme Council, I'm taking my portrait from the rostrum and replacing it with the faces of the boys who will look you in the eye, who are still sitting in the back of the enemy, fighting our Ukraine, so that every time you speak on this platform, you can look them in the eye and realize that you have no right not to pull the last of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized members of the MPs and groups. And, colleagues, please record the factions, please. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u4	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Those of the deputies who worked in the districts last week, I think they'll agree that as long as we're here in Kiev, we're making an effort to raise Ukraine, and also to share powers at a political moment, and society is feeding news from a different place, people are growing in despair, despair, and the main question is, how do we survive? People feel like they're victims. And what is called reforms here in Kiev is seen as a duty and even punishment and not known for what. People hold on to the air and actually don't believe the country they live in, and that's very bad. The main fear that afflicts people is the fear of getting sick, because that's equivalent to the fact that a person who's sick has no help, no family, no family, and he's doomed to death. I'll give you one example. Three months ago, I was approached by a woman who was 45 years old from the village of Red, the will of the Novograd Wallin district of Žitomir. She wrote that the cost of treatment was insufficient, three operations were carried out, chemotherapy was required, and there was no need for it. "And I want to live, I'm only 47 years old." On March 3, I looked everywhere I could, tried to reach out to the Ministry of Health, the district government, the district government. The result was a letter from the district yesterday: The question was stopped in connection with the woman’s death. Such examples can be cited. You can bring countless. Every week, I think, my esteemed colleagues, you'll confirm, during the meetings, right here in the Supreme Council, there are dozens of letters, dozens of letters, and each one of them has a human cry for help. And I have a question, how do many of you know where to go with these letters? You turn around, you write, you call, if they come to the phone, the reaction is zero, at best you get a note listing the instructions as to how to act. Another example, please. There is such a thing in the Novograd Volinsk region of the village of Pishtów, which is on the Kiev-Chop route. The route is fast, stately, and even international. It's already broken down on the walkway.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u6	At this pedestrian crossing, 20 people were killed and killed. Wherever you're going is a zero reaction. The last letter is just a note, and it's linked to the International Monetary Fund when they give the money. And the last. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I appeal to the senior lieutenant Mikhail Evtushka, who had 26 percent of the skin in the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u7	Let me finish 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u8	Parents, who are also participants in the ATO, came to Dnipropetrovsk to the hospital. And they were told by the doctors, "Make a lot of money." The man was protecting the motherland. I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, Wozniak. He's giving the word to Mr. Burbak, the leader of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u10	Good day, Reverend Head, fellow MPs, Ukrainian people! The hope of Savchenko beside us is Ukraine's next victory over the aggressor, another example of the successful struggle of the Ukrainian nation against the enemy and the right to be. Each such small and yet great victory brings irreparable losses to the enemy and brings our common success closer together. The real patriots are not the ones who tear up their embroidery or love their houses. Patriot and statesman, who was not afraid to challenge Putin in his territory, the patriot and the statesman, who left his affairs and became a volunteer, went to the front as a volunteer or fulfilled his duty, the patriot and the statesman, who daily approaches our victory by adopting important state decisions. In this room, we are often hampered by demagogism and irresponsibility. Sweet words and prosecutions are the shortest route to popularity. Ukraine's path to victory in the opposite direction, it's much longer, it's not going to get through. Think of where the Russian platypus would now have gone if everyone were involved in the political market, rather than adopting responsible decisions that allowed for an increase in defence spending of 113 billion dollars, and an increase in payment to our military personnel. Could we count on winning and supporting Western partners if we didn't impose sanctions against the Russian Federation ourselves? trade war against the aggressor and would not prohibit trade in occupied areas. Wouldn't Ukraine have a future if we hadn't ripped the gas jar off the Russian Gazprom for the first time? Would we have reason to expect the punishment of the invaders and the damages to Ukraine if we had not begun the legal persecution of Russia, its supporters in international courts? But the war did not end. The invaders, their puppets, regularly fire at our positions. As always, the enemy ignores all arrangements and uses force diplomacy. In the last week, we lost the most boys since early 2016. We need to increase our commitment to defence and security, and we need to adopt the Law on Confiscation as soon as possible. Money from Yanukovich, who was arrested by the government of Yatsenuk last year, must return to the State budget and work for security. Voting under the Special Confiscation Act and showing who's the real patriot and who's the only one in the TC show can talk about patriotism. [[Applause]] Colleagues! I urge you to forget about populism and to focus on the daily adoption of specific decisions to step by step on the difficult road to victory. Corruption is a major burden on this road. We can't move on without fair justice. We are now approaching the main frontier in the implementation of judicial reform, the lengthy discussions and the search for the right decisions have led us to the final version of the bill on the judiciary and the status of judges, we need to adopt it with a single package of amendments to the Constitution in part of justice. And it was a public, open position of the People's Front when voting for changes to the Constitution in part of the judiciary during the first review. The main one. This decision requires us to have circumstances and a request from society for a fair trial. The foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u11	Give me 15 seconds, please finish. 30 seconds to complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u12	The basis for the decisive changes is: First. Simplification of the structure of the judicial vertical and the elimination of unnecessary links along with the release of corrupters and darmoids in judicial manteries. The other one. No acting judge will be able to continue his work without going through tough competitions or qualifying exams. Some 20 percent of the judges are now refusing to undergo re-tests, some of them are indisposed, some of them are ignoring the process because they know they will not pass property or qualify. But they won't turn. Change.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u13	Give me 15 seconds. All right, everybody, let's get down to speed, folks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u14	But they won't turn. The changes in legislation have led to a substantial formation of the judiciary, an update of the judicial corps of experienced lawyers and lawyers of scientists. The main controller of the process will be the public, which will be actively involved in the selection of candidates for competition and activity control.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we ask you to respect the regulations. Please welcome the leader of Bondar Victor's Rebirth Group to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u16	Thank you, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. I think everyone sees and understands that the work of the Parliamentary Coalition, the government's work today is more like a fire extinguisher. Every day we live literally out of wheels and each day we form an order of the day session of Parliament, an order of the day of government meetings, coming out of the needs that have arisen today and are burning us today. The Rebirth Party has repeatedly called for a second to third month in a row: let's stop, let's sit down, let's think about what we want to do for these six months next. We demand that there be a solution to the problem systems, we demand that there be a revised budget, which should be adopted a new tax base at the same time as the customs base, along with the new budget code, which will allow for the formation of a budget for 2017 entirely on a new basis, where production, factories, business, small and medium-sized businesses will be at the top of the agenda. We see a number of systemic problems in every field today. Speaking of state disease today, we know that the Ministry of Infrastructure is a blood system, the Ministry of Energy is a state's nervous system. Only in these two areas can we judge what is happening in the state. And there are terrible things happening in the state. The accounts of NAEC "Energotoma" are blocked, and for today 7 of the 15 reactors have been stopped for long-term capital and medium-term repairs. The Ministry of Infrastructure approves a structure that does not respond at all to what is happening in transport in a context that does not respond to the real life of today’s transporters. There are substitutes for corruption, for Euro-integration, for privatization, for machine managers, but there are no people in charge of the maritime sector, for aviation, for road safety, for motorists, for road construction, and so on, and there are no profile substitutes. We see imbalances in the budget. There is no money available for local housing subsidies for people today. We've spent 35 billion, and we're essentially missing 24. We see that the local budgets are practically fully charged with the tasks that the state budget would now have to carry out. It's about what they've been given away from them: maintenance of vocational education, education, medical facilities, and so on. So essentially, under decentralization, it's like they gave money, at the same time they took a huge amount of money because they were given authority that they didn't even expect, to run those businesses they didn't count on. In fact, there is no money in the local budgets again. So we're talking about stopping, holding a coalition council, group leaders with the government, sitting down to plan the budget for next year, making changes to the budget this year. And we have three weeks left for all of these problems. We're talking about what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u17	Give me 30 seconds to finish. Please, everyone, respect the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u18	We're talking about going to a production meeting, and we're talking about loading up our own Ukrainian businesses. The companies Dnipropetrovština, Kharkivščina, Odessa, Mikolayeva are able to make powerful orders and jobs for Energoatum, for transport infrastructure. And what we're talking about is that on the basis of our own production, we can get the economy out of crisis, create jobs and fill budgets, not walk with an extended hand in front of the IMF for 1.7 billion, and then everything will be in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u19	Thank you. Please welcome Yuri Boyko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u20	Dear Mrs. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine is now experiencing a very difficult period of responsibility. Every day, we are witnessing the destruction of the economy under loud slogans, the destruction of the future of the country. This is done by those who promised prosperity and stability to people yesterday, those who spoke about reform and overcoming corruption. For two years, we have heard puffos talk from the authorities, but people’s lives are getting worse every day. It bankrupts business, it closes businesses. Battles continue in the eastern part of the country. Peace talks only move under pressure from European partners. There is cynical lawlessness in politics. The government stubbornly pushes Ukraine to collapse. The Ukrainian people do not want such a future. We need to get Ukraine back on the road to safe and stable development, and we need to learn to live together again. We have a clear and clear plan of action. The country needs to re-load power and a new socio-economic course. The main goal is to increase jobs and the wages of citizens. This is possible only through policies that support the real economy. For six months, parliament cannot succeed in amending the Tax and Budget Code, enabling farmers, small and medium-sized businesses to be supported. For two years, population income is not indexed to inflation. The budget has the necessary resources for this, enough political will. The authorities must stop the tariff genocide against Ukrainian citizens. The government has to lower the cost of energy to the level of people's income rather than imported prices. Payment of benefits and subsidies should be transparent and open. This must be a real, targeted and transparent aid from the State to the people. And the last. We need to speed up the implementation of the Minsk Accords. Specific steps are needed in areas of conflict and elections under Ukrainian law. The experience of these war conflicts speaks only of one thing: a compromise and a willingness to work together for a peaceful future. People need to return from war and be assured of their own future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u21	Thank you. Please welcome Yegor Sobolev from Self-Help to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u22	This week, as a parliament, we will begin to consider laws that should regulate the activities of Ukrainian judges. Self-help reminds us that last year Parliament had already approved the Fair Court Act and then its initiators said it was a decision. We need to get every judge tested, and we need to find out who they are, find people who don't work for justice, and everything will be fine. What's happening right now is everybody's seeing and feeling on their own. The bribers and the people who are far from justice are quietly undergoing a so-called retestation, getting green light from the same people who say today, "Let's adopt new laws and then we'll get new judges and new justice." I want to remind Parliament, and I want to remind the Speaker of Parliament, and to all the leadership of the Supreme Council, in December, we were granted the release of Judge Tatkov. This is the judge who led the Supreme Economic Court in Victor Yanukovich’s day. Ask the businessmen, ask hundreds of destroyed businesses, what was then the Supreme Economic Court under the leadership of Judge Tatkova. Today, May ends, and Judge Fathers continues to work, for the Supreme Council has not even considered his release. Why? The rhetorical questions that everyone here knows the answers to, because both the country's leadership and the Parliament's leadership are currently covering up bribe judges. What does Self-Help see? First. We suggest that when we consider these laws, we anticipate the immediate creation of a specialized anti-corruption court. We need to create an oasis where we can get decent, principled judges. We need a place where senior leaders of the state can stand before the law, not stay above the law. The other one. We believe that in this specialized anti-corruption court there are bound to be foreign judges, judges who are actually currently judging bribes in the United States, in the European Union, in other successful countries where justice has been built. And the last. We've talked about this with colleagues and partners in Washington and Brussels, for these anti-corruption judges, we need real investigators and prosecutors, the FBI, the OLAF group that is investigating corruption in the European Union, to help the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the new Anti-Corruption Court to break up bribes. Self-help suggests that we adopt this decision right this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u23	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Olga the Mantis is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u24	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, dear brothers! Ukraine loses its heroes every day on an advanced one, but these days an absolutely unprecedented event — an event that was not to take place in peacetime and was not to take place in Ukraine. I'm talking about a fire in a nursing home for the elderly. Each of these 17 old men who burned alive in the fire was someone's father, someone's son, someone's grandfather, someone's grandmother. And I am now addressing you, from all the deputies of the Peter Prashenko bloc, from the President of Ukraine, asking to stand up and honor the memory of our dead elderly for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Light memories, and let the earth be their downpour. And let the commission that will study the causes of death and death draw such conclusions as to ensure that the homes of the elderly who are to be provided by our State, whether private or state, are never to be set on fire in these nursing homes. And I am now addressing all Ukrainian citizens with understanding and the need to remind us that our parents with you are the people who raised us, gave us life, gave us education. And our job with you is to make sure that Ukrainian older people live at least 80 years. And I'm addressing all those deputies present who are controlling the work of the law enforcement commission, security, joining in the work and meeting of the commission that will take place today at six o'clock. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u25	Thank you. Who's it gonna be from the Fatherland faction? Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u26	Good afternoon! I think there is no doubt that the country has been brought into a deadlock: economic, political, social, financial. No one's arguing about it anymore, everyone understands that. And we know very well that cooperation with the International Monetary Fund is needed in order not to speculate further on what I'm going to say. It is necessary, but cooperation with the International Monetary Fund needs an intellectual, smart, balanced and not at the expense of the poorest people that the budget needs to be balanced. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I announced that the Ministry of Finance's medium-range project has been passed on to us, and I emphasize, a draft Memorandum of Cooperation with the International Monetary Fund defining tasks to be done either before or after the deadlines defined. I emphasize that this is a project that has not yet been signed by either the President or the government. But right now, we need to talk about it publicly. We put the draft of this Memorandum on the Internet, it is. Today we're going to put it on the site again, but I would like to draw your attention to some of the points in this Memorandum that are incompatible with the country's proper development strategy. And first of all, points 31-A and 31-a (small) predict that there is an increase in the split tariffs for thermal energy to 100 percent of the cost based on the full parity of imports from May 1st. This is even worse than anticipated by the previous IMF Memorandum of Understanding, i.e. the re-increasing of tariffs for heat. The next item is the re-increasing of tariffs for gas parity and imports. This is certainly unacceptable. Next. We're taking off the retirement benefits for those who still have these benefits after the Tighipian transition to the 60-year retirement age. So again, the poorest and the most vulnerable are chosen. Then we see that there is no real index of pensions and wages. 5 and 7 percent is not index. It is very painful that our farmers are finally being destroyed, that the payment system for small farms is being cleared, and I ask the attention of the hall, it is stated that in June 2016 the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land will be abolished – paragraph 35-d. And that means that behind the back in society, behind the back in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u28	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u29	discuss strategic things that actually destroy the resources that the state has in such a context. Privatization during a war for a penny and a lot of other things that are unacceptable. I call on the government, the President, the Parliament to establish a public, transparent work immediately, each item must be harmonized and discussed. And our team will no longer be allowed to abuse the country! Stop it. You're on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u30	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u31	Let's get started! First, defray the economy, enter a tax not on retirement, but on your income, on dividends. You don't do that. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u32	So, all the factions came out? And the Radical Party hasn't come forward yet. A radical party, are you all a group? Scary? The head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u33	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! First of all, on behalf of the Radical Party faction, I would like to welcome the release of our colleague, Hope Savichenko, this is a great event for all Ukrainians. Nadia, you have been an example to many men of how to be courageous in Russian videos! At the same time, however, it is important to remember that dozens and perhaps hundreds of well - known and unknown Ukrainian patriots continue to be held in Russian prisons. And the task of Ukrainian power and, of course, the help of the international community is to do everything possible to free them. Just like the release of Ukrainian patriots in Ukrainian prisons. [[Applause]] I want to point out that the Russian Pearcemen were put in Russia, and the fighters who detained them are sitting in Ukrainian prison, that's justice. As we returned to our rams, a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund required us to publish the text of the memorandum for two weeks. We were told he was gone. We found out that people gave us this document -- a draft letter of intent and a memo on the 45th page of President Prashenko's signatures, Prime Minister Groysman, Minister of Finance Daniluk and Head of the Nutzbank of Honduras. Notice, three of the four subscribers are offshore characters. They have offshores, they don't pay taxes, they take billions out of Ukraine and they rob Ukrainian citizens. What is this memorandum about? This is a memo on the demobilization of Ukraine, not the deligarchization, not the de-absorbing, but the de-absorbing of Ukraine. Schools close, hospitals close, medical educational workers shorten, retirements are raised, land sales are set up, gas tariffs are raised, farmers are taxed, small and medium-sized businesses are taken away, and the moratorium is abolished. I'm asking, who gave you the right to sign this disgrace?Oh, my God! I asked the President and the Prime Minister yesterday: You have no right to do this: trade in Ukraine, trade in land, trade in Ukrainian souls and Ukrainian human beings in exchange for a few billion dollars. Steal less! Create, bring money, pay taxes, and no credit will have to be taken. Therefore, the Radical Party faction continues to block the parliamentary rostrum, requiring the creation of a commission of inquiry into corruption and offshors of President Ukraine and its surroundings. We will not leave until justice is achieved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order to inform both the Ukrainians and the Chamber, I would like to inform you that yesterday we had a council of all the heads of factions, the President, the Prime Minister, on whom we found out -- attention! – that the document to which factions' heads appeal does not exist from the government. I would like to emphasize that there is no such document. I just wish that we from the main rostrum of the country, by proclaiming some of the speeches, were based on the facts that exist, and that we should not engage in the fornication of citizens who listen to us, who hear us. To clarify this situation, I will give Irina Heratchenko another minute. And then the minute is Parasuce. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, indeed, yesterday more than three hours had passed since the meeting of the President of Ukraine, the government along with the leaders of all parliamentary factions. And several issues, such as judicial reform, changes to the Constitution, and leaders of several factions, were discussed as if there was some kind of existing memorandum. And frankly, it is now surprising that the speeches that are now taking place, because both the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine have stated that there is no such document in nature, that it is a fake, that there is no signature anywhere. And by the way, one of the speakers at least pointed out that there are no signatures, and the other, with stubbornness, worthy of a better application, continues to claim that there are signatures that are such a document. What's more, the Prime Minister is very loud, he's unfortunately not here right now, but I think if we're going to have such a turnout on Friday as today, everyone will be able to ask questions directly, publicly, with the Prime Minister's cameras, whether there's any discussion about the possibility of a pension increase in the 16th year, and the Prime Minister from this rostrum will say the same thing that he said to the faction leaders yesterday: no increase in the 16th year will be, and until the 17th must be lived, Mr. Oleg, if you don't destroy this country thanks to your populist actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u36	Thank you. Mrs. Irina said "Mr. Olege," we have an infinite number of Olegs in the room, and we don't know who she meant, we don't know who she meant. Dear colleagues, one minute now, Vladimir Parasuk. And if you'll all come into the room, then we'll move on to the agenda. Please, Vladimir Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u37	I now ask all the Lviv deputies to forget about politics, if possible, to join this rostrum so that Lviv and the whole area can see that we are the only ones. On the night of the 28th to the 29th, it's probably the hundredth time that the Gribovic garbage dump, which is located in the Jovkovsky district, has been closed for a very long time. At the scene of the fire’s destruction, the MCSNIs went out, fighting the fire all the time. And yesterday morning at 7am, they put out this fire, but there were four other people at the scene who were looking at the territory, and there was no more fire, which was all eliminated. And there was a terrible tragedy: there was a shift, almost half the garbage dump came upon them. Right now, right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u38	Please be able to complete one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u39	Now these guys are under these mountains of garbage. You know we don't need an ATO. In our country, we lose people from the inaction and irresponsibility of politicians. All the deputies from Lviv, I think all the deputies here are for justice, not for politics. I'm asking the Head of the Supreme Council, he's also from Lviv, to order the establishment of the TSK on this tragedy so that we can find the guilty. We demand that it never works again and that the garbage is never exported to the Gribowitz garbage dump because it is two kilometers away from Lviv. And it's over. We will not honor the memory of the boys because they have not yet died. We still have hope, and we pray that they will be saved, and they will return to their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. The creation of the TSC is a special procedure. I'm asking you to form the apparatus as a parliamentary request, so that as many law enforcement agencies as possible can join in solving this tragedy that took place in Lviv. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please, and please come into the hall and continue our work. I want to remind you that last plenary week, when we finished our work on Thursday, we weren't able to get to the point where we got to the point where we had to withdraw our pension tax. Then we had an alternative Bill 4316 in our agenda, and from the rostrum I asked the authors of the bill to postpone its consideration so that we could make a decision on the withdrawal of pension taxes, which is extremely important for all Ukrainians. Then the drafters of the bill, Julia Timoshenko agreed to move it, and then we agreed that he would be the first to stand in the order of the day of the next plenary week. I'd like to point out that there's no committee decision on it, and he stood as an alternative. But nevertheless, I suggest we look at it now. And, colleagues, we have a very difficult agenda, we have an extremely large number of bills, including those needed for cooperation with the IMF, including drug purchases. And I would ask you, colleagues, today there are many of our deputies so that we can work as effectively as possible. In particular, I would now like to propose a brief procedure at the request of the Committee on Budgets, and I very much ask my fellow deputies to support me in this proposal. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs and support the consideration of Bill 4316's draft procedure. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? So I'm voting on draft Law 4316 on a reduced procedure. Mr. Igoru, please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Colleagues, we vote. [[10:48:13]] For a hundred and Not everyone's in the hall yet. I'm asking you to concentrate, I see you haven't arrived, I can see the signals. I ask you to concentrate, I'll put it to the vote again. Colleagues, when they raise questions on the Conciliation Council, that we don't get to certain issues, we don't get to the point where an hour goes into one bill, and it's just not realistic. I ask you very much to concentrate once again, and I once again put to the vote a motion for a brief motion for draft Law 4316. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Short-term procedure, 4316. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[10:49:19]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for having endured the word he has taken, and in connection with the transposition of Bill No. 4016, he asked this first question today. This is a bill that is extremely important to the country. You know how the 2016 budget was adopted. You know, the second year, in 2015, we took the budget at four o'clock in the morning without a budget, there was one cover, and it was actually a big and, in my opinion, low-quality funding. And that's why right now, our faction, after the budget for 2016 was adopted, we brought together a special working group of high-level professionals: financiers, economists, social professionals -- and we studied this budget for 2016. And it turns out that he actually has more serious mistakes, and this is about the standard of living of people. You know that by methodology, the minimum standard of living is approved. This budget has practically ruined all laws; it has grave arithmetic errors. In addition, the key social costs that people today need were unaccounted for. For example, it's completely forgotten and lost the funding of vocational and technical education, and today, for a month and a half, that's enough money in the local budget, and it's really going to be destroyed by the entire system of vocational and technical institutions. Second, children were deprived of 1-4 minimum breakfast classes. We have an extremely poor people today, and when children have taken away this miserable glass of milk and biscuits.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u42	One minute. Julia Volodymyrna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u43	Instead of the faction. Okay? Yeah. That's why I want to emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u44	Julia Volodymyrna, well, two minutes, but your faction is not speaking. Okay. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u45	Children today can't even drink that glass of milk. There were reduced expenses for financing operations for children with disabilities, including children with cerebral palsy. Deaf children were deprived of even the last penny. Help for children in low - income families was almost cancelled. This bill, which was adopted as a budget, is practically terrible and needs immediate review. We've made a bill that you're holding in your hands right now. This bill is balanced, I emphasize, with income and expenditure, it completely removes all these flaws. And we propose that this Law 4316 be adopted now in the first reading so that the government, together with Parliament, together with all the committees in the field, will start a discussion on addressing the terrible budget errors of 2016. Everyone who was protected lost this protection in one way or another: Chernobyl, Afghans, pensioners, disabled persons, and ATOs. I'm asking you to read first. Finally, the new government, the new Parliamentary leadership, can unite, and finally bring the country’s key decisions to Parliament. I know that Peter Prashenko's Block and the People's Front have been given a command to block this bill just because it's from Fatherland. But I'm talking to the deputies right now, think about those people who needed immediate help, and now a lot of them are out of their lives, because this law hasn't been voted out for three months. I ask you to vote in favour on the first reading and continue to send a joint effort to Parliament, to the government and, without violating the budget balance, to adopt a professional bill that will review social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u46	The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budgets, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone. Alexander Gorbunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u47	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! In view of the fact that the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration came only before the day before, the Committee on Budget Affairs did not consider the bill. GNEU commented on the bill that it is necessary to draw the Government’s conclusion on the relevance and feasibility of the projects’ expenditure. In doing so, GNEU notes that according to the minimum wage and wage laws, the minimum wage and minimum wage should be defined in the Government Budget Act. The Ministry of Finance does not support this bill, noting that there are no real sources of funding for additional budget expenditure. According to the Minfin, only to raise social standards, the need for additional costs is about 59 billion dollars, and in general, more than 70 billion dollars are needed for all the proposed directions. At the same time, the bill does not provide specific proposals for clarifying the income and funding of the State budget to ensure that budgetary indicators are balanced according to legislative requirements. The bill did not provide calculations on the proposed changes, although the Supreme Council Rules required their submission. Thus, the legislative initiative in this edition cannot be implemented and requires further legislative changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Mikola Palamarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u49	Please pass the word to the next one. Please pass the word to the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u50	Baby Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We support the bill proposed by my colleague, Yulia Timoshenko, on social standards. Because if you call those social standards, the government's proposal to raise the minimum wage by 30 dollars to care for a child to six years, if you call it raising social standards from 1 December 2016 to 40 dollars of minimum wage, it's not even social standards, it's not even possible to call taxes, because in this year's budget almost 60 billion dollars per grant. I ask, if there's money in the budget for grants, why don't people give money to raise wages and pensions? If there are 40 billion dollars in the budget to cover the Naftogazu deficit, what prevents wages and pensions from being raised? Why does the government, through its antisocial policy, turn the whole country into beggars and Ukrainians into grant applicants instead of creating conditions for economic development, for overcoming large-scale unemployment, for radical tax cuts, for higher wages and pensions? Instead, what does the government, the president, and the parliamentary, so-called majority of the oligarchs and regions offer? They're offering to raise retirement age, sell land, cut costs, take out children in food schools, deprive citizens of the benefits of public transportation and all the other dragon social standards. I have one question: Will these measures give Ukraine a perspective? Will they solve the country’s problems? Is it possible to fill the pension budget by increasing the retirement age to 100 years? No, no, not again. Because when millions of people do not work, when they are unable to earn a piece of bread, they do not have the ability to pay contributions to the Pension Fund and, as a result, do not earn a pension. So I urge you to stop bullying the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u52	Thank you. Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u53	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The faction of the Opposition Block will naturally support this bill. But it is wrong to say that this bill is balanced. It is economically unbalanced, and the balance mentioned by the author of the bill is that raising social standards will be achieved through an additional issue of 12 billion dollars by the National Bank of Ukraine. If you look closely at the comparative table of the bill there, indeed, in the article “The Income Part of the State Budget” would not be 38 billion dollars, but would offer 50 billion bracelets. Thus, raising standards is economically wrong and it is simply that people did not want to examine in detail other expendable articles. Yes, there are consumables in the analysis of Appendix 3 of the State Budget Act, by sequencing some spending parts, it may be right to do so. But to support this bill, we call on the Government and the coalition to adjust certain spending articles of the State budget in order to achieve social standards. The previous speakers here said very loudly that there would be enough abuse of the people, but why did you vote in favour of the State Budget Act 2016 if there were such social injustices? Why would you support him without reading this bill? At night, in the twilight, when the people of Ukraine did not see what was being adopted? But this increase is not significant, and it must also be said, by 10 per cent, the socio-standards were only raised when the inflation rate was 50 per cent. I would like to point out that, in the adoption of the previous State Budget Act, there was an unprecedented issue in the area of over 90 billion, resulting in 50 per cent inflation. Social justice must therefore be promoted by 50 per cent, but it is better than nothing. The bill must therefore be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Krulk's time is up. We agreed that we would give you time to discuss. [[B in m in s a l in]] Julia Volodymyrna, I'll remind you when you spoke, we agreed that you weren't involved in the discussion. All right, line, 30 seconds, please, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, it's really a replica, as the author of the law, my name is Timoshenko, and I'm very clear that there's no copy of the show, that's not true. It's good that factions are going to vote on this as a basis to open up a discussion with the government to finally start a change in the wrong course for destruction and the economy and the social policy of the state. I believe that if we are a parliament, and if we are not buttoning up the government, we are obliged to start this discussion today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I'm putting to the vote a proposal, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's 2016 State Budget (4316) as a basis. You heard the committee's decision. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 4316. Please, who supports the proposal as a basis, please vote. [[11:03:31]] For-163 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can do it in factions. You can do it in public. I held back publicly because there is no committee decision. Dear colleagues, Bill 4316 has been rejected. We go to the next bill, 4482 -- this is the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization -- colleagues -- (for the exemption from military service during the mobilization of close relatives of persons who died during direct participation in the ATO). Not a complicated but very important bill, colleagues. I think he's going to bring the whole room together. And I'm asking you to support his proposal for a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, support the reduced procedure of 4482. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 4482. Short-term procedure. Please vote. [[11:04:53]] For-149 149. We didn't make it. I'll re-set the procedure. If not, we'll go full. I'm once again proposing a reduced procedure of 4482. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 4482. [[11:05:32]] For 158. 158 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u57	Dear friends, dear colleagues! Please support the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization. Today, there are families in Ukraine who have lost two sons. I want to name their names now. These are the Dudka brothers, Vladimir and Yuri. These are the cousins of Laschchenka, Maxim and Artem. These are the cousins of Homieki: Dmitri and Volodymyr. I do not rule out that there are other families who have lost two of their sons. Appropriate changes to the Mobilization Law will allow us to avoid mobilizing boys from those families where they are already dead. And I would also like to introduce this law, I asked you to support, with the possibility that if they were mobilized from those families where they were already dead, they would be demobilized. In case someone wants to mobilize and go to protect our nation, this law does not prohibit this right. So I ask you to support the amendments to Law 4482, which will allow us not to call, not to mobilize members of those families where there are already dead. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u58	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Pashinsk. Vinnik. The committee is Vinick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting had considered the bill and would recommend its adoption as a basis. Indeed, it is possible to get rid of the mobilization of close relatives whose relatives have already died or suffered from an antiterrorist operation, killed in battles for the Ukrainian State. As far as the question is concerned. You know, we don't actually have mobilization right now. It's not because we have a powerful budget for a contractual army. Now we have a number of people who want to join the Ukrainian contractual army. In some parts of the military, there are three people in some brigades. This is because we have increased the military's financial security, starting with 7,000 dollars, this is the minimum amount of money that the Ukrainian military receives. The average wage is 12,000 dollars. At the same time, I would like to point out that if we don't make responsible decisions, if we don't increase the general fund of the Ministry of Defence for 2016, which should be financed, including by Janukovic's assets, which this Supreme Council has not found the political will to return to the budget so far if we don't adopt or appropriate legislation. I remind you that Bill 4057 was rejected by the second-reading committee, a new Minsk bill is now being prepared that deals with the same issue that will allow Janukovic to recover. At the same time today we don't see it in order of day, just as we don't see it during the current week, and we've stopped executing the state defense order, we don't have any funding for repairs. It's in a country where there's a war, respected colleagues. What are we looking at here? Why do we need the IMF when we have our own sources that we can budget today? I'm not talking about what happens today at customs, at DFS, how many VAT abuses, the budget loses between 50 billion and 100 billion dollars, and it's an internal reserve. Why do we have to translate our debt into our grandchildren if we can solve all our problems today?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u60	Thank you, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can vote? There's no one who wants to do the show. And so, dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask you to invite all the deputies into the Hall and prepare for the vote. I asked if there was a need. Colleagues, if there's a common good room and there's no speakers, let's make decisions, work and move on, it'll be responsible, it'll be right. Dear colleagues. Are you guys ready? Dear colleagues, it's the support of our fighters, it's the support of the Ukrainian army, and I very much ask everyone to sit down, prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization on Liberation from Military Service during the mobilization of close relatives of persons who died during a direct involvement in an anti-terrorist operation (4482), on the basis of the committee's proposal, 4482 on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:11:47]] For-286 Decision taken. Does the committee agree that we should vote in general? The committee agrees. Dear colleagues, I'm putting draft Law 4482 in general. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. 4482. Please vote. [[11:12:25]] For 284 The law is passed, the decision is taken. Nadia, with your presence, we've made our work clear. Thank you. So, respectable colleagues, the next draft of the law that we have in the daytime, is also not at all difficult, society. This is a draft decree marking the 75th anniversary of Bogdan Stupka's birth. There is no discussion but the need to make our decision. And I ask you to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and the decision, the registration, the draft decree marking the 75th anniversary of Bogdan Stupka's birth, 4348. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. 4348 is an agenda for decision-making. Vote. [[11:13:31]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we begin our consideration. Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, is there general support for factions to vote? I ask the reporter to express his position. First: I ask for a summary of the procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:14:14]] For 236 Decision taken. And please, Maxim Burbak. I'm inviting you to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I'll be brief. For your consideration, we're proposing a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine marking the 75th anniversary of Bogdan Stupka's birth. On August 27, this year, it would be 75 years from the birth of a prominent Ukrainian cultural figure, the Hero of Ukraine, Bogdan Stupka. Bogdan Stupka was and remains a symbol of modern Ukrainian culture, an outstanding actor with a great letter, and an incredible talent. He has done much for the development of culture, both inside and outside the country, and therefore deserves universal respect and respect. So in order to honor the memory of an outstanding Ukrainian and an artist at the state level, 75 years after the birth of Bogdan Stupka, he proposes to adopt a draft decision. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u62	Honorable colleagues, are they willing to address this issue? There are no willing speakers. So we move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the bill of 75th anniversary of the birth of Bogdan Stupka (No.4348) -- on the basis of the committee's proposal and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote, fellows! [[11:15:49]] For 262 It's been decided. And congratulations to the authors, and welcome to the committee on the adoption of this decision. Now, dear fellows, we are moving on to the question of "inclusion into the agenda of the day session." And I would like to stress once again: it's just the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and I'd like us to be as mobilized and considerate in the voting. I'm going to put in every single bill, and I hope that we'll have an effective, joint and coordinated work. So let's start making a decision. The first one is 4386. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to include salaries for administrative services in the budgets of the unified territorial communities. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the bill: 4386, 4386-1 and 4386-d, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:17:12]] For 252 Decision taken. 4451 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation to improve some of its provisions. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the 4451 session in the agenda, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:17:45]] For 197 4451 - 197 votes. Does it need to be done again, or is it not common will? It doesn't, does it? Next. 4108 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of construction activities (for the marginal amount of fuel involved in the development of the infrastructure of the customer centre for the construction of industrial and agricultural objects). 4108. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session in the order of 4108, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:18:31]] For 186 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Yesterday, a draft of the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges was registered. This bill, a joint working group of all parliaments, has worked very hard for many months. And today we can put it in the order of the day session so that the committee can look at it as soon as possible so that we can move on to reform parliament on Thursday. Dear colleagues, 4734 is about courtship and the status of judges to include in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session the draft Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges (4734). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. Please vote. Please turn on the voting system, please. [[11:19:56]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The following: 4696, 4696-1, 4696-2 is a draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The recommendations that we worked together with the Cox Mission, the Ukrainian Parliamentarians and the Parliamentary of the European Union. 4696, 4696-1 and 4696-2 are bills supported by factions and the Peter Poshenko Block and the People's Front and Self-Help and the Radical Party. It paves the way for the beginning of reforms of the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session 4696, 4696-1 and 4696-2. We're starting a reform of Parliament, dear colleagues. Please support the vote. [[11:21:09]] For 206 Respectful colleagues may not have all heard. I would like to point out once again that we have made a decision here in Parliament that provided for and made commitments to reform the Ukrainian Parliament. Every Friday we talk about the need to change the Rules, and every Wednesday we talk about the fact that we have no deputies in the Hall, and we need to change the organization of our work. And I don't understand how the Ukrainian Parliament might not open the way for reforming Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Dear colleagues, I'm again addressing my colleagues from the Peter Poshenko Block, People's Front, Self-Help, from the Radical Party, which co-authored the bill, with the proposal to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, can we vote? Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the session of 4696, 4696-1 and 4696-2 parliamentary reform. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Colleagues, please vote on the beginning of the reforms. [[11:22:45]] For 202 The decision is not made. Thank you for your support, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we missed Bill 4316.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u63	4117.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u64	4117. 4117 is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the liberalisation of cash accounts (4117). Anyone who supports the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[11:23:58]] For 241 Decision taken. Next: 4419 is a draft Act amending article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. 4419. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[11:24:33]] For 190 190 for. Decision taken, not taken, I'm sorry. The following: 4660, 4660-1 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. Whoever supports its inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote. 4660, please. [[11:25:06]] For a hundred and 194. The decision is not made. There's a demand for factions. Please show the factions. The following: 4661 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of road safety controls and liability for road traffic violations. 4661. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[11:25:49]] For-187 187. The decision is not made. Next: 4257 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" concerning the implementation of pension rights for Ukrainian citizens who live in settlements whose territory the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their powers. 4257. Anyone who supports the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[11:26:29]] For 197 197. The decision is not made. Next: 4668 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of assistance to children of the deceased breadwinner, Social Bill 4668. Those who support the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote. [[11:27:02]] For 257 Decision taken. Next: 4520 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On a system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons". 4520. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:27:34]] For-167 The decision is not made. Next: 4536 and 4536-1 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (4536 and 4536-1). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. Please. [[11:28:13]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Next: 4680 is a draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House. 4680. Anyone who supports the inclusion of it in the agenda of the session, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[11:28:52]] For 226 Decision taken. 4208 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the financing of expenditure on local self-government of villages, villages and cities of regional importance). Who supports this proposal, 4208, please vote. [[11:29:26]] For 247 247 for. Decision taken. Next: 4370 and 4371 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service. The Shkrum People's Deputy Project. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. 4370, 4371. Please vote. [[11:30:00]] For 216 216. I'll put it again because the voices are very close. If there is political will, we can vote again. So I'm going to put the vote again. Whoever supports this proposal, please mobilize as much as possible. And I'm putting the vote again in the agenda for the 4370 and 4371 sessions. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. The Shkrum People's Deputy Project. Please vote. [[11:30:43]] For 227 227 for. Decision taken. Next: 4216 is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to counter the illegal absorption and seizure of farm societies. 4216. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[11:31:23]] For 244 244 for. Decision taken. Next: 4210 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the responsibilities of military personnel and some others. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the agenda of the 4210 session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:32:00]] For 186 The decision is not made. Next: 4507 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State regulation of the production and circulation of tobacco products and electronic cigarettes with a view to reducing their attractiveness (4507). Anyone who supports the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the 4507 session, please vote. Please vote. [[11:32:48]] For 249 Decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, I also ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft regulations that we need to adopt more quickly. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Senate of the French Republic. You know, there's going to be a hearing in Ukraine for a while, and it would be important for us to consider these questions more quickly. So I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill of Appeal to the Senate of the French Republic (4731). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:33:45]] For 241 Decision taken. And another draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, the European Commission, parliaments and the leadership of EU Member States on the introduction by the European Union of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens (number 4730). Therefore, honourable colleagues who support the inclusion in the agenda of draft regulations 4730, please vote. Please vote. [[11:34:30.]] For 247 Decision taken. And, dear fellows, we are passing. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you an important secret. Mr. Ivan, okay? From Thursday the agenda of the session, including the list of drafts to be included in the agenda of the session, was on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Since Thursday, we have had, as a minimum, four meetings to clarify the order of the day session, which was attended by representatives, including your faction. And I don't understand why you suddenly mention that there's no other bill. It's enough for me to look at any stage, at any moment during those five days, and that question would be solved. Dear colleagues, I'm moving on to the next section of the agenda. And once again, I ask you to be more careful when preparing the agenda for the day session, all proposals will be included, which will apply to the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the second question: 3251 (second reading). Colleagues, please concentrate. And I ask you to focus more on our work and less discussion in the hall. We are now considering a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Subsection 5 of the Tax Code of Ukraine to stimulate the development of the market for used vehicles. This is a bill that can actually make cars for Ukrainian citizens much more accessible. This is a bill that many Ukrainians, many of our citizens, are awaiting. And I ask you to be careful when you consider it. And I ask for the utmost attention during the discussion on the subject. So we're going to look at the Draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX, Subsection 5, "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Promoting the Development of the Market in Used Means of Transport, 3251. It's second reading, colleagues, emphasis. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovna. Please. Nina Petrovna, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Allow me to take the position of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee on the drafting of the second reading of the specified draft law. I would like to remind you that this bill, adopted by the Supreme Council on 12 April as a basis, was proposed for a temporary period of 2 years from 1 January 16 to 31 December 17 to reduce the excise duty on transport equipment, which was used 2 to 28 times depending on the type of means of transport and the power of its engine. The rate reduction applies exclusively to light cars under the code of commercial heading 8703 according to the UKTZED. The general position of the bill is to set excise taxes on car use at the rate of excise duty on new cars. The bill received 44 proposals. As a result of the committee’s consideration, it is suggested that the total, in part or in substance, 16 proposals should be rejected, respectively. With regard to the drafting of the bill, which the committee approved and proposed to the Supreme Council to adopt in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. The committee did not support proposals to increase the excise tax rate from 2 to 10 times adopted in the first reading. There is no support for reducing these rates to zero or excluding certain categories of cars from the list of credit taxes. The committee therefore proposes not to change the concept of the project and to accept excise taxes on used cars such as were made in the first reading. Secondly, it is proposed to take into account the technical amendments relating to changes in the numbering of sub-paragraphs of the bill. Third. It's proposed to take into account the proposals for an increase in the time limit for car use rates not until December 31st, 17th, until December 31st, 18th. In addition, it is proposed to take into account the warnings of the cars to which this law applies, namely: to prohibit the importation of premium rates of used cars originating in a country recognised by the occupying State under the law of Ukraine or recognised by the aggressor State; cars manufactured before 1 January 2010; and cars imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by a person for his own use more than one light car during the calendar year. And in the event of a car being estranged within 365 days of the date of registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u66	Thank you. My fellow Members, however, I welcome the very active work of the committee, but we must follow through on all the amendments made by the Ukrainian people's deputies, according to the Rules. Dear colleagues, so I ask the authors to make adjustments to get ready for work. First amendment of the rejected People’s Deputy Petovka Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 9th, Vanat. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 10th, Saints. Don't insist. 11th, Nichiporenko. Don't insist. 12th, Saints. Is the Saint insisting? [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Oleg, are you really celebrating? Don't insist. 13th, Nichiporenko. Don't insist. 14th, Saints. Don't insist. 15th, Nichiporenko. Don't insist. 16th, Saints. Don't insist. 17th, Nichiporenko. Don't insist. 18th, Rybak and Chapinoga. Is he insisting or not? Don't insist on it. Let's move on. 18th, Frolow. Don't insist. 20th, Balitsky. Don't insist. 21st, Vinick. Don't insist. Don't insist. 22nd, Ponomarov. Don't insist. 23rd, Vanat. 24th, Pietovka. Don't insist. 31st, Frolov. Don't insist. 32nd Ponomarov. Don't insist. 34th, Frolow. Don't insist. 35, Lensky. Don't insist. 36th, Fishbuck. Don't insist. 37th, Evlakhov. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. We will now proceed to the decision-making process. The Saint insists. Please turn on the Holy One's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, I ask for confirmation of amendment 33 of the Jurinec People's Deputies regarding the taking of effect of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u68	Name the number you're insisting on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u69	Number 33 for confirmation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u70	Thank you. Thus, the national deputy of the Holy One asks 33 to make an amendment for confirmation. I ask the committee, Nina Petrovna, to comment on this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, 33 amendments apply to the date on which the draft law or law enters into force. 33 The amendment that this law takes effect from the first issue of the month following the month of its publication. In this regard, the Supreme Council’s apparatus, the Chief Legal Authority, also made a remark that it was appropriate to do so on January 1, the following year in order not to violate Article 4 of the Tax Code itself. And in the very text of the law, in the first reading, the standard was set for two years. This amendment increases to two and a half years of law enforcement. That's why we're looking at deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, so you've understood the committee's position, you've understood the substance of the amendment. If the amendment is not confirmed, it's a colleague! – if the amendment is not confirmed in fact, we will not be able to put the bill into effect in the near future. Until January, it will be introduced if we do not confirm this amendment. And, colleagues, I would like to emphasize for the MPs who raise their hands. The authors of the amendments, the authors of the amendments, and I give the floor only to the authors of the amendments. Ready to vote? Colleagues, take all their seats. Can everyone vote? So the position is, the committee, is to confirm Amendment 33 and to support its confirmation, i.e. by voting in favour, we're actually putting this bill into effect from 1 in the next month's number. Have you guys taken your seats yet? I'm asking you to confirm 33 amendments. Mrs. Oksana, is there a need to speak? Please support the amendment of Deputy Jurinec to 33rd, at the invitation of the Saint. Who supports the 33th amendment, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:46:11]] For 196 Please, by the factions, please and I'll put it again. Dear colleagues, I'll put it back in place, and if it doesn't work out, we'll move on. So, dear colleagues, once again, colleagues, I will give the floor to the head of the Southern Committee. Nina Petrovna, please state the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, if we don't support the 33 amendments, we're going to have to vote 34th in order for the law to take effect on January 1, 2017. So note again, the next amendment should also be put on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u74	I will give the floor to the author of the amendment, Oksani Jurinec. Please, one minute. Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u75	I'm asking everyone who's in the hall, please mobilize, support, this is what the boys are waiting for. For example, Green Mail, which came out today and for its money, wants to buy this car. I'm asking you very much, give them a chance, a month from now, to get this chance. Please. 33, Amendment 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize. Once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to support Amendment 33 of Oksana Jurinec. Whoever supports Amendment 33, please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. 33 revisions. [[11:47:58]] For 213 The decision is not made. Nina Petrovna recommended that they support the 34th. So they're telling me the same "self-help" faction that criticised me for breaking the rules? Dear colleagues, attention, we're starting to get very emotional. Let us now, the law is extremely important, I have an offer to exchange thoughts on this subject. One minute factions, I think it'll be the right thing to do. Colleagues, this form is supported in the hall? Igor. Please, one minute, Berezuk. One minute, Mr. Oleg, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u77	Yes, this faction now requires another vote, because ten people in this room want to humiliate 40 million people who have no chance of buying anything! [[Congrats]] And stop covering up when you have to! You release newspapers in the south when you need them!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u78	Who else in the heads of factions would like to speak? From the heads of factions? Krivenka, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! This is certainly a shame to call for a violation of the Rules, and I am very sorry for that. But we never said that it could be violated if it was necessary for the Ukrainian people. Although this law is wrong for the producers, but the temporary nature of it, what this is only a year in place, and the socio-economic policy that has led people to poverty requires that this law be voted on. I want to make it clear that we're going to go to the Rules with you, we're going to vote in favour of getting back to this bill, and we're going to do it again. the amendment, and it's been reviewed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I want to get you all back into the atmosphere. We have not yet voted by law, we have voted only on Amendment 33, which obliges the introduction of the law from the first number of the next month. If we don't vote with her, it'll be a repulsive implementation and the introduction of this law. Dear colleagues! Come on, I understand all those who raise their hands, they just want to support this amendment. I'll put it to the vote again. And I'm asking you to mobilize all the supporters of this amendment. From "The Fatherland" who? Cool, one minute, please, Fatherland. And please come into the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u81	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Notice, the correct amendment adopted by the committee to get the law to work has already begun, not before. [[Applause]] And what we need to do exactly is change the Rules, so that the work of the committees doesn't fail. Because when one here intentionally makes an amendment to confirm that we are going to overthrow the entire law, and we have this result when the Ukrainian people don't understand what Parliament is doing? So I'm asking you very much, very professionally, to come to this question and let's find 226 to support the amendment, and then to keep the law working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, are you ready? This is now about amendment 33 for confirmation. Dear colleagues who support Amendment 33, please vote. Please vote. Please vote yes. [[11:52:20]] For 216
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u83	Colleagues, I'll go see you. Contact your colleagues with factions. Colleagues, 216 votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down. Please, Solovai, one minute, Solovai, Deputy Solovai. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the situation, not the deputies of the Opposition Block, but the MPs of the WFP and the People's Front, who do not vote or support this law. [[Applause]] There will be a Constitution tomorrow, there will be other important laws tomorrow, and so will we. So first of all, the coalition has to demonstrate and vote. That's enough, we've got to get through this one.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u85	Colleagues, colleagues, attention! Colleagues, we're on the same page, which is very principled. [[th m in s a l i]] Andrew, are you voting? You guys take your seats, I'll put it back on. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm re-voting for amendment number 33. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, Amendment 33. [[11:54:27]] For 231 231 for. Decision taken. We have literally two adjustments left. 40th, Saints. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 41st, Nichiporenko. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 42nd, Balitsky. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we've completed the discussion of the Law of Ukraine 3251 and we can move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for making decisions and taking up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX, Section 5, Transitional Positions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Promoting the Development of the Market in Used Means of Transport, 3251, second reading and generally. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:55:49]] For 237 237 for. Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters, welcome to the committee, welcome to the decision-making process. It was a really important decision. Dear colleagues, we have one more question in the chapter "second reading." Stay put, fellows! I'm asking you to stay in the hall. This is 2763. This is a draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of the obligation to register foreign investment. Colleagues, just a few changes! I'm asking you to stay put and pass this bill. We'll be there by 12 o'clock. I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. Victor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I present to you the draft Law 2763 on the cancellation of the state registration of foreign investments. This is a perfectly artificial corrupt norm that is in force today, which we propose to cancel. The fact is that today the fact that a foreign investment entity has foreign investments is fixed by statutory documents and is being submitted to the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs. This information is completely public, publicly available: the nature of investments, the structure of investors, the size of all investments. In connection with this bill, it is suggested that the procedure for the registration of foreign investments be cancelled as such, which makes no sense at all, since this information is freely available. We have to eliminate all the unnecessary artificial administrative corruption barriers that prevent foreign investment from coming to us, and we need to make this process as easy, transparent, and open as possible. That's exactly what this bill is about. Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to support the table prepared for second reading, to adopt this law as a whole with the necessary technical and legal rights. Dear colleagues, these are the minimum steps that we are obliged to take today, without delay, in order to facilitate the arrival of foreign investment in Ukraine. Of course, we understand that this is not enough, we need to set strong investment incentives, preferences for investors who invest their resources in Ukraine, in new industries that develop business here, give jobs and pay taxes. But that's the minimum, that's our homework that we have to do today without putting it off for tomorrow. So I would like to support this law as a whole with technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u87	Colleagues, this bill is very short, there are only a few rights to it that have not been accepted, and I ask you to stay in your seats. And I'm announcing everyone who's been amended. 1-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. Don't insist. Lechenko. He insists. Please turn on Mr. Yuri's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u88	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. There is no doubt that foreign investment in Ukraine needs to be simplified as much as possible. However, it is far from a secret, yes, and everyone in Ukraine knows that, unfortunately, the lion's number of so-called foreign investments is not really foreign direct investment, but is legalization of previously illegally disbursed funds from Ukraine, such as Cyprus, the Virgin Islands, Bermuda, the Bahamas and so forth. So in order not to interfere with real investment, but in order to leave at least social control over the return of such illegally exported funds, to see who there is, I propose to introduce the application principle of the statement of foreign investment, the declarant principle, where it will be clearly stated which documents are given, where there will be no obstacle to the conduct of the foreign investment itself, and only after foreign investment should the investor show in his declaration where these, in fact, money is a foreign investment. This is an application principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u89	Do you insist on voting? Colleagues, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes with our session. And, colleagues, a representative of the committee, please comment. Noisyuk, you will comment or put to the vote7
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u90	I'll comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u91	Please, Halasyuk, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you for your offer. I would like to stress once again that this bill essentially foresees an applicant model. But I want to point out to you that today the fact that an entity has foreign investments, it's fixed both by statutory documents and it's entered into the Single State Register, which is a completely public, open, transparent information that doesn't require any additional state registration. That's why, in agreement with your idea, this amendment is rejected because it contains the term "state registration." And we're totally refusing this law to register land investments. This information is open to the general public. Please don't support this amendment. Please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. [[12:02:02]] For-88 The decision is not acceptable. Next: 3rd, Vanat. Don't insist. Five o'clock, Lensky. Don't insist. 6th, Dove. Don't insist. 7th, Goose. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u94	He insists. Please give me the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u95	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block supports Ukraine's economy and supports investments without which economic recovery and economic growth are impossible. So we will support the maximum simplification of foreign investment as well as the simplification of domestic investment. And that's why we're also proposing to remove from the article of the Ukrainian Foreign Investment Act an unnecessary and unnecessary article 15 in order to simplify this law. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u96	Thank you. Well, you've already commented, what are we going to take time for? Is There a Need? There's no need, is there? Dear colleagues who support Amendment No. 7 of National MP Gusak, please vote. Please, who supports me, please vote. [[12:03:34]] For-99 The decision is not made. 8th, Lensky. Don't insist. 9th, Dove. Don't insist. 10th, Levenchenko. Dear colleagues. I'll give it to you. This is the last correction. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please invite everyone to the hall. Mr. Yuri, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u97	Thank you. Well, of course, my first amendment was rejected, and this is already a derivative, so unfortunately, it won't be possible to write this mechanism into law right now. Still, I would like to respond to the commentator’s words. In fact, the question is what. One very big difference when something is formally discovered, but it takes a lot of paperwork for journalists involved in journalistic investigations, shoveling, checking and searching for years. On the other hand, when there is a perfectly clear procedure that clearly shows to the Ukrainian people who is who. And the very term "state registration" is one thing, and the meaning is another. So I proposed a perfectly normal and well-declared content with clear documents that no one could change, because it's prescribed in the law, and no, in fact, corruption here. But everyone would see how a small state of the Republic of Cyprus invested 750 thousand people in Ukraine, it seems, in the paws of investment, billions of dollars every year. Regrettably, the amendment was not supported. We continue to play with offshores, society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u98	So you don't insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. Let's move on to making a decision. I'd like to ask you again, "self-help" is for? [[B in m in s a l in]] Also, please, I'm asking you to come into the hall. And Halasyuk, one minute, will call his own faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I ask the entire Chamber to support this bill, which cancels the state registration of foreign investments to facilitate the arrival of foreign investors in Ukraine. This is the minimum step that we are now obliged to take to remove unnecessary administrative, corruption barriers in the way of foreign investment. But this is just the first step. I urge you to spend Economics Day in the Ukrainian Parliament, to consider those nearly three dozen economic bills that lie in the drawer, not to consider, which establish investment incentives that help stimulate Ukrainian exports, create new jobs. Because it's this, not the cooperation program with the International Monetary Fund, that can get the economy out of the systemic economic crisis that we're in. So let's take these little steps today, and let's plan a "economic day" in the Ukrainian Parliament as soon as possible, to consider those laws that are aimed at the economic recovery of Ukraine. It's a priority that's the same as defense. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u100	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 10 / 1 With your permission, I'm going to run a rating vote on how high we have in this room. And I'm asking all the national MPs to take up jobs and take part in the rating vote. I went on for 15 minutes. According to the Rules, I have the right to continue my work for 15 minutes. So, dear colleagues, I'm putting a rating vote on the level of mobilization of the people's deputies in the room. And please take part in the rating vote. Dear colleagues, we vote, please. [[12:07:27]] For 243 The level of mobilization is very high. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of the obligation to register foreign investment (2763) in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:08:06]] For 259. The law is passed. Welcome to the developer authors. Welcome to the deputies. Dear colleagues, and today on the third floor there is an exhibition of the artistic and decorative productions of children with disabilities organized by the Union of Disabled Persons of Ukraine on the eve of the International Day for the Protection of Children. The committee on veterans, ATOs and people with disabilities invites you to visit the exhibition and support our talented children. Dear colleagues, I announce a half-hour break until 12:40 p.m. At 12:40 a.m., we will continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue our work, recess is over. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please report on the beginning of our work. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and get ready for work. We now have a package of laws to work with the IMF. And I hope it's going to be the highest level of mobilization. Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite MPs into the hall, now we're starting a regulatory review of the package of laws required to cooperate with the IMF, the first of which is the draft Law on the Establishment of a Business Ombudsman. We have five bills today needed to cooperate with the IMF, and we have a chance to consider them before lunch. And I'm asking you to go into the hall, get ready for work, before you start looking into these issues. Ready, colleagues, before we get to work? So the first one in this block is the bill of Law 4591 and the proposal is that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Colleagues, is such a proposal supported? It's supported, isn't it? Anyone who supports the proposal for a hearing of 4591 on a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[12:46:29]] For-79 Please show by factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 42, "National Front" – 33, "self-help" – 1, "will of the people" – 1. There is the general will of the hall to be considered in full procedure. Am I going to put the vote again, or does it make any sense? It doesn't make sense. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to a full-procedural review of the law. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Klimenko Yuli Leonidivna. Please turn on Julia Leonidni's microphone from there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u102	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Business Ombudsman Act, registered under number 4591, provides for the establishment in Ukraine of a business ombudsman institution as a mediator of an independent third party, a kind of third-party institution, which helps business entities to protect their rights to entrepreneurship. The project is defined by the legal principles for the creation and organization of business-ombudsman activities, the establishment of business-ombedsman. The direction of its activities, as well as the principles of relations with the State, government authorities, local self - government authorities, and the management entities involved, as well as the subsets of the enterprise. The agency will deal with complaints from business entities about the actions or omissions of public authorities and local authorities, their officials, and officials regarding business misconduct. However, it will give the authorities and authorities of local self - administration the recommendation to remove or warn malpractice in the field of farming. The draft Law on the Establishment of Business Buildings was prepared to implement the Memorandum of Understanding, supported by the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Initiative signed on 12 May 2014 between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association, the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Chamber of Industry and Entrepreneurs. It should be noted that the Office of the Business Ombudsman is already operating around a year and on the basis of the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 26 November 2014 number 691, and is an advisory body at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. During this period, 856 complaints were dealt with by the business ombudsman, of which 366 were successfully resolved. The cumulative and financial and economic impact of the business institution is 3.4 billion dollars for today. So, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, please consider it and support it in the first reading, because the adoption of this draft act will help create conditions to improve the level of protection of entrepreneurs' rights, to speed up their problems through mediation, and to monitor the implementation of programs by the executive authorities of measures to combat infringements of the legitimate rights of business entities. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u103	Thank you very much. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u104	Thank you. Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, bill (4591) on the establishment of a business ombudsman in Ukraine is extremely systemic for the Ukrainian economy. Because there's no news for anyone that today is Ukrainian small, medium-sized business, I'm not talking about micro-entrepreneurs, it's systematically being oppressed by the authorities of the state, it's constantly facing corruption, it's facing bureaucracy, it's facing the inefficiency of the state apparatus, it's facing the inaction of the judicial system, it's impossible to find the truth in the authorities of the state. This is what is now practically overturning the investment climate in Ukraine. Can we deal with such a situation? No, of course not. And that's why we have created a business-employee institution that is now in operation, supported by Ukrainian associations of manufacturers, entrepreneurs, employers, this is very important. In fact, this institution today, the office of the business office, is a voice, including the Ukrainian small and medium-sized business. We know about the first results of the business office, because Mr. Schemeta, who heads this institution, has reported to us here in the Supreme Council on the small and medium-sized business development hearings we had for the first time in the last 10 years on this particular topic. We've heard about these results. We know positive feedback from business about what really helps solve issues. Many complaints are decided without coming to court, they don't linger for years, as it was before, and they really do find their own solution. So this is, indeed, a tool that today allows to protect the interests of Ukrainian small and medium-sized businesses and entrepreneurs. And the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship also synchronizes, and sometimes on the same issues, we come together in the interests of protecting Ukrainian entrepreneurs. So I would like to point out that this bill, which is proposed, actually allows at the level of law to establish those rules of activity of the Office of Business Buildings, to establish procedures of activity, the scope of responsibility, the guarantee of independence, the guarantee of the protection of the business ombudsman, so that no one can pressure him: neither the Public Prosecutor's Office, nor the Bureau, nor any other structure -- to push himself into a strong, independent and someone who can fight for the interests of Ukrainian entrepreneurs. It must be a European, transparent and, but very strong and toothy, dental institution that will protect the interests of the Ukrainian business. That is what requires the status afforded by this law. Because without law, this institution has no such power, such influence, and such protection. So what we're saying today is that we need to adopt this bill on the establishment of a business office, in order to give clear legal rights to this institution, so that the lawyer of the Ukrainian business can give real weights to influence at the level of the law, provide security assurances and extend the mandate. I would like to point out that there are, of course, a number of warnings, a series of comments to this bill. Yes, including the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, the result of the first reading of the bill is that the bill should be rejected. We have carefully examined this bill on the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. We see, in fact, that the bill needs to be redrafted, norm-making, editorial, technical-legal, in order for it to become law, but we see that the bill is conceptually faithful and in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, because the committee agrees with the concept of this bill, we propose that it be adopted on the first reading as a basis. And the committee is ready to take on a huge piece of work to finalize this bill in order to make it a ready product. So, Mr. President, I would like to ask you to support the decision of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship to support this bill on the establishment of a business office on the basis of the first reading, to place it on the territory of the Committee on Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship, where we work together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs with the Office of the Business Ombudsman, with Ukrainian associations of producers and entrepreneurs, employers to make it an ideal, powerful tool for protecting Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we now have a question under the Rules to the rapporteur. Please record the question. Dear colleagues! Oksana Prodan is invited to the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! Mr. Secretary's Honourable Deputy! In fact, the structure of an Ombudsman business is the right thing to do. And I am personally very grateful to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for that. That they're funding the Ombudsman today, his Office, and today they have the opportunity, at least in some way, to help the Ukrainian business. At the same time, I know how the head of the All-Ukrainian Union of Small and Medium-sized Business "Fortec" in the drafting of your bill addressed businesses from all over Ukraine with the question of which one of them was assisted by the Ombudsman. And I didn't get any answers! And I have a question for you. Now, you've given very good statistics, which are the ones that the companies have responded to, and you've got the support of the Ombudsman, because in small and medium-sized businesses, I haven't found any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u107	Turn on Klimenko Julia Leonidni's microphone, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u108	(Yes, included.) Dear Mrs. Prodan, they really are. All the statistics are actually listed on the business office website, you can get to know and I think we can even put it in that order, let's say, a letter. At the moment, 856 complaints were received by the Office of Business Ombudsperson, of which 366 were fully implemented, let's say so, and closed. So a specific list of enterprises we can, I think we can, with the agreement of the Business Office, publish it, just without their consent we can't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Olena Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u111	The Self-Help faction, of course, welcomes this bill, we believe that today, when there are so many, including abuses, from tax inspection and other supervisory and supervisory authorities, the activity and strengthening of the business-ombedsman's business activity is an urgent need. However, how well we produce this law will depend on it and how well it can help the business office. In this regard, I have the first question and the main question. The law does not clearly define the status of this institution, because the first article states that it is a natural person, and the text goes on to mention that the business ombudsman is actually an official, because he is the head of this institution, and the non-profit organization is also mentioned. Please clarify the status as you see it so that we can work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u112	The bill stipulates that the Constitution is a non-governmental non-profit organization that has a supervisory board and which one. The Supervisory Board shall determine the business ombudsman and his deputies. So the business-ombudsman himself is not, is a hired person, let's say. So the basic idea is that this institution is a non-state, non-profit organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time spent asking questions is exhausted. Thousands written on the board. Three minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, it will be possible to speak in all of our next chapters. Now there's going to be a chapter on "cutouts from factions" and everyone who wants to be able to speak in it. I'm asking you, colleagues, to record statements by factions and parliamentary groups. Please record. From the Radical Party Musiyczuk Igor Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u114	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction supports the creation of a business institution and we believe that this needs to be done seriously, because the protection of entrepreneurs from what is currently happening: from raids, from improper checks, from attacks by controlling authorities, this is primarily a budget replenishment, because entrepreneurs, when paying for the budget, have to be protected from the state. But actually yesterday was an event that, I'm sure, would have an impact on the development of Ukrainian business and much more. This is about getting Ukrainian citizenship by the Russian oligarch Grigorishin, because we know the position of this oligarch and that he runs the business both in the occupied Crimea and in the occupied area of Donbas. And he is unhindered in the shortest of terms with Ukrainian citizenship. At the same time, citizens of other nations who have shed and shed blood, protecting Ukraine, are not granted citizenship. This is essentially a crime before the nation and the state. Therefore, our faction, in support of the bill, wants to contact the President of Ukraine in parallel to provide clarification on the granting of citizenship. Because the nation needs to know for what reasons a person who essentially runs business in Crimea and on the occupied part of Donbas is contributing to the financing of invaders and terrorists has received Ukrainian citizenship. The nation must know when foreign heroes who protect our country will receive Ukrainian citizenship and protection from persecution in the territory of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please do ask me to focus on the substance of the bill when discussing the bill. The "Fatherland" faction is invited to the floor. Rybchin, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u117	Please turn on the microphone, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u118	In support of the whole ideology of the adoption of the Business Buildings Act, I would like to remind the Ministry of Economics that this is not new to our country, because we had our first business constructions assigned in 98 at the level of areas, and we had a very good, positive example of work. I want to say that unfortunately, we have now seen a study by Sweden on the competitive environment in Ukraine. From 61st country, Ukraine takes 59th place in competition. But unfortunately, I've never heard a business ombudsman speak on the subject of a terrible monopoly in the country, because without competition, without destroying the monopoly, no business can develop. And so, unfortunately, in my opinion, second reading needs to be done very seriously, because there are many rights, but there are few obligations. I support this issue, Mrs. Prodan, that small, medium-sized business there is no way to look at it and it mostly protects a more medium-sized business that has the legal capacity to form documents as required by the business office. For us to make regional representations of the Ombudsman first of all, because if he stays only in Kiev to serve foreign companies, it won't be very good. And the second question that causes mistrust is, who's going to finance it? There's no answer to the bill today, if the European Bank for Reconstruction has completed its funding, I think we need to create, think about what part of this funding will be from the budget, and then part of that will be the impact. I think the second reading of this bill needs to be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Kugel. Please, before the word, "The People's Front." National MP Mikhailo Himil is invited to attend. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear presiding officers! Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that this is the first reading of the Ombudsman's mission bill, the business ombudsman in Ukraine. I think we all know that we have an Ombudsperson mission for human rights, for the protection of children's rights. But, you know, right now, a small, medium-sized business like we have in Ukraine is really like the state of protection of these children, compared to the protection of children in Ukraine. The issue of deregulation, the question of reducing the number of checks, that's all well, it's all been said recently at our parliamentary hearings on the situation of both small and medium-sized businesses. And this mission, this institution now needs it more than ever. I would like to remind you that even one third of the cases that have now received a positive solution due to the work of the Ombudsman's mission created on the basis of a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, but the powers they have are not enough right now. And we should thank you for the work that Mr. Schemeta did, but we should give you the authority that this Supreme Council can do and the function. So I urge everyone to support this bill in the first reading. Clearly, he is imperfect, but we are given the opportunity as a committee to examine him professionally and prepare him for second reading. I urge everyone to support and vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Peter Dustock's Block. Olga Belkova gives the word to Oksani Prodan. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! I want to remind all of us that we have today's Regulatory Policy Service, the former State Enterprise. Which, and you and I are obliged to become once again the strong state structure that once was under Alexander Volodymyr Kugel. As far as the bill is concerned, I would like to draw the attention of all those present to these moments. First, the Ombudsman is given the right to choose: what complaints he is considering and giving answers, and what complaints he is not considering, i.e. it will be "white business" and "black," and that is in the draft law. Secondly, the duties of the Ombudsman and his office are to carry out legislation and report on its implementation, but the authority is so much that "prosecution may envy." Thirdly, the bill's funding is not as it is today -- it's from the GDR, it's supposed to be some kind of funding that we're going to have. And you and I know that there are no funds in the state today, and that's why the small and medium-sized business that doesn't get help from the Ombudsman today is not going to get them, and they're going to pay more for it. And here's the thing: the draft law states that the Ombudsman gets even more immunity rights than the judges, than the President and all the other officials today. I find it very interesting that an ombudsman with the right to be in touch not only with his activities but with complete integrity. Is this a novel? Next item. We are not talking about the fact that these should be Ukrainian citizens, although the theoretically small and medium-sized business is Ukrainian in Ukraine. And the last thing I wanted to say. I thank the international community once again for helping any investors in Ukraine today, that's right and that's what we need today. At the same time, we should not forget that Ukraine should rely on its own strength. We have to do everything we can to ensure that there are overall competitive conditions in Ukraine, not for a separate business, not for a larger business, not for the better, but for all, a level playing field, with equal pay and equal access to rights. So I would very much like to ask now, using the opportunity, the Ministry of Economics to return to the regulatory service and to develop a structure that actually worked much more effectively at other ministries in its own time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Prodan. Please turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u125	Mrs. Sotnik, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u126	Thank you very much. I didn't just ask my question to the representative of the Ministry of Economics about the status of the institution. Because the status of this institution determines both authority and responsibility. Supporting what Oxana just said to Prodan and continuing, yes, the business ombudsman gets and the business ombudsman inspectors get a very wide range of powers, including drawing up administrative protocols, protocols of administrative offences, asking information, conducting various factual surveys of officials regarding complaints. And at the same time, they get a lot of discretion about their powers, because it's true that they're actually, by their own discretion, a businessman can initiate some sort of conduct. This means that in fact someone can just stay out of business and be denied such protection. I think we have to definitely bring equality here. Every business has the right to have adequate protection, but not even a problem. This uncertainty, which is the institution, poses a very serious threat to abuse. I'm going to remind you that there's also an order in this law, so that the business-ombudsman is elected by the supervisory board. This supervisory board is described, its order of formation by one article, and this article, in fact, contains no order of selection, no criteria, no quantity, no way of forming this Supervisory Board, it simply prescribes three blocks of representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers, representatives from business structures, and it is not at all clear who it is? Who will actually represent our Ukrainian business with you in this Supervisory Board? And this board of supervisors is choosing business ombudsmen on what criteria is unknown? Because these laws are not established in the law, this means again the possibility of discretion and the possibility of abuse, which will be chosen by a person who will not meet the interests of the business, and will not have the primary objective of protecting the business. So, colleagues, I support very, very much the comments in the legal administration, especially these remarks relate to the changes in the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code, in fact, we really give the business ombudsman a wide range of preferences, especially in addition to the intactness of criminal conduct in investigations, if they apply to business ombudsman. I don't think that's going to be possible, because it violates the balance of criminal law. So now you and I need to figure out how we're going to work out this bill so that it doesn't actually make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u127	Let me finish, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u128	how we're working on this bill so that it doesn't put imbalances in the existing system of legislation today and so that it actually adheres to the objective of protecting business rather than protecting the interests of individual business representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to address all the distinguished national MPs who are now outside the session room with a request to return, because we have a few minutes to move on after the voting procedure. And before that, I would like to give the floor, at your request, to the head of the Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship Committee of Victor Halasyuk. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the session room. Please turn on the loudspeaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina, dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill, I ask you to support it in the first reading on a basis, for the second reading it will be carefully worked by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, taking into account your recommendations, your comments, including those that have been heard in this room today. But, at the same time, I would like to stress once again that, according to the Supreme Council Rules, the bill is supported by Parliament in its first reading on a basis if the MPs agree with its concept. I am absolutely sure that the concept envisaged by this bill is one that is in the interests of Ukrainian entrepreneurs. This is also evidenced by the fact that the Office of the Business Ombudsman works on the basis of a Memorandum established between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the OECD, the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, the European Business Association, the Chamber of Commerce and the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. So this is a joint initiative of Ukrainian business, Ukrainian producers, taxpayers, entrepreneurs supported by the government and supported by international financial institutions that are interested in Ukraine's economic and investment success. So, dear fellows, I have a huge request to you to support this bill in the first reading on the ground. For the second reading, you and I will work together on it and we will take into account all of those adjustments essentially, the drafting, technical and legal ones that are necessary for it to work. But I want to point out before the vote that Ukrainian entrepreneurs today need such an institution, such a lawyer, an advocate of their own interests, who will act not only on the basis of the personal authority of the manager, as today is due to the authority of Algirdas Schemeta, but an institution that will have strong institutional importance of influence, will have guarantees of independence so that they will not be afraid that those prosecutors, those U.S.A., all the others, against whom they will protect the business, that they can exert pressure on them. So you need strong influences, you need strong business protection and you need full transparency and business support. This is what has already been established, and by adopting this law we will give it legal status. We'll work on the second reading. Dear colleagues, please support this bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u131	Thank you for your clarification. I remind my colleagues that we are considering this bill in full procedure, and now, according to the Rules, we have 15 minutes left to discuss the national MPs of this bill. I'm asking you to sign up right now to discuss the national MPs for the speech. And at this point, I'm asking you to mobilize the hall. And from what I understand, there's no discussion in this room about what we need to strengthen business protection. I understand correctly that the Self-Help faction has met with government officials and is supporting this bill in its first reading? "self-help," in the first reading? Yes. Everyone's focused on the show. Please give me the first word, "Peter Prashenka's Block", the national MP Zabotny. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the more the Supreme Council adopts deregulation bills, the easier it is for entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized, to live. And on a large scale, listening to the deputy minister’s report today, the impression is, of course, that it is a bill that deserves attention. And when you read more deeply, when you really listen to the comments of colleagues who know the essence of the problems, a serious question arises. Do you know what entrepreneurs today say when they read the draft law? They say that this bill is prepared for those entrepreneurs who have a serious foreign capital, that is, those who want to protect businesses with foreign investment in Ukraine. That's right, too. But why is it not clearly stated: what are the problems, which entrepreneurs, what are the sizes, what are the criteria? If it doesn't, I think it's going to be hard to pass this bill because. Even in the first reading, because a lot of people don't understand the things that are laid down in this bill. First. I'd like to ask the deputy minister to take that note into account. You have to work on the funding system. Because if there's administrative fines, then there's a sense that the business ombudsman is only going to do it to order someone to form a budget to fund his structure. That's one point. The other one. That we are deeply convinced, and I support Alexandra Volodymyrovna and Oksana Sold, that the regional divisions should be formed in an orderly manner, and they must have serious authority and serious support. And if that is the case, then we will necessarily vote on this bill and orderly vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u133	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national MP Rybchin. He is given the word and the national deputy Ivchenko, and the national deputy Shkrum. Please turn on the microphone, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u134	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Well, really, this bill should only be supported in the first reading, because it still needs to be worked out. And how do we know that this bill belongs to the so-called IMF list of "recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council." We haven't seen this whole list yet, but unlike those bills that say that there should be an increase in the number of substitutes in tax or customs, this bill is really nice. But there are things that need to be worked out for the second reading. So, for example, this business office is a non-state, non-profit organization that promotes the protection of business subjects when they engage in entrepreneurial activities, as well as protection against corruption and other forms of mismanagement. It's done. It's a key issue of the institution's status bill, so it's defined as a non-state organization, probably in order to ensure its independence. At the same time, the mandate of the Business Ombudsman in many places is the same, for example, to the institution of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, for example: to hold interviews with officials to vote in order to obtain information, access to information with limited access. Guarantees of the Business Office are also similar: intactness, subtraction of the V.I.A., criminal responsibility for interfering with its activities. But, at the same time, the Human Rights Commissioner is an official, and in addition to a wide range of rights and guarantees, he is subject to control and responsibility under the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Instead, the business ombudsman bill does not define any responsibility at all for the business ombudsman, his substitutes in case of over-authorisation, nor does the anti-corruption control mechanism. Proposals for consideration in determining the status of this institution. First of all, it must be an auxiliary body at the Cabinet of Ministers or it has been authorized to protect the rights of entrepreneurs under the President of Ukraine, so we need to determine the status, because now what is prescribed here is an unclear status. There are also issues not defined in the bill, such as: organizational and legal form of the Institution, the procedure for the formation of the Supervisory Board of the Institution, the procedure for the selection of candidates for business ombudsman and his deputies, the arrangements for the appointment of a business ombudsman and his deputies, the information on sources of funding of the Institution, which are essential for ensuring transparency and the independence of the business ombudsman. It may be appropriate to limit a certain range of subjects to pay more attention to small and medium - size enterprises, not large businesses. The bill also overlooked the issue of conflict of interest, because only people with experience in business outlets can work effectively in this institution. It would be advisable to resolve these questions before the second reading. So the "Fatherland" faction will only support the first reading, and we will pay very careful attention to all the bills recommended by the IMF or the government, we don't know. We haven't heard the official position of the IMF. We're voting on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u135	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, "Peter Dust Block." The national deputy, Biloczerkovec, gives the word to Mrs. Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! I would now like to support my colleagues who have spoken about the fact that the status of this body of business ombudsman in the draft law is not fully defined. It is predicted that this business ombudsman will be defined by three sides: one side is a state, and we understand that it is a Kabmin; the other side is a business union. What are these associations? How many should there be? Who should define these associations as entrepreneurial? I don't understand. As far as I'm concerned, it's a completely corrupt norm that will allow someone, someone and something to be identified. And the third part is international structures, it's clear. Today it is the EBRD that is funding the current Ombudsman. But the draft law no longer refers to international structures, but it refers to all three sides. So I don't understand how the status of this body should be defined. We today have different organizations that exist in other countries that allow business structures to work together and join business structures into activities and power, including the Cabinet of Ministers, to make decisions. But today we don't develop or allow these structures to work, we don't provide them with functions. But at the same time, we're creating a new structure, once again, a structure that has a lot of powers, powers to come without any warning, to remove any documents, to have first, first-line access to one or the other, but no responsibility for improper actions, no responsibility for not considering any kind of appeal, complaints by an entrepreneur of small and medium-sized businesses, big business, it doesn't matter. What's more, I'd like to address you, Mrs. Julia. When you say that out of 800 complaints, some part of the complaint is considered and closed, it doesn't mean they're satisfied, it just means they're answered. What about the rest? What is the answer? Business is waiting for his questions to be resolved. There is little responsibility for these issues in the bill today. And I want to take another look at what? At this point in time, the business ombudsman in Ukraine is working, and that's why I think that the bill and the Supreme Council need a bill that will really solve the issues that are before the business and the state. The bill simply makes a vacchanal, even in the situation that is now, and places new responsibilities on the state, and no responsibility on the Ombudsman is placed. That is why I believe that the government needs to finalize this bill and submit to Parliament the project that is really necessary for the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Wojcietsky of Self-Help. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u138	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u139	Please turn on Sidorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to concentrate, because we're actually talking about very important things. The self-help faction, as we said, will support in the first reading, but it will support most of all for one of the first reasons: you can't keep this right idea, but the technique of the draft itself is unfortunately very inconvenient. Starting with going to the Supreme Council's website and looking at the bill's comparative table, the text of the bill has not been specified at all. You can't make such a fundamental serious bill in this way. Next. It's a bill. There's a lot of ambiguities and a lot of ambiguities. For example, if we take Article 7, "The order of formation and authorization of the Supervisory Board." The first block is the Cabinet of Ministers. That's understandable. Block Two is an international financial institution. What are international financial institutions? How do they determine on what principle? The CIS also has its own international financial institutions. We're going to be joining them in the process of creating a business-ombudsman? Block three is organized business circles. Which are organized, which is not organized, which is this business circle, how they're going to be defined, the law of this, unfortunately, is absolutely in no way predictable. Next. That's what my other colleagues have already said. This is a very important issue: funding the institution's activities. Article 22: "Financial and material and technical security of the institution may be carried out by a group of parties in accordance with decisions." It may or may not be realized. So in fact, the bill in question absolutely in no way provides for a material and technical basis for the operation of this institution. As far as authority is concerned. I won't stop because my colleagues have said enough. But I'd like to say a little bit more about "Transitional Provisions," more faithfully, "The End," which amends other laws such as the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code. My friends, colleagues, we can't destroy the structure of legislation. Read 6 of the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration there is very correct record of what to make. To provide, more faithfully, for the criminal responsibility of a businessman, not by the Criminal Procedure Code, but by other laws. We can't break the structure of Ukrainian legislation, because otherwise we won't get it all together. So here's the conclusion. Support is needed in the first reading in order not to protect this idea. But between the first and the second readings, we have a colossal work to do on this bill so that we don't get misunderstood institutions out of the unknown.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u141	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u142	So that we don't get a definitively incomprehensible institution with incomprehensible powers that is formed in an incomprehensible way that has uncertain sources of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u143	Thank you. People's deputies Rybchin and Krulko used their time to speak, they said. And that's why the word Ostap is now given to Ednak, non-factional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the bill is very much needed by Ukraine. And I literally, I think, last fall, I was talking to the Ombudsman himself, and he mentioned at the time that he needed to be guided not just by some internal documents, but specifically by a law that regulates his activities and strengthens his activities in Ukraine, because business is now unprotected and, we know, he suffers from frequent misconduct or inaction of public authorities. And the point is, once again, thank the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for launching such an initiative in Ukraine. I'm sure that the idea of this law, and the very mechanism of its functioning, it's been written out of practical activity for about a year now, of this institution. With regard to the criticism that many MPs make about the quality of the rules, I also have to agree because there is much else, or the misdescribed, financing is completely incomprehensible. And the inadequacy of this law can jeopardize the independence of this institution and the quality of its functioning in the future. So I call on the people's deputies, as my colleagues have already said, to support it as a basis, not to lose this idea itself, because it also, if we fail it, will reflect negatively on the investment attractiveness of Ukraine. But there is still work to be done before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u145	Thank you very much. Thank you for your position. We jumped John Krulk. Mr. John, if you could speak to the people of Ukraine, please. Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for presenting yourself so special. Of course, the "Fatherland" faction on the first reading will support this bill. But come on, colleagues, let's look at this a little bit differently: our business is in such a terrible state that we need to introduce a special institution in the state that has to protect this business. Why don't we look at Parliament a little differently on this issue? Let us create such conditions for the Ukrainian business, such a tax system, so we can make the customs work so that the Ukrainian business doesn't have to have its own advocates and so that they have one defense in court, and understand that there are fair rules of play in Ukraine. It seems to me that in this context: through the changes to the Tax Code, through the revision of the Customs Code, through the formation of order in the Ukrainian authorities, which must become a service to the Ukrainian business, not to those who are engaged in the struggles and who are involved in corruption -- we have to solve this problem. But this bill will certainly support "Paternity" in the first reading. There are some nuances that colleagues in the session room have already talked about, and I'm not going to repeat what we need to work on for the second reading, we're going to make suggestions to them. And let's move in the direction that Ukraine's small and medium-sized business today becomes a locomotive for the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches by national deputies is exhausted. By order we have a closing word for the authors and I give the word Klimenko Yulia Leonidivni for the closing statement. Please close the door for three minutes. And get ready, Halasyuk, for the final word. Please, Mrs. Julia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, indeed, many of the comments and suggestions should be taken into account between the first and second readings. But I'm asking you very much to support it in the first reading, because this is an existing, working institution of the business office of the Ombudsman, which has shown its effectiveness, which should continue to work. And in order to allow it to go more into the region, more deeply, let's say, find business problems and start solving them, and yet there must be authority, and legislative grounds for their existence. So please support the first reading. All your wishes will be supported between the first and the second readings, the ministry will join the committee and work actively on all the remedies that will be offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u149	Thank you, dear fellows. There will be a vote in three minutes, so I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, for the decision. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now, the heads of factions I ask to mobilize the maximum members of the deputies to prepare for the decision. And I give the floor to the closing committee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, and I ask Mr. Victor to turn on the microphone. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I don't think there's any discussion about whether an office of business ombudsman is needed in Ukraine? This is the protection of Ukrainian entrepreneurs, the protection against underprivileged Ukrainian authorities, from corrupt courts, from bureaucratic state institutions. This is the institution that supports the very entrepreneurial environment, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has a memorandum between these institutions and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are already positive results of the work of this institution, we are now simply obliged, despite the shortcomings of this bill, which can and will be removed to the second reading, to support it in the first reading and on the basis. I promise you, we are at the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship to take a very careful look at the drafting of this bill. There will be no race, it will be done in a very elaborate way to count all positions with expert discussions. But this bill needs to be adopted because Ukrainian entrepreneurs need a strong lawyer. With the power of attorney, such powerful powers, and guarantees of protection provided for in the bill. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u151	Mr. Victor, thank you for calling, I really sincerely ask you to turn to the faction that you belong to, with request and conviction, all those important words to bring to our brothers to vote in favour of this bill. Dear colleagues! We're done here. We can move on to making a decision, but understanding what a difficult situation there is in the room, with your permission, I will conduct a rating vote so that we can see what potential there is in the decision-making room and are we able to make decisions, are there enough deputies in the decision-making room? I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? So now I'm conducting my first rating vote to figure out how high the potential is in the room. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the vote, and I ask you to vote. Colleagues, please vote, rating vote, please vote. [[13:39:40]] For 228 The potential is sufficient for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a decision. Mr. Victor, thank you for your firm stand and your principle. And, colleagues, please prepare to make a decision, colleagues. Is it? I'll bet. I'm voting on the draft Law on the Establishment of a Business Ombudsman (room 4591) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:40:40]] For 242 Decision taken. Welcome to both the developers and the authors and the committee for active productive work. And, colleagues, I'd like to consult with you right now. We now have, according to the Rules, a statement from two political factions, from the Radical Party faction and the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u152	They call for a break, but they agree to switch the break for a break. [[th m in s a l i]] From the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u153	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs! They say, "Permit, break!" I don't want to work anymore, they're very fertile, like unemployed, like teachers, like doctors, you really want to take a break. What's your break until the law on temporary investigation committees has been passed until a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council investigating corruption and offshors of senior officials of the state has been set up? I am addressing the head of Parliament. Our authority signs a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, picks citizens for pens, collects last social rights, raises retirement age, sells land, and our mother's ready to sell from those coins that will then be stolen. Instead, no one wants to investigate the corruption of the state’s senior officials. For the third week, you're blocking the decision because there's both the president and the head of the National Bank and Minister of Finance Daniluk, and all the other so-called offshore officials. I demand that the Ukrainian Parliament take a decision, form a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate corruption, and the offshore authorities who rob Ukrainian citizens, without tax, are hiding billions of dollars from Ukraine, on offshore launderers. Instead, the pensioners pay the taxes, the children remove the last scroll, the glass of milk in the school will not be added, and the pensioner is thrown off the bus because they say there are no 2 bracelets to pass. There are no 2 bracelets to pass, so that a black man, a disabled person, a child, a pensioner can pass on a suburban bus or a rural bus, but billions steal, pay taxes, and abuse Ukrainian citizens. I'm surprised at the impotence, jadeness and infantility of today's Parliament. Why were you chosen here to cover the corruption of power so that you could be associated with these crimes? You're responsible for your inaction. I therefore demand that the head of Parliament put to the vote without delay, create an investigative commission and allow for the investigation of corruption of power. We ask the government to return the price of gas to Ukrainian citizens. People can't cheat at the end because of you! Darmoids!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you for a moment. We have the next day's bill 4503, which needs a longer and more serious discussion, and we only have 10 minutes to break. In two. Two in the afternoon stand 4294, this is Mustafa Nyem's bill to amend the Ukrainian National Police Act. Mr. Mustafa! Mr. Mustafa! There's actually no discussion in the room after that bill, there's general support. And we can use those 10 minutes to take it now. There's only one sentence. Can you count on support in the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's in two, but it's simpler. Well, then, Your Honor, with your permission, since only 10 minutes, I'll set it up. No objections? There's a denial, isn't there? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dombrowski, please, one minute. Just consult on that. Please, Mr. Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! I want to draw attention to Bill 4503, which we have approached with you, which does not require a deep, serious discussion, because the decision-making committee recommendation is to bring him back to the committee for further work. We can vote without discussion, very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u156	Thank you. If there's such a general position, let's do it this way. Colleagues, there's a general position like this. There's a committee decision. Dear colleagues, I would like us to simply exchange our thoughts on the matter so that the mines fall. There's a committee decision to bring him back to the committee. It's IMF law. And that's the general position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u157	[[From the Hall]] And the ministries have that position, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u158	Is that the same position as the Ministry?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u159	[[From the Hall]] And the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u160	There's a position. Then, colleagues, let us move on to his day - to - day consideration. 4503, I'm asking you to consider, and I'm asking you to support his proposal for a reduced procedure. Will you support me? I am voting on a proposal for a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of the conditions for the functioning of the natural gas market, and consideration of the reduced procedure. Anyone who supports such a proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:47:37]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Nasalik Igor Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u161	Dear Andriy Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of preconditions for the new natural gas market model is designed to amend Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act. To understand the depth of the changes to the law, I'm just going to kick in and tell you what changes and what changes are being made. In particular, in the Code of Administrative Violations, in the Law on Pipeline Transport of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine "On Renting State and Municipal Property", "On Management of Public Property Objects", "On Privatisation of State Property", in the Law "On Oil and Gas, in the Law "On Natural Monopolies of Ukraine", in the Law "On Housing and Communal Services", in the Law "On Heat Supply", in the Law "On Securing Commercial Natural Gas Coverage", in Ukraine "On State Social Standards and Public Social Guarantees", in the Law "On Licensing of Economic Activities", Ukraine "On the Market of Natural Gas", the obligation of operators of distribution gas systems. So after making a joint site where the members of the Fuel Energy Committee and the market participants worked together, the Ministry came to the conclusion that they should. The amendments to the bill should be re-readed for the Committee's work. Thank you. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u162	Thank you. The co-report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in Bilkova Olga Valentinovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! Confirming all that has been said by a former colleague, and now by Minister Nasalik, I can point out the following. In this bill, a very similar fate, even in the past government, was introduced by the government. The committee was meeting twice, we were unable to agree on its future fate, and in fact it was not voted by the Supreme Council. In the future he was transferred to a new composition of the government, we tried to find on, well, actually in the working group compromises, but all the deputies unanimously agreed that a) this bill is important, but unfortunately today he will not find support in the Supreme Council Hall. So we suggest that the committee will come to every position of this important bill, and so we ask you to support the decision to refer to the first, to re-reading to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against, please. Please, Bilkova. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u165	Thank you. Now, in continuing my position as deputy, I would like to point out that this bill is necessarily to be adopted, it has only a few points of caution, this is also a question of licensing, this is a question of distribution networks that are currently being used without a defined legal regime that we could all talk about as being defined. So I'm asking you, colleagues, support the committee's decision and we'll start, involve all the deputies of all factions to make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u166	Thank you. Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u167	I give the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, we pay attention to absolutely. "The Self-Help Association calls attention to the total impermissibility of the changes proposed in the Law on the Unification of Co-owners of Multiple Houses, the Housing and Utilities Act, the Heat and Commercial Accounting Act. What is being suggested right now? It is suggested that some delegated authority should be delegated to local authorities by combining coowners with electricity and gas in multi - apartment buildings. Where does this idea come from? How can an authority of local self - government delegate payment authority to a union of owners? We have a consumer-supplier relationship that we can't have. And under this rule, the Commercial Accounting Act also imposes the installation of house appliances. In doing so, if people consume each apartment separately and have a separate contract, we realize that now the hands are being twisted by supply companies, and it is the associations of coowners to set up house appliances when there is no gas loss in the homes. What is the purpose of such an accounting? So we think it's unacceptable and it has to be changed. We've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got That doesn't match the ideology of today's Housing Services Act. There is also the attachment of heat companies to special accounts to which the money of consumers is to be paid to a single company with the special obligations of Naftogazu. All the volumes, even though the enterprise can make a deal with a single supplier on supply by budget and by other means. We believe that this law really needs to be redrafted for the first reading and cannot be voted on as a basis today. So we're going to work and we're going to remove completely unacceptable standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u169	Do you support the position of the committee? You'll support it. Thank you very much. So, People's Front, Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u170	Alexander Kodolah. I'm asking you to give the floor to Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u171	Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, I address everyone in this room: the second hour, and we've only considered seven bills. We have 30 very important bills of all factions in order today. Mr. Head, I called your attention to the Conciliation Council yesterday, and I ask you to ask at 2.00 p.m. on the Rules that we will be working towards the conclusion of the agenda that we have planned for today, because we are going to go around the place. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u172	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. It's true, we agreed. And before the break, as stipulated in the Rules, I will definitely put this proposal to the vote. I think we have to work, work, work, as John Franco said, we have a lot of obligations. And the last performance, Alexander Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u173	Mr. Secretary, first of all, I remind you that you promised the Fatherland faction that you would conduct a task force in part of the tariff compliance test. Unfortunately, to whom you may be able to ride, because even foreign experts today say that when you spend $100 a summer in Europe, you put out 192 gas for your population, which does not have enough income. It's like a minimum, and it's 200 with an extra. I want to address you in accordance with this bill. We realize that when we adopt the Gas Market Act, we need to rent our gas distribution systems. I'd like to check that this is a transparent, non-monopoly structure. Because everything that's connected to Naftogaz, unfortunately, is being turned into funds for those who lead it. Secondly, today the Supreme Court of Ukraine has made a very important decision: to appeal to the Constitutional Court to appeal against the unconstitutionality of the President's Decree on the creation of the NCREKP. I spoke to the President when he appointed them. There was a direct violation of the legal system when the new commission was created. And that's why I can tell you whether this year or ever these decisions are going to be made illegally. In addition, please note, Mr. Minister, there is nowhere in the world for a monopoly and one who is "walking under the President", the entire NCRECR team, to create licensing conditions on its own without the possibility of implementing the Basic Principles of Regulatory Policy Act. So for today, we get irreversible corruption -- irreversible, which will not only lead to Maidan, but also to what is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u174	I'm asking for 30 seconds. There's no need, is there?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u175	[[From the Hall]] If you don't mind, answer, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u176	Turn on the mic, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-05-31-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And there is the position of the committee to refer to the committee for re-reading. As I understand from the performances, all factions support it. Mrs. Alexander, do you support this position? Self-help supports it. Everyone who has spoken supports this position. So I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for making a decision. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. And I hope this will be a general support so that we don't lose the bill. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the conditions for the functioning of the natural gas market (number 4503) is a generally agreed position of all factions. Please vote 4503 – to the committee, to prepare for the re-reading, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:58:57]] For 210 Dear colleagues! It was a common position of the entire room and I am very much asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We have an exclusive question in the discipline in the hall. I ask you very much to come into the hall and invite a colleague who is not in the hall into the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite the deputies into the Hall and please come into the Hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'll put you back to the vote once. Please come into the hall. I'll be right back. Invite the deputies to the hall who are in the towers. Colleagues, can we vote? Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. I'm asking you to take the job. I've got it. I ask you to vote on the proposal to go back to the draft bill 4503. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[14:01:38]] For 208 208 for. The decision is not made. Dear colleagues! I'm going to put a motion on the vote today to work towards the conclusion of the agenda. Dear colleagues! There's a proposal and a requirement that we should vote on all the bills until the end of the agenda so that we can continue the evening session to address all the issues of the agenda. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support, Your Honor, work towards the conclusion of the agenda, please vote. [[2:02:34]] For 175 175 for. By factions, by factions, please take a look. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We're meeting at 4:00 to continue our work. Thank you, colleagues.
