ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time given by the Break Regulations has been completed at 4 p.m. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the registration for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can we make a registration, colleagues? Dear colleagues, I'd like you to conduct your registration, and please register. [[16:02:47]] 343 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, while the MPs are still coming along, I'd like to make a few messages. First report and clarification on the case of the national deputy Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski. You know, this morning there was a discussion, and I've had a series of intermission meetings, and I want to let you know the following. You know that U.S. Attorney General Yuri Lucenko sent a motion to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 November to give consent to the criminal responsibility of National Deputy Vadim Novinski. As always, I immediately directed this application to the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council. Since then, there have been no more than 20 days in the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council under article 220 of the Rules in order to reach its conclusion and vote in Parliament. If the procedure is breached, we know that it will end with a failed court, and that is why we must go with the letter of the law. Within 20 days, members of the committee had the opportunity to examine the evidence, the legality of submission, and Mr. Novinski had five days to provide written explanations on the matter. Yesterday we witnessed that the regulatory committee had not been able to pass a decision and put the Attorney General to the vote. I stressed to the head of the regulatory committee that on November 24th, the time laid down by the Rules was passing for you to reach your conclusion. The Regulatory Committee addressed the Attorney General’s Office with a letter to provide additional material on the Novinsky case. I also urge the Attorney General to provide these materials, additional materials, as soon as possible for consideration by the regulatory committee. And I'm assigning a task to the regulatory committee after a response from the Attorney General has been received, to meet immediately for a decision. My position as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is that no national MP has the right to hide behind parliamentary inviolability. We've all talked about what should be undoing the inviolability, and that we should be equal before the law, all citizens of Ukraine. I refer to the members of the Regulatory Committee. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is neither a prosecutor nor a court. If there is an appeal to us to consent to criminal conduct, we must give consent and then the court will determine whether or not a crime has been committed. I'm not going to allow this to be artificially delayed, and we have to give a decent answer to this situation, because society is waiting for us to do so. We will not allow bureaucracy to bury this matter. There is a court, and let the court decide whether or not there is a component of the crime. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has never, I stress, ever been able and intended to postpone such matters. Each time, wherever there was a submission, it was entered into the hall, and we handed it over to the court for a decision. And also this time, I'm sure the Supreme Council should say its word and allow law enforcement authorities to determine whether there is a component of the crime. That's my answer to all the national MPs, too. And also to the faction that left the Hall, Self-Help, without the committee's decision, we won't be able to look into it. So I'm asking you to go back to the study room. We have very important questions in our agenda. And the question of sanctions against Yanukovic and his environment, and the question of how to allocate funds to Euroworking, and we have to make these decisions today. Because if we don't make those decisions, Europlacation can be transferred to any other country, including the Russian Federation. So it's very important to have a high level of responsibility, and it's very important that we act in a coherent and systematic manner. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. But I have from two factions now a request for a recess, which they are willing to replace with a performance, from the People's Front faction and also the Radical Party of Oleg Lacha. But both factions are ready to replace the break from the rostrum. And that's why I'm giving the floor to both the factions of Victoria Sumar. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and all the heads of factions, to call the deputies into the hall so that we can work fully at the evening plenary. Please turn on the microphone for 3 minutes, Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. And I want to apologize to the Ukrainian people for the fact that on Thursday we're actually working on a work regime for a month, it looks like eight days. And you see, Thursday is the day of the vote, and you see how many people today on the day of the vote are here today in the hall, when we have to make extremely important decisions. It's a real shame. I very much ask that colleagues come to the hall for 16 hours after a two - hour break. The People's Front faction and the Radical Party faction demand that we vote today on the inclusion of 5350 in the agenda -- sanctions against the immediate surroundings of Viktor Yanukovic and against Viktor Yanukovic himself. You know, 21 numbers is the anniversary of the Revolution. You know what we're going to say and nothing to the Ukrainian people about what we did to punish the Yanukovich gang that shot people in Maidan. You know, the whole world, the whole civilized world put sanctions on them, they don't let them into civilized countries, they arrested their assets. This was done by everyone except Ukraine. Why? Well, because there must be a lot of friends in Janukovich's room? Does that make any sense, or is that just a complete fool? This can be explained to people in general after the shootings on Maidan that we have not yet imposed sanctions against Viktor Yanukovich and his family and we cannot include this issue even in the agenda? And the second question is extremely important, colleagues, it's a matter of national dignity. And I'm very much asking you to put in the order of the day question 5319, that's the question of buying into Euro. You know, for Ukraine, Jamal has chosen a great honor to represent and have a mother in Ukraine called Euroworking. And today, unfortunately, because of our bureaucracy, because of our old bureaucratic machine, we may lose our chance to hold this prestigious song contest in Ukraine. This bill, 5319, was agreed yesterday by the Committee on Economic Policy and will be proposed for us to even vote today. I insist on why this is essential in principle. On 3 December, the European Language Society will discuss the question of which country will be running the Eurowave: whether this will be conducted by the country of victory – Ukraine – or the country that has taken the next place, and the following is Russia. And today, Ukraine can lose its Eurobending, and it can be won by the Russian Federation, and it can actually be passed on to Russia by the European language community. You're discovering the level of that shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u3	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u4	in front of the whole world, if we can't do faster procedures? The bill, developed by the National Broadcasting Company, Alexander Harebin, and Maxim Nefodov of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, provides for the opportunity to give Kabmin a list of things to purchase outside the tender, but in a transparent way, through ProZorro, despite all the corruption schemes, all that we need for the purchase of Eurobending.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u5	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u6	I ask you very much to include 5319 and today to vote it as a basis and as a whole. Otherwise we won't make it and we'll lose Eurobending.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a section on "Inclusion in the Order of the Day Session." Before lunch, the authors asked me to move him to lunch, hoping that more deputies would be in the hall. I'm going to put this chapter, "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session," after there's a concentration of deputies in the room. I have the right to put it at any stage. All those proposed by the bill will be put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. And now we're moving on to the next question -- the infrastructure block -- that we have in our daily lives. This is a draft of Law 0954: a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the road traffic management system. It's a second reading. And I invite the head of the Dubnevic Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich, to report. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u8	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed for a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the system for the administration of public roads (registration number 0954) as of 27.11.2014, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading on the basis. The bill amends the laws of Ukraine: "For Local Government Administrations", "For Roads", "For the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea", "The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea" provides for the transfer of road routes to the general use of local importance in the administration of local executive authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district and Sevastopol city administrations. The well - founded funding of local executives is provided through the creation of the State Road Fund. The bills we just voted on, and I thank you very much for supporting the previous bills. The project also provides for the use of long-term road maintenance contracts up to the age of 7 and the International Federation of Consultant Engineers (FIDIC) contracts in the construction and reconstruction of roads, with special features being the presence of independent qualified consultants who assess the technical state of the road and the quality of road works. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 9 / 1 In 15 years, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill (registration number 0954) to adopt in a second reading and in general a comparative table approved by the committee. The bill is systematically related to the State Road Fund (Registration No. 4014a and 4015a) bills that have just been voted and adopted in a second reading. In order to reconcile their provisions, including the date of entry into force of 01.01.18 at the committee meeting of 15.11.16, a decision was taken when the bill was reviewed in a second reading to take into account the following suggestions regarding the drafting of its individual rules. That's right. Paragraph 1 of Section III of the "Final Positions" should read as follows: "This law takes effect since January 1st 18th and is in force simultaneously with the Act of Ukraine on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Establishment of the State Road Fund." Section III, paragraph 2, of the Final Orders, reads as follows: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within one month of the date of publication of this Act, establish its normative and legal acts in accordance with this Act and adopt the acts necessary for the implementation of this Act." In the text of the bill, replace the words "appropriate departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to ensure road safety".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u9	Please, one minute. Finish up, Mr. Jaroslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u10	Thank you. In the text of the bill, replace the words "appropriate departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine that provide for road safety" with the words "appropriate units of the National Police" in the appropriate differences. In the text of the bill, the words "central authorities of the executive branch that implement state security policy on transport" should be deleted. Considering that the relevant reforms in the field of road agriculture were also foreseen by a coalition agreement made in the 14th year, please support the adoption of draft Law 0954 in the context of a comparative table and taking into account the committee's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go over the rights to the bill. Yes, 9th Amendment, author of the Ungurian. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 15th row. Please, Eutusek. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u12	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm going to say right now that we're supporting this bill. That he's good at it. It is predicted that the maintenance of general use roads and other types can be based on long - term contracts of up to 7 years. What does that mean? The contractor who wins the tender will start doing subcontracting. He will understand clearly how well he will make them, so much so that he will keep them. And one more moment. I want to speak to the Minister now. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, what do we have now? What do we have here, where did our rajautodors go? So let me tell you, with the help of the officials of the Krauttodor, the rajautodors were completely stolen in Ukraine. Please pay attention to this, and respond to the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u13	Do you insist on voting? No, it doesn't. Okay. 18 papers, Ungurian. Don't insist. Colleagues, we're done discussing the draft law. Most of the rights given to the committee were accepted. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. One minute later, we move on to making a decision. Now, one minute, the closing words of Jaroslav Dubnevich. Then one word, one minute, Minister. And we're going to the vote. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u14	Dear fellow national MPs! This is exactly the kind of bill 0954 that I asked last year from this rostrum to put on hold and to approve the bill on the creation of the Special Road Fund. And even though some fellow members of the national MPs say that Dubnevich was obstructing the bill, that he stopped the bill to solve some of his questions, I stress that today the Special Road Fund was created! Local work funds are approved by the laws created by the Special Road Fund. And after these bills that we voted on -- the 4014a and 4015a bills -- we went to the 0954 draft on technical allocation of roads. State roads must remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u15	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u16	State roads remain in state administration, and the Kravutodor will be managed by funds, and local roads will be managed and repaired, with subsidies, local self-government. Likewise, I would like to point out that thanks to the clear position of deputies from Lviv, Lviv Airport has received a decent director and is developing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u17	Thank you. One minute, Mr. Omelyan, turn on the minister. And in a minute, the vote. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, we all know the constant expression, "I hate Kravutodore." This bill is designed, in fact, to make "Kravtodor" a transparent, efficient structure so that we can have order on Ukrainian roads that match, and he gets it. We ask and urge you to vote in favour of this bill because it is very important, without it the Road Fund will not be the same as there will be no Road Fund without this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u19	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. Colleagues, please, Mr. Jaroslav, you've made a strong report, and now we need to build a faction just as powerful to vote. Please. Colleagues, please mobilize, please take up jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall, not leave the hall. Colleagues, from the People's Front, please, there will be a vote in 30 seconds. Colleagues, so let's move on to the decision-making process. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on reforming the system of driving by road in general (number 0954) on second reading and in general. This is the last question from this block that all MPs have worked on. I ask your support, please vote 0954 in second reading and in general. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[16:24:30.]] For 209 Not all of them made it. I'll be back. Please invite the deputies into the hall. I'll put it back on the table. Colleagues, have you invited to the hall? Please, colleagues in the towers, please come into the hall. The MPs are coming in. Invite, invite, colleagues who are in the towers, invite, just go out to the towers and call. Colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? Everybody's been called in? Still waiting, waiting 30 seconds, coming in. Is there anyone? Colleagues, so now I'm going to put a motion to the vote, go back to voting for draft Law 0954. I'd like maximum mobilization, to be in the workplace. And I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of draft Law 0954 amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the road traffic management system. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote carefully, colleagues. [[16:27:58]] For 247 We went back to the vote. Now we're moving on to the decision-making process, and I'm putting draft Law 0954 to the vote in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. [[16:28:25]] For 248 Law accepted, colleagues. I want to consult with you. Two factions were required to move on to the day - to - day session. Can we put this on now? We can, right? Colleagues, then please, please prepare, we have one, two, three, we have seven drafts of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Among them are drafts of great importance, I very much ask everyone to concentrate now, five minutes now there will be a vote, and I will put one after the other. Please come into the hall. First, this is a draft decree on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activities. This draft decree is the request of Parliament and the LNB to impose personal sanctions against Yanukovic and his environment. I think this will be the right step for Parliament before the anniversary of the Dignity Revolution. And it's only suggested to include the agenda of the day session, a colleague, in the agenda of the day session just to include. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, and I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the 5350 draft. Please vote and please support 5350, inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote, colleague, please. [[16:30:18]] For-174 By factions, please turn on. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 61, "Opposition Block" – 0, "Samo help" – 0, "Papačovščina" – 11, "Pradical Party of Oleg Laska – 1, "Rebirth Party" – 0, "Will of the people" – 1. Colleagues, we are moving on to the next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2016 on supporting the strategic sector of Ukraine. Colleagues, this is the bill that envisions support for the southern machinery factory called Makarov. Colleagues came to us and the National Deputies, and the Cabinet of Ministers. Once again, the support of the southern Makarov machine plant is a request to include it in the agenda for making a decision. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on supporting the strategic sector of Ukraine (number 5281), please vote. Please, colleagues, we are voting on the agenda for the decision-making session, please vote. Please vote. [[16:31:55]] For 228 They've put a decision in the agenda. Next, colleagues, I very much want attention and concentration here. The next draft of the Act amending the Law on Public Procurement on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to ensure the preparation and conduct of the Euro-Employment Song Competition in Ukraine in 2017. It's also the question that representatives of the People's Front and other factions have emphasized in their speech, it's a question of the authority of the Ukrainian State. If we don't have time to prepare for Euroworking, this competition can be transferred to another country. I, my colleagues, very much ask everyone to take this vote carefully. And I'm proposing to put in the agenda for the decision-making session, because it needs immediate consideration, immediately, 5319. Please vote and please support. 5319, inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making, colleague. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:33:13]] For 219 I'll do it again. Six votes, I'll do it again, colleagues. [[Noise Nodes]] Mr. Oleg, when I begin this discussion, every faction will take the floor. My colleagues, I would like to reiterate that if we don't take this decision today, under the rules of Euroworking, it will pass to the next state that is in the vote rate on the basis of Euroworking. If we don't vote, we have a risk that Euroworking will go to the Russian Federation. I ask everyone to concentrate, and I ask you to vote again for the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u20	No, we are voting on this bill, and I ask you now to vote, all of you, to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. They just did. Well, it takes a very long time -- the committee's head. The head of the committee, please, for a minute, but very short, very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u21	Dear Mr. Head, dear friends of the people's deputies, I'll brief you on what we've done. We've been working on the bill committee for two years, so it's called "Europe," "Europe" in Ukraine. Since that bill, which was proposed by the authors, we have fully revised it and it has been introduced in exchange. It is now fully in line with the Transparency Procurement Act. What did we do? We've restricted it, only in the final positions will there be a standard for the conduct of tenders in the European procedure. The NCC will create a National Council, such as -- this is recorded in the committee's protocol mandate -- a collective collegiate body will be created with the participation of the representatives of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and NTCC, who will provide, under simplified procedure, the same competitive discriminatory conditions for distribution, to be recognized by the winners of the Eurovision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u22	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u23	The budget for this Euromaking is only 8 million euros. That's why we're here. We have a commission coming to see us in December. If we don't do that, we're threatening to have a Eurowave in Ukraine. I think there's no person here in Parliament who doesn't vote for this bill, because this is our face, this is the face of our Supreme Council, and we have to do everything we can to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u24	Colleagues, please take up your jobs. Let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for the decision of Law 5319: on the conduct in Ukraine in 2017 of the song competition "Europe". Please support and please vote. 5319 is a day-to-day session for decision-making. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:37:11]] For 245 Decision taken. We're going to go straight to the discussion after the end of this block of this question. [[B in m in s a l in]] By factions, well, by factions. Did you see if I should read it? We've seen it. Colleagues, all factions voted in favour, that's a unified question. And I'm asking you to stay put, colleagues. There's going to be a vote every minute. Colleagues, I'd like you to come in and take some jobs. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Assembly. This is a requirement. Ivan Krulko, Fatherland. 5316. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. It didn't end up in the previous package. They ask only to include so that the committees can look into it. So whoever supports the inclusion in the agenda of the 5316 session, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[16:38:30.]] For 204 The decision is not made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues, we're not talking. We're just making decisions, friends. We just make decisions, we don't discuss them. Just as we didn't discuss the Sanctions Act. That's not the way we used to do it when we did it. The Sanctions Act. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act "O. I'm sorry, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons (5317). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. 5317. Please vote. [[16:39:27]] For 219 I'll put it again if someone doesn't make it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it again. So once again, I'm proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on a System of Guarantees for the Investment of Individuals. Please, Krulko, one minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u25	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, these bills are two -- 5316 and 5317 -- supported by representatives of various factions of Parliament. They refer to a very important category of people who had deposits in banks, they're charity funds, like the Bogdan Gavrilishin Foundation, funds that look after the ATO. [[Applause]] In fact, the cost has been lost. They cannot even bring the court to justice, for the judicial congregation they are required to pay is not in their possession. So the question is to get the depositors out of the court, once. And give them the opportunity to move in line to receive compensation for their contributions. Absolutely logical bills. Absolutely right. I ask, Your Honor, the Chief of the Supreme Council, to return to their inclusion in the agenda. And I am convinced that these are the bills that will unite the hall. Let's see what the co-authors are all of the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u26	Thank you. I once again put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons (5317). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[16:41:16]] For 186 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, the last one we have is a draft law recommending the inclusion of the agenda of the session, which is the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the world leaders and all members of the international association on the support of Ildar Dadin and other prisoners of conscience in the Russian Federation and the condemnation of numerous human rights violations in the Russian Federation (5357). It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. Please vote. 5357. Please be supportive. [[16:42:17]] For 213 I'll do it again, another time. Colleagues, please concentrate. This is the protection of our political prisoners, prisoners of conscience in the Russian Federation. This is the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have to support our brothers. And I think in that aspect of the hall it should unite. I'll put the vote again in the agenda for the 5357 session. The Committee's proposal for foreign affairs. Please support, please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session, please. [[16:43:02]] For 221 My colleagues, I'll put it again. Just invite people. Because I see there are people in the room who don't just vote. I'll do it. This is the last time. And we finish the vote. My colleague, therefore, once again puts 5357 on the support of Ildar Dadin and other prisoners of conscience in the Russian Federation and on the condemnation of numerous human rights violations in the Russian Federation of devoid of inclusion in the agenda of the daily session. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[16:43:52]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Why don't you tell me why you didn't make it? And where were you at work when the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine went? Colleagues, under urgent pressure, I'll put it again. And I want to remind you. It's working time at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When we went to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no one warned the voters that we would not be in the hall while we were working. I'll do it again now, Nadia, I'll do it. Mustafa, I'll put it in. I'll put it to the vote now. I'll put it in. You just vote, colleagues. Assemble the deputies and vote. Once again, I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the 5357 draft resolution on the support of Ildar Dadin and other prisoners of conscience in the Russian Federation and the condemnation of numerous human rights violations in the Russian Federation. It is suggested that the agenda of the day be put in order for the committee to consider. Please vote and please, colleagues, support. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:45:21]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. And I remind you, you have to be in the gym at work, you have to work in the hall at work, because our non-participation leads to very bad results in the vote. Colleagues, we've adopted two bills to make decisions. This is a draft of the European Song Competition Act and the draft Act amending the State Budget Act to support Ukraine's strategic sector. I'm putting them right now with the hope that we'll be in the hall and be able to vote and make decisions on them. If there's room support, then we can look at them now. Then we'll continue the block by. A block that infrastructure. Colleagues, so I ask you to vote quickly and in agreement. Besides, colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal that I've made from the very beginning to move one week of plenary January to the end of November of early December. I spoke to many factions yesterday. For us, we lack one week for a full budget. I'm going to suggest that one week from January we move to the end of November the beginning of December. Is that okay with you? Then let me take a vote on that and we'll feel what we're ready to do. So, colleagues, it's proposed. I'll read it under the transcript. "According to the need for a thorough review and adoption of the 2017 State Budget and the importance of the tasks before our Parliament, I propose that, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Rules, you amend the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call to be foreseen. Attention, colleagues! Weeks from 28 November to 2 December to hold plenary meetings. And the plenary week. Attention! January 10th to January 13th to anticipate the work of national deputies with voters. Colleagues, pay attention! From January 10 to 13, we work with voters, and we carry the plenary to the end of November, the beginning of December. I think it's going to be the general position of all deputies, we're missing a week to adopt a budget, a colleague. So once again, the work week that we have on the calendar from January 10th to January 13th, we're doing electoral work. And this week we're moving to the end of November, the beginning of December. Do you understand or do you copy? We're carrying the week of January, and, excuse me, it's the exact time when the New Year's Day is here, and when there's a lot of people in the regions, at the end of November, December. It seems to me that this is a unifying position. Do you understand, colleagues? Please, colleagues, it's a week a week. Who supports this proposal, colleagues, please vote and please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote, and I ask you to support this proposal. Please vote, colleagues. Let's go to the vote. [[16:49:17]] For-189 There is no such decision in the hall, no such support. We're moving on to the two agenda issues that we've put in the agenda. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to ensure the preparation and conduct of the Euro-Employment Song Competition in Ukraine in 2017. Please support the proposal to review this law with a reduced procedure, please vote, please support. [[16:50:01]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u27	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! With your permission, I'll be speaking with the committee and author Gregory Sverk. You are invited to support Bill 5319. Dear friends, the Economic Policy Committee recommends that Parliament support the bill on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u28	Thank you. Please, two for, two for against. From the "Will of the People" group, Long Oles Stanislavovich. Please, Mr. Olese.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u29	Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we have considered this question twice in the last two years, and we have given it a lot of attention. Of course, it can't be a constant practice, but given that "Europe," as the committee head said, is the face and the whole country, and especially us, as legislators, who will then be held accountable if the execution takes place. So I ask everyone to pay attention to this bill and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u30	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Kudlainko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u31	Please pass the word to Sevraykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, the faction of Peter Prashenko will vote in favour of this bill. And what I mean is it's too late to talk about why we're preparing so late for Eurobending. But if we don't accept this bill today, we won't be able to make the purchase in time, we're threatening a competition in Ukraine. This has been discussed many times today. If we can't provide, and by the beginning of December we're going to have a European language community and we're going to have to make the final decision about the Euroworking, then we're going to risk losing it, and Russia is going to run it. I don't think we can let that happen. And everyone who votes today has to realize that. So I ask, once again, that the faction of Peter Dustenk will support this bill. I offer to support him in the first reading and in general today. And I ask that the speaker put to the vote, being sure that we have the votes in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u33	Thank you. I'm sure your faction and others are fully mobilized under such an important bill. I'm sure everyone will come into the room right now and get ready for the vote, and they'll take part in it. The closing statement is by Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. There will be a decision in two minutes, please come into the hall. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u34	Pinzenik's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u35	Victor Pinzenik's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u36	Dear Head, dear colleagues! We have adopted the Law on Public Procurement, which regulates transparent procurement procedures and is one of the achievements that, thanks to God, has been approved by Parliament. Today on the calendar of November. Euroworking will take place in May. What prevents the sale of tenders in six months? Maybe for someone 8 million euros it's not money, but it's Ukrainian citizens' money, it's 250 million dollars. I don't think there's any obstacle to running transparent selection procedures, a transparent tender, and spending this money on transparent competitive conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u37	Thank you. From the People's Front, Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u38	Victor Mikhailovich, you know how much I respect you, and I can't disrespect you, but in this case we've been approached by NTU, and by an organization, a social language that has to conduct this competition. And these reduced procedures are required by the European Language Association. I trust Max Nephrodov, who worked on this bill. I trust the council, which will be created by representatives of parliament, government and the public, and which will look at the exceptions that will have to be made by the tenders faster than it sometimes takes more time for the Euroworking to pass. Let's make this one exception, I agree with you, the purchases will take place under the ProZorro system, I emphasize. It's a matter of the country's honour, and we have no right to disgrace it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u39	Thank you. All the factions who wished took the floor. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, and a decision will take place in a minute. One more minute, please, Deputy Sverk, and let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! I want to say that Deputy Minister of Economics Max Nepheods took part in the consideration of this issue at the Economic Policy Committee meeting. And he, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, had no objection to solving this issue in this way, because he also sees problems if the purchases of "Europe" are to be carried out in accordance with the procedures currently established by the Procurement Act. So unfortunately, it's necessary to make this exception for Euroworking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u41	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Everyone, please take up their jobs and prepare to make a decision. Please, let's go in and take jobs. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I am voting on a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to ensure the preparation and conduct of the Euro-Employment Song Competition in Ukraine in 2017 (number 5319). All the explanations were given, this is the general position of both the committee, and the ministries, and all the factions. And, colleagues, I am now asking you to take the responsibility of voting and supporting 5319 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please support, please vote. [[16:58:43]] For 229 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee. I know that the committee did a very difficult and difficult job, and we were able to get to the bottom of it. Next, on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 on supporting the strategic sector of Ukraine. [[Noise Nodes]] You agree, this is a question you agreed on? We agreed, yes, 5281 I ask to vote first for the shorter procedure, 5281, the shorter procedure. The performances will be here soon. Please be supportive. [[16:59:35]] For-195 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the committee head. I'd like to invite Mr. Krivenk's deputy head of the Budget Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Many of my colleagues know that I worked for four years as deputy director-general of the South German Agency, working as deputy head of the Space Agency, and in 2009, we were able to adopt a reform programme for the South German and the KGB. This was then approved by the government. Regrettably, after Janukovich’s victory, this command was issued in Leto and nothing was actually done to reform these two businesses. And now all the colleagues who are in the room know the state in which our leading space venture is located. This bill is called upon to solve one of the problems of this enterprise. We're not the only ones with this problem. The same is Law 5113, which cheats on the debt owed to Minfin, which was filed by Oleg Lošek and Julia Timoshenko, who I will also ask to put into the agenda as soon as possible, and perhaps after this law to put it into the draft day session and to vote. This bill allows us to solve the issue of electricity. It's supported by the Ministry of Finance, it doesn't require additional funding, because it's going to be a source of debt repayment, of a restructured debt of coal enterprises, that is, it's actually going to be a mutual account. Costs will go to the South, they'll go to Oblenergo, Energy, Energy, and the Coal Company, and they'll go right back to the state budget. I think this bill will unite our entire hall. I also urge all colleagues to discuss what will be on our budget committee next week on space issues. I ask my colleagues to support this bill, it is very important. The company is working one day for today, electricity is being delivered with major disruptions. Just because there's a substation in the factory, because the factory is asking about some of the Dniper population, this company is now having electricity. Similarly, we have a major problem with the self - destruction of Russia’s direction and the Russian market. And now we need to support the Southern. Dear colleagues, very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Okay. We don't have the Rules here. There's no co-op right now. Please sign up for factions: two fors, two againsts. Mr. Krivenko, you can sit in your workplace. And please, the record is being discussed. Please, from the "will of the people" group, Olesia Long. Olesz Long from the "will of the people" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u44	Long, "The will of the people." Dear colleagues, this is an important law that can preserve and enable one of the few pearls of Ukrainian manufacturing potential, and we are simply obliged to adopt this law. I would like to say that this law is only part of the restoration of the work of the South. And in order for us to fully support it, I ask you to pay attention to Law 5113 of Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko on a comprehensive approach to solving the issues and problems that have now arisen around this plant. The rest of the time -- two minutes -- I'm handing Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u45	It is not possible to pass on the word under the Rules. You can't say a word under the Rules! Next, please, this is from the People's Front, the People's Deputy of Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u46	Dear fellow national MPs! Of course, Parliament should help an enterprise, a leading rocket company, to eliminate those debts that resulted from free space management. and the construction office, which is the principal cost manager, which allows itself to save about one and a half billion dollars in private banks without paying the factory on time and counting. Thus, there has been a build-up of debt for electricity, and now Parliament, and at the expense of taxpayers, has to solve this problem. First of all, as a parliament, we need to understand why there are still leaders in office who allow many billions of projects to fail to be implemented, not to be held accountable. Because by putting hundreds of millions of dollars of government funds into this space sector, we don't have a result. We have no first result for our country. I'm paying attention to Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, to finally face it, to see what's going on. Why aren't all the projects implemented, starting with Cyclone-4, Libidy, Sapsanou and others? Why are those who have failed to bring the projects to a logical conclusion and to a useful end not punished? Why do they continue to remain in office, unpunished, these free leaders? And after we figure out how the competitions will appoint project managers, we can allocate the necessary funds and benefit our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. The Juric People's Deputies pass the word to Maxim Smoker of "Peter Prashenko's Block." From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! The issue of the existence of a missile-space sector in Ukraine is on the agenda. The question on the agenda is whether Ukraine will be considered not a word, but a missile-space state. This bill is our joint acquisition of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. Many true patriotic Ukrainian parties and factions support this high-profile missile-space state, which is Ukraine. I am very grateful for the cooperation of all colleagues who, not by word of mouth, are doing things that prove that "the Southman" is an outstanding Ukrainian enterprise. I want to remind everyone where this huge debt of electricity came from in the South. And the thing is, the Russian Federation, when it did war against Ukraine, when it annexed our territory, and Crimea, and Donbas, then they stopped paying for their jobs. In the Southwest warehouses, there are those manufactured means, those rockets, those manufactured details that just didn't count on us to be an enemy country. Why are people here? What's the business for? That's why, colleagues, no doubt, we continue to save the South Car Factory. We continue to provide defence orders for our rocket-space enterprises. And the Southman, and the KGB, and the Pavlovgrad chemical plant. Dear colleagues, I assure you that once we have adopted a whole set of laws that support our space shuttle, Putin will eat his hat! So we all vote unanimously. This law awaits an enterprise, and this law awaits a multi-million - dollar labor force. Thank you for your attention. We're voting yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u49	Thank you, colleague. Please, from Fatherland, the word is given to the People's Deputy Alexander Kugel from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u50	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Once again, I'm paying attention to the validity. And so that we can still understand what regulation is and respect for other colleagues in Parliament. Bill 5113 was in order during the day of that session. At the beginning of the new session, we reregistered it, signed it: Timoshenko, Kugel, Lazko Oleg, and Galasjuk. And we registered him again. He has all the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers positive. He was supported by the committee. But they don't. Today, only this bill is being considered urgently. I want to say it out loud. We need to adopt this bill. And now we're going to look very briefly, we're talking to Halasuk right now, and I'm ready to report to him about supporting the restructuring of the debt on the loan to the South. And start work at the Yusmash factory in Dnipropetrovsk, in our country. A few weeks ago, we met with the workers of this factory. Dear friends, they work in camps where temperatures are minus six degrees! They asked you to remind them all of this. And they said who wants to support them can buy tractors from them. They have very good products. Buy everyone in your village or your district and you will have real support for this factory. In fact, they make very beautiful solar batteries. So let's vote on this bill. Now let's look at 5113. There's a change, two lines. And today we will consider it a very good day to support the Ukrainian manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, now one single performance will be from the Radical Party faction, and we'll move on to the vote, colleagues. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their seats. Two minutes like the other factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u52	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'd like to inform the employees of the famous Southmash company that my life, my heart, has been connected to them since far back in 2008. Then, in 2008, the representative of the Space Agency, Victor Krivenko, came to see me, and we got together in the budget for the allocation of 47 apartments to young Southerners. Last year, at the request of Maxim Chicken, I supported the bill in Parliament, and we released the land tax and saved 90 million dollars for the company. The Radical Party faction will also support this law, which is now being considered to write off the debt owed to the South German. My friends, I will open my heart to you and I will tell you why we support the Southern. Yesterday we voted with you on the Ukrainian Employment Act in Israel. With all due respect to Israel and the Ukrainians in Israel, I want my Ukrainians to have jobs in Ukraine, in Dniper, in Zaporozhye, in Mariupol, in Chernig, all the way to a smoking house. That's why we support the Northman. "Southern" is a pearl. Ukraine is one of the few countries that has a space sector. How can we destroy it with our own hands? Or, for example, Harkovsky Turboat, one of the five companies in the world that manufacture turbines and want to privatize and destroy it. Why? Because today’s leaders of the plebeia, the mancure, the periphery without memory, the tribe, because they do not realize that a strong, successful country is when Ukrainians have a job, when we overcome poverty, when every Ukrainian family has a decent income and will feed their children. This is the Radical Party program.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'd like to inform you that "inclusion in the agenda of the day session" has been a proposition from all factions: and from the faction of the Fatherland, from the People's Front, from the block of Peter Prashenko. He's been on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since yesterday. I can't put another bill out of my voice right now. Bring him in, I'll put him in next time. I say the order of the day session is today, he's been since yesterday, he should have come up and said, let me know. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Budget for 2016 to support the strategic sector of Ukraine (5281) to propose a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, colleagues. [[17:13:48]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now we have information from two factions, they have learned. Yes, the law is passed, the decision is made. Now, colleagues, from two factions, there's information that two factions, after reviewing the proposals for changes to the calendar plan, have decided to support these changes. Is that what I'm saying? So, colleagues, I'm stressing once again what the logic of these changes is in the calendar plan. We're one week away from the new year so that we can get through the budget at all its stages. A proposal is made: one week in plenary from January, from January 10 to January 13, to be transferred as a plenary on November 28 – December 2. Colleagues, do you understand the position? It's just inside the session, we're carrying the plenary weeks. And working with voters is not going to be November 28th, it's going to be January 10th-13th. Can I vote? Then I ask everyone to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I can put it at any stage, please prepare. I am voting once again on the proposal to change the calendar plan so that the week from 28 November to 2 December will be plenary, and from 10 January to 13 January will be the work of the national MPs with the electorate. Whoever supports these changes to the calendar plan, please vote, please support. It will be wise, fellow believers, believe, wise, vote, fellow workers. Please vote, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:16:04]] For 196 The decision is not made. No voices. So, colleagues, attention, colleagues, please, in the peace room, please. We're now, colleagues, I'm still making the final offer, and we're moving on to infrastructure issues, and we're still going to be able to consider a few more bills. The last proposal from the trade unions that asked me from the miners to put forward the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (for state support for state-owned coal companies to partially cover the costs of the value of finished coal production). So I suggest you put it up in order of the day session. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 4744. Anyone who supports the proposal for us to put it next, please vote. [[17:17:21]] For 209 The decision is not made. Let's move on to the agenda, and I invite you, now we have the next 4121 bill, but the bill's author, Igor Vasilovich Vasjunik, asked you to withdraw it. One minute, Igor Vasjunik. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, given that this bill is actually revolutionary and it is a real reform in the field of public transport, I have information that the Opposition Block will not vote in favour of this bill, and unfortunately today there is no self-help faction that is constantly plentiful on an electronic ticket. So I would like to move this bill to the next meeting of the Supreme Council in order not to overthrow this very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u55	So the author is making a copy of Bill 4121. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u56	You can't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u57	Guys, can't the author just take it off?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u58	No, he can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u59	Colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote a motion to withdraw draft Law 4121 at the request of the author of the bill. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support the drafter. Please vote. [[17:19:11]] For 171 There'll be a discussion, you'll speak. So let's go to Project 4121, the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated payment system in urban passenger transport. And the report invites Ukrainian national deputy Vasjunik Igor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u60	Thank you. Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, a bill is being tabled for Parliament, which allows for the introduction of an electronic ticket in public transport. Moreover, this will make the public transport system work effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u61	I'm sorry, Mr. Igor, I'm sorry to interrupt. I didn't put in short notice. Before the report starts, I'm voting on his motion to review the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. [[17:20:19]] For 171 Decision taken. Please report to Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill will make the public transport system work efficiently and transparently, as it works in all the civilized countries of the world. So the bill proposes a legislative arrangement for the introduction of an electronic ticket in urban passenger transport by first decentralization of all necessary powers of local self-government. In particular, implement and independently determine the order of operation of the automated system of payment of fares; establish types of media, order of circulation and registration of travel documents; identify the person authorized to carry out customs duties for transport services and the approved rules for the use of urban passenger transport. The other one. The requirement for passengers to register travel documents when the ASP is in place and administratively responsible for its failure. Establishing the obligation of electronic payment tickets for servicemen at locations where an automated payment system is in place for passenger transport. The commitment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within three months from the date of the publication of the law, to develop and establish the arrangements for the interaction of local self - government authorities and social protection agencies with regard to the provision of benefits by electronic tickets at locations where an automated payment system has been introduced in urban transport. What will result from the introduction of this law? First of all, it's a higher level of safety on the road, because the driver will monitor safety and traffic, not fare. It's accounting for the real passenger flow, it's optimizing routes, it's fighting corruption and getting money out of the shadows, it's introducing convenient ways to pay for travel, either by bank card or by mobile phone, or by any other means, it's a real reform, in accordance with the European principles that it will have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u63	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u64	Which will have a real impact across the country. The bill worked in a working group at the Transport Committee with the participation of directors of municipal and private transport companies in many Ukrainian cities – Vinnica, Kyiv, Kharkiv, Lviv, Ternopil, Odessa, Chernigu, Kamyanec Podilski, Kramatorsk, Bila Church. The project has been joined by virtually all deputies of almost all factions. Thank you, Oksani Jurinec. Thank you, Mikoli Kadikalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u65	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u66	A respected leader, respected colleagues, passenger transport is what most Ukrainians use every day. Unfortunately, today we have outdated fare systems, worn-out car parks, misuse of false travel documents, constant stops, delays in compensation for the transport of firecrackers. What does the bill (code 4121) propose? Creating conditions for the introduction of an automated payment system in urban passenger transport This, among other things, will allow you to modernize the calculation, keep a close eye on the passenger flow, and accurately account for the services that are actually provided from passenger and passenger transport. I must point out that given the relevance of the topic, there were two bills to the Transport Committee for the introduction of an electronic ticket, by the way, both of the representatives of Lviv. The first is the authorship of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oksana Jurinec, and the second is from the National Deputy, Igor Vasyunika. Yet, thanks to our well - thought - out position, we were able to reach a compromise and get out on the only document that we had worked out. The committee then recommends that the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the introduction of an automated payment system for travel in urban passenger transport (number 4121) be adopted as a basis and as a whole taking into account all legal and technical rights. Dear colleagues, please support. All cities look forward to this important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u67	Thank you, Chief Committee for Transport Dubnewich Jaroslav. And please record two for, two for against, please. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u68	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I don't see a government representative. Oh, I've seen it. Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Omelyan, report the Law on Electronic Tickets. And you know that your grandfather, your grandmother in the village doesn't have any electronics or paper, because you, your government, have deprived citizens of the possibility of using public transportation. Today, a miserable woman who has been buried in a village, near a cow, sitting on a tractor, being pushed off a bus like the last bum! And they say: "Go to the hospital." Man has a fever, man has a headache, man has a heart! And you say to her, "Go on foot to the hospital." And orphans who have to be brought to the next village to school because you parasites have closed the budget for the economy! You also tell them, children with disabilities, "go on foot to the next school." And in the winter those poor children are walking in the woods, wolves running after them from all sides! And they're walking through the woods because of you, because there's nothing to bring those kids! So you're not talking about electronic tickets, you're talking about infrastructure restoration. To every village to repair the road, a bus will be taken to every village. You, when you shut down the FAP or the hospital in the village, put a ambulance with a battery, with new winter wheels, so people don't take money to get to the hospital. That's when you make my peasants a normal life, when you don't kick your pensioners out of public transportation in cities, then we'll talk to you about electronic tickets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u69	Ivchenko Vadim, faction of Fatherland, please. He's handing over Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u70	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In fact, you can talk about different stories, appeal to the government, talk about what carriers have added to the local budgets that have to be found in local budgets, in villages. You can talk about a grandmother who can't get through. But at the same time, vote for the budget and appeal to the government. Among today's package of bills that have been submitted to Parliament as an "infrastructural day" is probably the only normal light bill to which there are no questions, because this automation system, which introduces an electronic ticket, gives local communities the right to apply or not to apply it. That's the mechanism. The city heads clearly consider, approve all routes, talk about how transport works in their cities, villages, and the territorial communities they lead. I also want to say that we're going to vote, "Fatherland," in the first reading, and I want to warn the authors that whatever it is, we'd like to hear why, how is the justification for the increase in fines going to be done? One second. There is a need to create transitional positions for those carriers for which competitions have already taken place and for them to carry them out. Mustafi Najemu, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u71	Thank you. There were no offensive remarks. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'll end up with a line. Okay. So, Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich of the Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u72	Please pass the word to Sergio Kudlainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's face it, this is not what happened today, but it's out of date. The authorities of the local self - government themselves turn to Kabmin to speed up the procedure for the introduction of electronic tickets. They are willing to introduce automated electronic means of paying for the cost of transportation in the city. But they don't have a legal way of implementing it. In view of this, the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block" has decided to support this bill and accept it as a basis. By enacting this law, we are allowing cities to self-organize the implementation of this kind of urban transportation bill. So we're going to have an invaluable experience already, on which we can implement a unified system of automated payment and traffic control on all modes of transport. In addition, the economic component of the bill needs to be highlighted because if it is adopted and the electronic ticket is launched, there will be real mechanisms for combating the shadow flow of funds in urban passenger transport. The Peter Prashenko faction calls for a session hall to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u74	The word is from the People's Front to Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u75	Please turn on Mr. Burbak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I would like you all to be supported by this bill, which is very important. Remember, 2.5 years ago all of us together, members of the coalition that elected the coalition government, the government of Yatsenuk, began the process of budgetary decentralization. We passed on taxes and responsibilities to local levels. Then comes the process of unifying the territorial communities. And we all voted for it. This is another example of what we're passing on to places of authority and giving local communities the opportunity to keep an electronic bill and an electronic ticket called an electronic ticket. This will one more time confirm the thesis that we're passing on budgetary authority to the places. And no one will say that the budget does not compensate for the difference in transport tariffs. Because it's going to be a real calculation. So I can say, as former Infrastructure Minister in 2014, that the government budget was indemnifying the full volume of transport. Because even at 60 percent it was full-scale compensation. Because there is no electronic database. We don't know how many tips we drive. Because all of this is calculated by a formula that is out of date. And this process right now, the electronic ticket, is going to give us an opportunity to automate and see the actual number of people who are going to get this benefit. And this is going to be the future monetaryization of the benefits. I'm addressing the Self-Help faction, which was also the initiator of this process. Because in Lviv it is also necessary to introduce it. And I think, as my previous colleagues have used, I'm asking you to give a replica of Mr. Igor Vasyunika, who, in the absence of the Self-Help faction, who does not support this bill in this room with his insolent behavior, will finally be able to defend the interests of Lviv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u77	Colleagues. The factions spoke. Now it's me, the liner, Mustafa Najem, one minute, Vasjunik, one minute. And in two minutes. And a Jew. Okay. Colleagues, now three lines in one minute. So Mustafa is a minute, Vasjunik is a minute, Jurinec is a minute? and proceed to the vote. Colleagues. There will be a vote in three minutes, please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Mustafa Najem, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u78	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I would like to refer to you for inclusion in the agenda of Bill 4812, which gives the National Anti-Corruption Bureau the right to self-examination. As far as I know, this bill has also supported European society, and including as far as I know, there's a letter from the US Embassy to lead the People's Front faction and the Peter Prashenko Block to support this bill. If possible, let's put it into the agenda, because it's part of our strategy to make the NABA finally independent and get the opportunity to download information from the telecommunications network on its own without interfering with the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u79	Thank you. I remind you that this bill should be discussed in the discussion. Indeed, I received such a letter. I also passed this letter to the faction of Peter Prashenko, and I passed it on to the faction of the People's Front for consideration. Yeah, that's right. The faction raises the question as soon as the faction decides, I'm going to put it in the order of the day session. Please, Igor Vasjunik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 4121 is not just a law, it's a real reform in local public transport, it's a real decentralization. Those cities that implement the introduction of an electronic ticket, first of all, they get a real picture of private carriers, how much private carriers are based on tariffs, they get a real picture of how people use the mode of transport. With regard to utilities, we're going to get a real picture of how correct the subsidies from the utility budget are. It's very important. This law supports 15 district governments, virtually all the major cities of Ukraine. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u81	Please, give me a minute, Juryn. And let's go to the vote. Let's go into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u82	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I sincerely ask you to do your vote for it today. Because it's not really a fear, it's going to be a monetaryization of all the benefits. This will be an opportunity for people, really, to see who is driving this urban transport and who is not using it, then they can get another compensation. This is an important first step that will show us that we are ready to count every penny in this country. I very much ask, in spite of the political views, the interests in this room, the support of cities, the support of our citizens who want to organize and drive, and the provision of European services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u83	Thank you. So let's move on to the decision-making process. And I'm betting on the vote. I have already invited five of them, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. I am voting on a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of an automated system for the calculation of travel costs in urban passenger transport (number 4121). Colleagues, I'll just lay the groundwork. I'm asking you to back everyone up on the ground. If there are any corrections, you can make it between the first and the second readings. Colleagues, I ask you to support everyone who has had critical remarks. I ask you to vote 4,121 as a basis, colleagues, support, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[17:38:24]] For 227 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters of the bill, welcome to the committee with a fruitful, successful job. Colleagues, we've got two more bills coming along. I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (No. 4660). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support, summary procedure 4660, vote. [[17:39:05]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Burbak Maxim Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u84	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend the Law on Road Transport in Ukraine (resistance of the weighty or gauged rules and conditions set out in the permit to participate in road traffic) (response number 4660). The bill provides for the introduction of a shared responsibility for a car carrier, a driver of a transport vehicle, a freight forwarder or a commercial broker, a broker, a freight forwarder and a trucker or an authorized person for violating the means of transport established by the legislation of weight and volume. For motorists, it is obvious that trucks whose weights exceed the permitted standards destroy roadways, turning them into dangerous roads. And we can allocate millions, billions of dollars to repair roads, but they'll never be enough as long as the weight and gauge standards are broken, and no one will be responsible. Infringements in weight and dimensions are caused even during loading. But today, shippers and truckers are not obliged to take precautionary measures to prevent this overload, nor do they have any responsibility in the event that the means of transport are breached. Moreover, the carrier driver has no legitimate grounds for refusing the shipper and the carrier to carry out the transport, even if its means of transport are loaded with excesses, set weights or gauges, or in violation of the conditions set out in the road traffic permit. Dear colleagues, the bill will then oblige the freight forwarder to monitor compliance with the rules laid down by law when the car is loaded. A shipper is also responsible for violating such standards. At the same time, the carrier driver is given the right to verify the weight parameters of loading the vehicle, to require the load mass to be brought to the relevant standards and the right to refuse transport if the gauge-weighted standards when loaded are violated. I would like to support you because this bill is very important. We can repair, build new roads. But if.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u85	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u86	But if every day they don't destroy them, we can't do it. We see what the roads of Mikolayevščina have become, where the roads of the Chernovetsek region and any area in Ukraine have become. We can set aside trillions of bracelets, nothing will happen until the unstoppable carriers bear full responsibility for the overload. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u87	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u88	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The proposed bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (for compliance with weighty or haphazard standards or conditions set out in the road traffic permit) (registration number 4660, from 2.09.2016) has been further developed and is essential for the economy of the State and especially for the road economy, as it is aimed at preserving the roadways of general use and using them according to the technical conditions of operation. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. The bill proposes to complement legislation with new concepts: "shipper of cargo", "participant of road transport", to introduce a rule on the rights and obligations of the carrier driver, freight forwarder, and to place administrative and economic responsibility for exceeding the volume and weight standards not only on the car carrier, but also on the driver of the trucker and the shipper. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has noted that the bill contains a number of technical, legal and proposed regulations. In conclusion, the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee indicated that it met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. By decision of the Transport Committee of 02.11.2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was recommended to adopt draft Law registration number 4660 as a basis. Please support the adoption of Bill 4660 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u89	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. From the "Block of Peter Prashenko" – Rybak Ivan Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u90	Please give the floor to our fellow national MP, Dekhtyarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u91	The Peter Prashenko faction supports the adoption of this bill. In most cases, the danger of road traffic in Ukraine was caused by a lack of proper control over freight traffic. Since this year the government has been focusing attention and has already begun to rebuild roads throughout Ukraine. But everything will be useless if the cargo control system does not function properly. The bill is called upon to establish clear rules of the game, to limit the responsibility of carriers and those to whom the cargo belongs. To date, the fine for exceeding the cargo rules is quite large, with two thousand living minimums equivalent to 34,000 dollars. But there is no clear mechanism for bringing these fines and identifying the perpetrators of such violations. In view of this, the Peter Prashenko faction supports the adoption of this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u92	Thank you. Radical Party, Lensky Alexiyyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u93	Please pass the word to Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u95	The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk, Yuri Chižmar Clearly, our faction will support this law. Road farming, roads and road painting, and all the infrastructure on the road is state or municipal property. And for damage to this property, the guilty party must compensate the state. So, in fact, the condition of roads in Ukraine is so bad that if we do not keep them, it is clear that the cost will never be enough. I remember the road that we repaired in 2008. And in three days, the giants -- 40 tons of agrarian cars -- drove through them, carrying the barrels, destroyed a road that was then spent nearly half a million dollars from the local budget. Obviously, this will hit agriculture somewhere, because today in those population areas where agriculture is, let's say, in rural areas, agriculture is the main problem. But I think that the mutual responsibility for the state of the road should be borne by manufacturers -- those who serve careers, those who serve agricultural enterprises. That's why this law may be difficult for some people, but assuming that the roads, the rural ones, have to go to schools, that there should be "fast help" to the appropriate treatment facilities, because unfortunately we have a very old population in the villages, so that's why this law is absolutely necessary. And anyone who owns the transport must guard state and municipal property. Clearly, our faction will uphold this law, and it calls upon the entire hall to support it in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u96	Thank you. Please, Gusak Vladimir Georgievich. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u97	Honourable Ukrainians, honourable fellow MPs, your Honourable Head! The Opposition Block supports high-quality and safe roads in Ukraine. We voted in favour of the road fund bill today when some of the deputies simply refused to work and left the hall. And we are in favour of ensuring that the money that Ukrainians spend on repairing roads is not wasted, and these roads are not destroyed. And we also want to take Ukrainian roads by law and by law. And so that the machines that can take up to 40 tons of axle loads do not leave with 80 tons. By the way, it's right to count the axle load. And if I have another performance, I'll tell you more about it. But this bill will not remove overloaded cars from our roads. To achieve this, you need to focus on the main thing. First. This is effective control and detection of overloaded cars on the road. The other one. This is punishment, fines that will make overload economically unusable. And the third. This is the inevitability of this punishment. But there is no such thing in this bill. Instead, a series of concepts are introduced, so - called motorists. It's both a car carrier, and a truck driver, and a cargo owner, and a freighter, and even a trucker. And all of them are, in one way or another, offered to be responsible for breaking weight standards. Dear colleagues, where there are formally many responsible, there will in fact be no responsible ones. Can I have 10 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u98	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u99	That's why this bill doesn't solve the problem. We're not voting for him. Instead, we suggest that we focus on drafting a new bill that will make it so that when a car is detected with overload, someone will probably have to sell it to pay the fines. And only then will this problem be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u100	Thank you. From Fatherland, Sobolev Sergey is handing over Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u101	After Maidan, when we appointed Mr. Burbak as Minister of Transport, we also very much calculated that one of the issues would really be keeping order on Ukrainian roads. I realize that not everything was in his power. But when prices went up. Dear new minister! It's a very balanced question. They just picked up the prices of the Crucifixion, they all took the roads. Look at the Dnipropetrovsk-Nicopol road, it's gone, because they're driving pipes by car, not by rail. And the same thing that affects our grain traders. And anyone. If you are again considering raising these tariffs, set normal tariffs on the railway, and set up control. I support the last speaker. There is no control system here. Because I can tell you that today they're ignoring, driving weights, not hanging, not paying fines. Today it is, but it doesn't work. That the bill is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that responsibility is shared not only by the person who warms the load but also by the carrier. Excuse me. Here it is suggested that you give up the load. Where did you see the possibility today in such difficult times that carriers would give up their jobs? He'll risk driving. Only the owner of the cargo must bear responsibility and create conditions so that there is no overload. I think the bill is necessary, but it needs to be sent for finalization, a European bill to be drafted, and it needs to be compared, and it needs to be brought into line with the price of the Crossroads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u102	Thank you. And I give you my word, one more minute. Maxim Burbak, please. Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all of you to support this bill. Because it's very necessary. Yes, there are certain fears. But between the first and the second readings, they can be removed. The previous speakers said that the only responsibility now lies with the trucker. I want to fix you. Now all the responsibility for a carrier that the truckers try to tempt is, "Man, here's 100 tons worth of money. And if you spend one flight or four, we don't care." And you know, there's a transport consignment note that says 60 tons of grain was loaded into the vehicle! It is also the responsibility of those who tempt drivers. Even the owner of the vehicle does not know that the driver is involved in the creation of the crime. Let's vote. And all the fears between the first and the second readings can be taken away. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u104	Yes, from "Rebirth" Kiss, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! Dear friends, our constituents! That way we can talk about any issue that is up to date and requires a solution! I won't be long. Many words were said about the reconstruction of the Odessa-Rani road. The capital has already been made more than 100 kilometres. But today, more trucks just started burying this road. I strongly request, and our parliamentary group will vote by 100 per cent to support this proposal under this bill. If we do not take any action, we will never make it to Ukraine. I am convinced that today and here in this room we can find very many commas; we can compare very many questions, where good and where bad. This should be left alone, and now we call on everyone to vote in favour of the proposed bill on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. During the discussion, a number of critical comments were made. Colleagues, I want to tell you, the vote will be based solely on the vote. We can take all the critical notes into account between the first and the second readings. And so I have a request that we allow the law to be redrafted, it will only vote as a basis. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, based on the Committee's proposal (4660) on a basis. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please. [[17:55:37]] For 211 211. I'm going to put the next proposal, a colleague, which was sounded by the Fatherland faction, into the committee for further work. Do I get it right? It's a committee to work on. Colleagues, please concentrate, please come into the hall so that we don't lose the bill, because everyone has recognized its importance, but it needs work. I will put to the vote the proposal to submit to the committee a draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act (number 4660). To be sent to the committee for further work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues, and please support this proposal so that we do not lose the bill. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:56:42]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, tell me we have three minutes. Changes in the calendar plan still make sense to bet or not? I'm going to put it again, colleagues, because the MPs aren't all oriented at first. I'll explain the logic again. Everyone, please come into the hall. So, my colleagues, I'm going to explain again the logic to us in order to be able to pay attention, attention, so that we can go through the budget in all the stages provided for in the law, it takes another plenary week before the new year. We have set an ambitious goal of going through the Rules in clearly defined terms, which is why we lack one week before the new year. The proposal is to move the plenary week to the end of November, the beginning of December, the colleague. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and support this proposal, which is that the plenary week of January, from January 10th to January 13th, which was plenary, make the election week, and November 21st and December 2nd, which was supposed to be the voter's job, make the plenary. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I'm voting on this proposal, the changes to the calendar plan, for 2017. I ask you to support these proposals to the calendar plan and please vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:58:39]] For-167 No desire to work for a week longer, dear colleagues. By factions? May I show you, "Peter Poshenko's Block" - 80, "The People's Front" - 53, "The Opposition Block" - 0, "The Self-Help" - 0, "The Father's Party" - 2, Radical Party Laska - 16, Rebirth Party - 0, "The Will of the People" - 7. Dear colleagues! It's been a difficult day for us, an emotional, stressful day, we haven't been able to consider all the drafts from the transport and infrastructure bloc, we're going to take these questions that we haven't considered on this day over the next week, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, we're going to continue the debate next plenary week. Next plenary week, we will continue our consideration of your drafts. I think, literally on Tuesday afternoon, I'm asking you to prepare yourself so there's no risk, but we've been able to adopt a lot of important laws this day. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed, and tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. we will continue our work, I ask everyone to arrive at the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine at 10 a.m. Thank you.
