ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Ten years. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Dear colleagues, can we make a registration? So, colleagues, please hold the registration. And I'd like the National Deputies to sign up. Please register, colleagues. [[10:03:37]] 349 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Anatoliyevich Matviyenkov. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] Also today is the Day of Marines of Ukraine Colleague, and I want to remind you that in 2014, Marines in practice proved their motto "Faithful Always." After the occupation of Crimea by the Russian occupying forces, more than 200 Marines did not betray their oath and returned to unoccupied territory. And that same year, in 2014, they took the lead where in Donetsk and Lugansk region they fought the Moscow invaders, and today they're holding the most complex part of the front of the defense of the native land from the Russian aggressors. And the next time the Marines win, another slogan is, "Where we are, there's victory." We're proud of our Marines. Let's welcome them together. [[Applause]] Let the bullets avoid them, and let our boys win. Today, too, a professional festival is celebrated by radio, television, and communications workers. And we want to welcome them too. Your work of reporting information to people is very important. And I want to remind you that this war led against us by a Russian aggressor is one of the main dimensions of information, and you are the fighters of the information front. We are proud of your work and we wish you victory, and we are convinced that by working together, we will all win together. And we welcome you, informers, to a professional festival. With a holiday, my friends! [[Applause]] Colleagues, according to the Rules, we now have half an hour of speeches by national deputies. I emphasize, not factions, but people's deputies. Tuesday we have a faction speech and Wednesday we have a national deputy. And I'd like to ask everyone to prepare for the recording, who wants to participate in the discussion. And, colleagues, please record. Please record the performance. My colleagues, on the board, my colleagues, there's nothing on the board. You do too, don't you? Colleagues, Apparatus, we're going to do the recording again. I'm asking you to take technical problems off. I'm sorry, I'll explain technically what's going on. Now let's do it again, let me get this straight. Wait a second, the Council system is overloading. Colleagues, there's been a breakdown, a hacker attack that we've successfully launched, and we're going through a counterattack. And I ask you to record again, please prepare and please record. It's all on the board. Colleagues, Krivohatko Vadim Viktorovich, Block of Petra Dustenka, please. Please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Chairman! I want to draw your attention to the complex situation in Zaporozhye in the district hospital. Today. In 2015, an angiographer was purchased from the local budget, an x - ray device worth over a million dollars. When the investigation began, it was found that this angiograph cost $300,000, significantly reducing the amount counted from the state budget. Several searches were carried out, documents found showing who, who, how much had been given for this angiographer, and other activities carried out in the district hospital. To date, the chief physician has been in office for almost a year and a half. He frees people who witness in the NAB, who witness to the employees of the UBU. And it's been a while. Once a month, there's some kind of money being removed there. And yet, he continues to work in this position. This person, I don't know, has to have a conscience when every ruble is listed. Every second ruble paid by Zaporozhye residents goes to his pocket. This is a very abnormal situation, and so I think I'm referring to the law enforcement agencies, to the leadership of the country to look at the actions of this person, the Shiska Igor, who is the chief physician of the Zaporez County Hospital. Recently, a month. It's not been a month yet, two weeks ago, the money that's been removed, marked "the bribe," but he's still heading the hospital. He frees people who give a witness. He organized such a criminal group. In turn, there were a lot of references to the direction of the area, but there is no response to today. I addressed the governor personally, who unfortunately became the lawyer of this chief physician and helped him to avoid responsibility. I think we should get this over with. And I ask your support in this, and I would like to draw the attention of the law enforcement agencies to this action. Because it can't go on like this. The mass of documents that indicate the relevance of this. And I'm going to the Zaporozhye District Council, guys, district council deputies have to decide on their release session, on the removal of this person from office. I'm done. Yes, given that the requests were signed by 50 national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u3	Please. Colleagues, I want to ask you, everyone's watching out for time. Everyone can see how limited the time is. I have a request to enter in three minutes, which is prescribed by the deadline, where there is a board, and this can be done without a hitch. Berezha Yuri Mikolaiovich, People's Front. He's giving the word "Andrey Teteruku." Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! From the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I would like first of all to thank all the law enforcement agencies that had provided quality and security for all the peaceful meetings of the Ukrainian people yesterday. Once again from this rostrum, I want to say that no one has the right to limit the Ukrainians to assemble peacefully and carry out their will. And again, thank you to those who have secured the security of the Ukrainians during the fighting. In particular, I would like to state how individual political leaders risk the safety of our citizens by calling on them to express disrespect for the Ukrainian authorities, which is doing everything possible to save the situation in the country. It's a very sad ending, such a career to pay people to take them away, forgetting that they don't take them to the madman. The devils follow the call of the soul. And it is a pleasure to see how the Ukrainian people make the right choice and set the right priorities. It's so good to see you. And I hope that we will continue to make progress not only in Parliament, making the right laws, but also in the Ukrainian population will draw conclusions as to who and in what way does its political future or ends it. Thank you all very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Klimov Leonid Mikhailovich gives the floor to Kulinic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u6	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Last week, while working in the district, he participated in the Polish City Association in a forum held in the city of Mirgorod, where very many issues related to decentralization, the unification of territorial communities were discussed. And a few theses I'd like to hear. First of all, the city heads do not fully understand the translation into local budgets and the salaries of technical and service staff in general educational and health institutions. For the city of Mirgorod, for example, this is an additional 16 million dollars a year, this is a huge cost. What is more, we also leave our tax return on local budgets. Some national MPs intend to withdraw 50 percent of the excise duty from the oil trade and transfer it to the district budgets. So it is these things that we need to work on so that we can engage in decentralization rather than centralization. The city heads do not fully realize that the subsidies for utilities will go not directly to the cities but through district councils. This should be settled before the second reading of the draft budget. Bill 3038, which we voted in the first reading, says that 5 percent of the wages from oil and gas production, 5 percent should remain in local budgets. Because the issue is very serious, roads are breaking down, ecology is deteriorating, infrastructure is deteriorating, and local communities are not getting any compensation. Therefore, the project should be voted on in a second reading in the near future. I've personally introduced the regulations that will allow these funds to be left, not in general, but in a special fund in the budget, because it's very important, it'll make it possible to use them better. Well, a few questions about decentralization, dear colleagues, we need to declare, not constantly, an increase in the number of united territorial communities, but an improvement in the quality of administrative services in these communities. We need to talk about what is really making life better, because if we are doing this reform for people, and I hope we are doing it for people, people need to feel that in these communities that are united, the quality of administrative services has improved, the quality of automobiles has improved, and the system is in general. The issue of the quality of health care is acute. We need an ambulance to get from a remote area to a district hospital, so we need to work in this direction. Personally, on the basis of the state subsidy, I found that two parts of my district -- Reschetilski and Dikańsk -- would soon receive ambulances, modern ambulances -- fast cars. I hope to do so for other parts of my 147 constituency. Well, one of the main questions that the city heads raised is that of the ground, we need it at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u7	Please, 10 seconds, because we have a very limited time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u8	Bill 4355 is the basis for decentralization, and we must finally transfer the authority to the local councils to manage the land outside the population. Hence, it must be voted on in the near future so that people will actually experience this decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Irina Heratchenko, deputy. First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Third Committee of the United Nations held an extremely important vote on the resolution on human rights violations in the occupied Crimea. The resolution was voted in favour of 73 countries, members of the United Nations, all those engaged in foreign policy, recognize what this figure means, since any decision concerning human rights is not easy to go to the UN. For example, when Georgia began working on a similar resolution, it was supported by only 15 countries. 76 UN countries have so far taken a neutral position, and it is clear that Ukrainian diplomats, but also the Ukrainian Parliament, need to start our work today in order to have more supporters, more votes in favour when voting on this resolution at the UN Security Council. And I want to inform you that on behalf of the two committees: foreign affairs and the Committee on European Integration, also on my signature -- we have sent letters to the countries concerned, embassies and parliaments asking to support the position of Ukraine here. But especially today, I want to focus on those countries that voted against it. And this is 23 countries that are members of the United Nations. Among them, and both those countries that tend to be in pain at all, are considering any human rights issue and the Kremlin's open satellites. But it was especially painful for Ukraine to see three votes: Armenia, Kazakhstan and Belarus. We respect the right of Armenia and Kazakhstan to their special relationship with the Russian Federation. We understand everything. But our friends in our friends Kazakhstan and Armenia need to understand that today Ukraine, the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian army are not only fighting for our independence – we are defending the right of all post-Radians countries to have an independent foreign policy. And we have to bring this to our partners. And as for the position of Belarus, we view it as a knife in the back. We thank the Belarusian side for the independent course in Minsk, and we appreciate it. But an independent course must be independent in all positions, not engaged and played on one side. And so we ask the Belarusians to similarly respect the right of Ukraine to defend our independence and sovereignty, and to understand that Minsk will be next if Kiev does not defend our independence today. And it's very important, your colleagues, that in matters of foreign policy, we today have a stronger stand on all international sites to defend the law of Crimea. It is important that all the international Ukrainian delegations in Parliament strengthen the Crimea. How important it was today that members of the BPT faction, a representative of the President of Crimean Tatars, took part in the honorable head of the Crimean Crimean people, Mustafa Djemilev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u11	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u12	Involved directly in these hearings to let our partners hear about human rights violations in Crimea, about the ban on Majlis. It is worth having representatives of Crimean Tatars in every delegation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u13	Thank you. And I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Gulyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u14	Good day to you all! Vassili Gulyaev, 140 constituency, Odessa District, Rebirth Party. Today, I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished deputies, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the problem at the seaports of Ukraine, and directly the city of Chernomorsk, the port of Chernomorsk. So far, I've been meeting with port trade unions, talking, and they're all worried about a collection that is now 75 percent of the revenue goes to the ports. Ports give away all the money, and no one helps them. Today, the docks are broken down and the money has to be wet. And if we don't wet the money in these docks, we won't be wetting the money in the fairway -- today, directly into the port of Blackmoresk, we can't get into large-scale ships because the fairways are shrinking everywhere. The money is all spent upstairs and the trade unions demand and ask that we, as deputies, address the Prime Minister of Ukraine and withdraw this shameful tax. Because. What happens next if the courts don't enter our port? And every port in almost every city and directly in the Black Sea is a city-based enterprise where people work. Today there are 4,000, 200 people, 4,200 families in our city. And if people lose their jobs, the city, of course, won't be able to provide all the jobs. Portovoki, freighters and dockers ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, to pay attention and accept and make sure that jobs do not fall but that jobs do increase and that people receive their decent wages. Finally, everyone asks for a face to be addressed to ordinary normal people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Guzai, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u16	Good afternoon. Igor Gus, 19th constituency. Thank you to colleague Andriy Amazanov, who gave the floor. I want to speak to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine and also to the head of the State Fiscal Service, Mr. Nasirov. Dear friends, here's the problem. I represent a border area that has two customs crossings of Strawberries, Stylish. I have been beating my head for several years, two years, so that the State Fiscal Service will pay attention to what is being done in our customs office. First, constant battles are created by artificial lines. Today, in order for a person to pass through the queue, you have to pay 500 to 700 and already a thousand dollars. Everyone knows about this: law enforcement, customs, foreign service. People, so-called "shipmen," who make this penny, go to Poland, carry something, bring something, and no one can order it. How long will this last? I'm asking the head of the DFS, Mr. Nasirov. Who is the source of this money? It's in bags or whatever, and so on. Set an order. That's the first one. The other one. We're waiting for the train wreck. I hope he does. But Ustilug is not ready for an increase in the number of passengers to travel to Europe and from Europe. Especially the customs crossing of Stylish, it needs to be repaired, it needs to be invested in resources, and Europe has given money that has been buried. What is the situation that, unfortunately, no one knows. And the last. No one in the state wants to solve the problem that is really being faced by deputies representing foreign districts, these are cars on foreign registration. You can chase these people today, but for what it's worth, people don't have money to buy good cars, buy in Polish, Hungarian, Romanian registration and drive. But they need legalization, they ask us, parliamentarians to adopt legislation that is appropriate, which unfortunately is not in the order of the day, and the DFS to legalize this problem. They are willing to legalize in some way in the country, and they do not want to go abroad every five days, to come, to make turns. Now especially in Zakartat, customs crossings are blocked and so on. I call on Groysman and Nasserov to create a working group, to include MPs, they're here, from the Carpathians, here from Lviv Region Oleg Musey, I see, from Volina, from Bukovina, from Frankish, and we're to be involved in resolving this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u17	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, when I listen carefully to the speeches of all the national MPs, carefully observing what is happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in general in the Ukrainian politics, I come to this disturbing conclusion: The dangers to Ukraine are those politicians who know very well how it was yesterday, but they are doing much worse today than they did yesterday. Sad to say, they start to ask themselves these things, and they set up such public truths as are clean, virgin, they think, people who think they're fresh people who hear the grass grow. Unfortunately, we don't have one thing that matters to the country -- we don't have a dialogue about solving those problems that are burning, complicated and painful for people. I have a feeling that we're here in the session room, ready to make a deal for just one -- a place where we have to put the hanger and the length of the rope that we're going to hang each other on. But that doesn't make the country any better. Tell me, dear fellows, what are we watering about the second day in a row when the Cabinet of Ministers gave us back the state budget project? Why don't we talk about how the minimum wage problem will be solved? Who will be involved? How much will it apply to the subsistence minimum, and so the minimum pension? That's what's bothering people. And to whom will the increased minimum wage be distributed? Another problem. We've talked to you all about health issues. I analyzed what the Cabinet of Ministers did. The Minister's office just threw us a bone. And the health problem is screaming. People just die! And I think those MPs who still have the courage to be in the district and communicate with people are talking about these gruesome problems. I call and ask you, and I beg you, honourable national deputies, if you hear me, I don't want to throw pearls in front of some. Let’s talk about the problems that people face! Let us mention the words of the Gospel: "If the kingdom is divided by itself, this kingdom shall not stand. If the house divides in itself, the house does not stand." Our home, Ukraine, does not stand, if we continue to do what we do. And we engage in fornication, at best by political fornication.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of the Danube.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u20	Dear people of Ukraine! Dearly-respected are those who are present. Ukraine is undergoing a dramatic renewal of all institutions of politics, rights and the economy. We pay a high price for the opportunity to go into a civilized free future. Moreover, there was a new danger in the country — the desire of politicians to establish a totalitarian state. It is now more important than ever to distinguish nationalism from national interests. Volunteer decisions in the economy and politics, electoral justice, the pursuit of freedom of speech, the repression of political opponents are increasingly taking place. Such actions undermine the confidence of the people, even more so against themselves. The economy was and remains at the heart of the country's life. The State must ensure its development, protect those who contribute to the well-being of the people. Instead, the authorities continue to tax people without allowing them to develop national businesses, thus undermining the economy of the State. While other countries are making their own production rates, our country is becoming a commodity and an open site for foreign products. The government has been ruled by political groups that are openly profited by war and destruction, accusing their opponents of all their sins, a rich and developed society that is not comfortable with them, because it is easier for the people to manage them. Poverty is the national tragedy of our State, which must be tackled through the development of its own industry. Lack of employment entails a lack of income to urban budgets and then to public budgets. The increase in crime, the impoverishment of the people, the almost complete lack of funding for science, sports, youth, the loss of scientific capacity, young professionals moving to other countries and working for a foreign economy. Full responsibility for destabilizing the economic situation in the country and on the ground rests directly with the supreme authority of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. They prove their non-professionalism and lack of understanding of the main directions of the State's development and its internal and foreign policies. This is particularly reflected in their agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank. Today, it is very important to see the reality of the situation and to address pressing issues such as peace, rather than diverting to secondary issues such as urban names. This distracting manoeuvre is followed by the Minsk Agreements, which are the only way to end an armed conflict. On Donbass, the failed policy of the President and the parliamentary coalition, which is a dead end to the settlement plan. The country is tired of military rhetoric, we want peace, economic development and prosperity, not war, chaos and destruction. As millions of our fellow countrymen, we firmly believe that only a peaceful settlement of the Donbas conflict will restore sovereignty and restore the economy of our State. As interested in developing the conditions of full economic development of the country, we believe that the political and legal rules and procedures consistent with values and norms are responsible for the future of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u21	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u22	The respectable people of Ukraine, the distinguished peoples of the country, have suffered from the collapse of the banking system over the past three years. And now it is necessary to put aside policies and adopt laws that are truly needed by people. In over 130 billion banks, only a fissionist lost more than 300 billion, legal entities lost more than 200 billion, and the refinancing that Nazbank provided to Ukraine was simply disrupted. We have joined a working group of professional lawyers, financiers, bank investors and have submitted a comprehensive package of laws on this topic. Yesterday, the President submitted a bill on Bank Mikhailovsky, which concerns part of the bank's investors, where Bank Mihajlovsky was an agent in the process of concluding a money deposit agreement. We also supported the bill yesterday, but it concerns 7,000 people at most. We need to consider a package of bills that we have developed that will enable the complex to address the issue of fraudulent investors for more than 80 armoured banks, as well as the question of borrowers. Just a year ago, these are our bills 2176 banning the use of the executive notary, which now, without a court decision, collects money, Bill 2323 to limit the liability of the borrower to the subject of bail, and the people have not been in the cabal for life, Bill 2275-1 on the prohibition of collective activity against physicists, that gangs of racketeers who are now known as collectors are terrorizing people. And, of course, the most important bill of 4004-2 on the restructuring and transfer of foreign exchange credits to the bracelet. We have submitted a comprehensive Bill on the Protection of the Rights of Investors 5391 of 14 November 2016, a new version of the Act on the Guarantee of the Contributions of Individuals. The bill proposes, firstly, to strengthen the responsibility of Nazbank Ukraine, which is the regulator, without Nazbank, there can be no money-breaking process. It's as good as any bankruptcy without having a relationship with Nazbank. The NBU is now the first to receive payments as the so-called secured creditor, and the first to go is the people and then the Fund and the Nutzbank. Second. To strengthen the responsibility of the owners of banks, they must meet all their assets upon return of the money from the banks in question. And third. The guaranteed amount of deposit returns should be raised from 200,000 minimum to a million bracelets. I will note that the work of the Fund is now simply a platform for corruption. More than 200 billion assets are at the fund's disposal, and now it's breaking up. I've only described part of the paragraphs in the 80-page bill, but we insist that these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u23	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u24	We insist on the adoption of a set of laws to protect fraudulent investors, which concerns four million people. And that can calm the situation in the country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is no discussion, there may still be two speeches and no more. Krulko now gives the word Sergey Soboljevo. And then Yuzkova, and then we're done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I think we need to draw clear conclusions from everything that's going on in the country. As long as neither the parliamentary majority nor the President nor the government will form a day-to-day order, and the order of the country will be shaped by the citizens of the country -- it seems to be very good at first. But why are they choosing the President? Why, then, do they choose a parliament that forms a government? So when the Fatherland faction insisted at almost every session of the Conciliation Council and every speech in Parliament at the beginning of each session week that we consider the key issues of the country's life, namely: we immediately considered issues that allow for an economically sound level, the level of payments, tariffs, municipal payments that we think are too high in the country. When we demand to bring into line immediately with the laws that we have passed and do everything we can to make sure that millions of investors who have lost their deposits in banks, 84 banks that have been bankrupted or owned by the National Bank, or their owners, are able to get their own funds so that millions of entrepreneurs have the same opportunity to get those funds, they tell us it's not in time. This is not a matter for the Supreme Council to consider. When we said here, from this rostrum, and from all the advisory councils, there is a key question: this is a question of the earth. The moratorium must be extended to a minimum of four years in order to develop the entire market base. And in this time of time, we were told not to allow dissipation because of the shadow schemes and the ransom of the earth and the transfer into private hands. It's all kind of populism out there. When we said, look immediately at the budget, the budget articles, where we can't find, we have hundreds of billions of dollars of real income that are being hidden, told us, it's not in time, we never have to look at it. And only when people go out on the streets in an organized manner: agriculture, teachers, doctors, investors, only then does Parliament start to adopt decisions. I think that this practice is the worst practice of what's happening in most people and in parliament. When we're actually back from the wheel again, we're going to consider the minimum wage, where there's not a penny in the budget under it, but there's a expectation that there's some kind of concession from the so-called childhood that never happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u27	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u28	That is why our faction insists that the key issues that are, indeed, the issues of the country's life be addressed immediately next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u29	Thank you. And the closing statement is the Suez Aunt Leonidivna, please. Passes the word to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to inform you that on November 18th, this Friday, there will be another sitting in the District Administrative Court of Kiev for the call of deputies from the Radical Party to cancel the decision of the Government and the National Commission on the regulation of the municipal services market for the promotion of housing and utilities tariffs. The payments received today by citizens have already been referred to as shock payments, because people who don't have any salary increases or pensions have twice as much to pay for utilities as they did last winter. All the promises of government and power, the President, the government and the parliamentary majority about it. That they compensate for the increase in the cost of tariffs to citizens, all of which turned out to be a lie and a bluff. The last money is drawn from the Ukrainians. So the Radical Party team requires the government, first, to return to the social standard of gas consumption -- 1200 cubes in the heating season to be at least 3,000 dollars for 1200 cubes, not seven dollars for today. We estimate that the price of 1,000 cubes of gas is 2,500-2700 dollars per thousand cubes. Ukrainians are being robbed today. We call on people to come to court on Friday, 18 to fight tariff cuts with us. Next, the government offered to raise the initiative to 3,200 minimum wage. This is only a partial fulfillment of our requirements. We think the minimum wage should be 5,000 dollars per month, and the minimum pension should be 4,000 dollars per month. The one who says that the minimum wage is 3200 is a lot, let him live on the salary of one and a half thousand if he has enough. In addition, we demand that Parliament review our bill without delay and overcome the President's veto and allow Ukrainian women 55 years of age to retire. A year ago we passed this law, President Prašenko vetoed it. How could he do that by depriving Ukrainian women of retirement? That is why we need to consider this law without delay. And finally, over 400,000 Ukrainians died of cardiovascular disease last year because they didn't get the cure in time, they didn't get the shot and the pill in time. To save the lives of Ukrainians, the Radical Party team has registered bills to ensure that our pensioners receive medical treatment free of charge every month. We will save their lives if Parliament votes in favour of this law and gives pensioners free medicine. Let's protect the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u31	The speaking time is over. Dear colleagues, I have received a statement from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front," who agree to replace the break from the rostrum. And I would like to give the floor to Mrs. Rick's two factions, please, three minutes. And then we're going to look at the order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, yesterday, I have a distinguished MP from the Fatherland faction, Nadia Savchenko, during her consideration of the bills that correct her lawfulness, demonstrated to all her level of education and parliamentary ability. On behalf of the BPP faction, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Parubia. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I believe that this behavior in the walls of the higher legislative body of Ukraine does more than just slander the Supreme Council. I am convinced that Mrs. Savchenko's representative of Fatherland is in this way knowingly or unconsciously helping the Kremlin in their information war against Ukraine. Because everyone knows that the thesis on the failure of Ukrainian power is being broadcast through all the Russian media. Means, sorry. I insist that similar actions and statements should be considered on the Parliament's regulatory committee. I am sure that such violations of parliamentary ethics should be punishable by fines, including a ban on the presence of an MP at several parliamentary meetings. The BPT faction requires a representative of the same faction of Fatherland, headed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, to include in the agenda of the committee's day meeting, and to consider a government bill of 5259, which prevents the release of criminals, murderers and rapists from places of disqualification, in order to include him in the agenda tomorrow, Thursday. The BPT faction will not allow further distribution of this cancer tumor in Ukraine, these people who are now being released and raped by children. And last but not least, I would like to remind the representative of the Fatherland Party, Mrs. Savchenko, that many of your colleagues have defended you and fought for you to be released from Russian prison. Therefore, please be kind to your colleagues and to yourself in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. We've got a day that's ratified today. It was called a deputy’s last name. And I ask you very much, if the MP is in the hall, if Nadia is in the hall, I will certainly give her the floor for a chat. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda. It's very saturated, very important. International questions stand today. And I very much ask everyone to do a very focused job, to invite MPs into the hall. The first question we have is a draft of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation, "The 75th anniversary of Baba Jar's tragedy: history lessons and modernity" (number 5349). Colleagues! I ask you to support the initiative to review the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal for a draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations 5349 -- consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:48:59]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this year Ukraine marked the tragic date of the 75th anniversary of the tragedy in Babin Yar. This was followed by parliamentary hearings in this Hall, where quite interesting, meaningful comments were made on how we can honor the memory of our fellow citizens who died during World War II. They would all, indeed, be our fellow citizens if they were wise in the 1820s and stood by the Ukrainian statehood, which should be a lesson now, regardless of the nationality of these people. The Jews died the most, killing many Ukrainians, Roma, and Soviet prisoners of war. Today, when we look at it. What is happening in the world, to the increase in xenophobia and intolerance even in many European countries, to defeat ultra-rights and ultra-universals, each of us should be proud of the Ukrainian society, which has really grown morally, spiritually after the war, and demonstrates such a level of tolerance, respect for our historical past, which is worth teaching to many European peoples. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on November 2, discussed a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. The proposed Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations take into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies and representatives of the public after the parliamentary hearings: "The 75th anniversary of the tragedy of Baba Jaru: lessons of history and modernity." The Committee on Culture and Spirituality recommends that the Supreme Council consider the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation: "The 75th anniversary of Baba Jar's tragedy: lessons of history and modernity" and adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, are there willing to discuss? Yes. Please insert two for, two for against, please. From the Radical Party, Linko Dmitry Volodymyrovich passes the word to Oleg Ljashko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ukraine recognized the Holocaust as genocide in 2008. We have heartfelt sympathy for the Jewish nation for its sacrifices and that no more such tragedies will occur. At the same time, we are counting on the support of the Knesset, the Israeli Parliament, which is scheduled to consider this week's resolution on the genocide of the Ukrainian people of Holodomor. We are convinced that the deputies of the Israeli Knesset will make the right historic decision and will be the 25th country in the world to pay tribute to the honour and memory of millions of Ukrainians, children, men, women innocently murdered by the Stalin criminal regime. So we will support the draft decision that is currently under consideration, we, our political power report, make every effort to have a friendly relationship with our international partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u37	Thank you. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" Toncharenko gives the word to Mr. Chubarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I, like all of you, have looked very carefully at the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings that took place on September 27th. I will say that I have personally taken note of such words as are recorded in the recommendations. The memory of Baba Jar’s tragedy as a Holocaust crime is now an integral part of the national memory of the Ukrainian people. This should be the case in normal societies, as well as the memory of the crime of Holodomor, of the crime of deportation. So the Holocaust, and Babin Jar, all of this is part of our common Ukrainian memory. This should be the case around the world, that we have not yet completely succeeded in the backdrop of our tragedy. So I want to go a little bit further on the subject here, about yesterday’s vote in the United Nations on Ukraine’s resolution on the human rights situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. I wanted to say that the results are very worthy of this resolution. What is more, we know what fierce opposition Russia has unleashed in order to bring this issue to a halt. I want to say that this resolution has every chance of becoming the basis for us, our state of defense, to return to the occupied lands. For the first time, Russia's world society is directly named in the context of the attack on Ukraine by the occupying country, and our land is illegally occupied. Thus, by protecting our respected colleagues today, we protect our historical memory by preserving our historical memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u39	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u40	In keeping with our historical memory, we have a future, our Ukrainian future. So I urge all of you to support the ruling on the approval of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rephat. And please, the People's Front, George Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u42	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, it's an uncomplicated document, a complicated decision for which we should vote. This decree honors the memory of the people who died in our territory, the memory of the Ukrainians of different nations. But they have always been, are, and remain Ukrainians. People who fought the aggressor. Just as our country today is fighting and our boys are giving up their lives, protecting our values, protecting our own people. It's a story that should never happen again. It'll be Hebrew."".. We must make a commitment that it will never again be in our nation’s territory. I would like to emphasize that, in fact, the public society of the world has been looking at what is happening in Ukraine. And the MPs of the Israeli Knesset who were present, namely, the Vice-Speaker of Israel's Nava Boker after honoring Baba Yar, returned and asked questions to the Duke of Israel about the recognition of the Holocaust by the genocide of the Ukrainian people. These are the consequences of our activity, a group of interparliamentary relations between Ukraine and Israel. This is the result of working together and finding common ground. I also wanted to thank you yesterday, regardless of how Israel's leadership says, that Russian missiles are actually 20 meters away from Israel's border, they voted yesterday that Crimea is Ukraine! It will continue to be so. That's why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u43	Please let me finish for one minute. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u44	Each of our activities, every step we take protects our citizens, protects our values, makes us friends, and has very clear borders: we must be together, we must protect our own state, our own citizens, and never let the Holocaust, the Holocaust, be repeated in our country. I would also like to honor the memory of those who died, in words, in the old language that no one actually uses in the world, is Aramaic, ancient Babylonian, which is read in the memory of those people who are now resting in Baba Jar: "."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u45	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the representative of the "Fatherland" faction, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u46	What a great, incomprehensible people of Ukraine. If you take it all of history: both Soviet times, and when you've been independent for years, how many of us have been asked to argue with any nation that lives and who thinks they're Ukrainians. When we mention any story, it doesn't mean that it's just a setup or a monument. It is the nail of all the authorities that it is impossible to repeat: there can be no dictatorship, there can be no responsibility for a war that does not carry such misery and death. And we should always remember that any dictator ends the bill of all nations and no one will ever argue with the Ukrainians that they wish for. But, Mr. Paris, dictatorship begins with a violation of the laws. When you now, at the beginning of Wednesday, started by violating the Rules, when you make a statement to whom you want or who serves, it is unacceptable. And so, in order not to repeat the dictatorship, that we all fight for war together, everyone should be an example of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is concluded. I ask everyone to come into the hall, take up jobs and prepare for the decision. Dear colleagues, can we move on to decision-making now, everyone in their seats? I would like to say that in the course of the discussion, there were technical remedies that are mostly technical and not meaningful. And that's why I'm going to put to the vote, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, with the technical legal regulations that you're going to introduce and take into account these amendments. So I'm putting to the vote a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearings Recommendation "The 75th anniversary of the tragedy of Baba Jar: lessons of history and modernity" (number 5349) on the basis and in general with technical and legal rights that the committee will make at the suggestion of the people's deputies. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:02:46]] For 252 Decision taken, decision taken, colleagues. Let's move on to the next draft of the Order. This is a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Governments of the Member States of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union on the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:03:30]] For 169 Decision taken. Let's move on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, if this draft decree is to be presented by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is one of the initiators and authors of this decision, which has been joined by almost all leaders of the parliamentary factions, we give the floor to our distinguished speaker, Andrey Parbia. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! In fact, all the heads of the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament were the initiators. And that's what this initiative came from. We all recall the day that demands were made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Ukraine for granting Ukraine a visa-free regime. 144 requirements, few of which countries had the same list of requirements that Ukraine had. And we remember how hard it was here in the Supreme Council, sometimes with big discussions, but step by step, we met those requirements. And the Ukrainian Parliament provided an example of how to be responsible for its international obligations. Colleagues, we've all set an example together of how we can be reliable partners, how we can work very responsibly. What's more, I'm going to remind you that in the coming days there's going to be an anniversary of the Dignity Revolution, and that's when the citizens went out to Midan because the previous regime stopped Euro integration. And we went out to Midan that night, on November 21st, holding together the blue-yellow flag and the flag of the European Union. "The Euromaidan" was the name of our Maidan. For these values, too, the Celestial 100 has died. In these three years, Ukraine has waged war against the Russian invader and the Russian aggressor, and thousands of our soldiers and Ukrainian citizens have died on the front, protecting not only Ukraine, protecting the European Union, protecting the entire free world from Russian aggression. What other state has paid such a high price for its European choice in the lives of our best sons and daughters? The next week will be a plenary week in the European Parliament. Next week we're going to celebrate the anniversary of the beginning of the Dignity Revolution. And it is vital that Ukraine, which has fulfilled all its obligations, reminds our European partners of their obligations. No one warned us that there would be any additional requirements after Ukraine fulfilled all its 144 points. As responsible partners, we should also remind our colleagues from the European Union that they must be responsible and reliable partners. Dear colleagues, this address is an appeal from the entire Ukrainian Parliament to the European Parliament, reminding us that next week will be the best chance and date for the European Parliament to be able to make decisions on granting citizens of Ukraine, Ukrainians of the visa-free regime. I am convinced that together we will achieve this, and these values with which we went out to Midan can be realized, and this will be felt by every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Andria and Mrs. Oksani Siroid as the initiator of this address. And the word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Euro-Integrating Mary Ionova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u51	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The need to adopt this regulation is due to the need to complete the implementation of an action plan for liberalisation by the European Union of visa regimes for Ukraine. On another occasion, we stress that Ukraine has fully fulfilled its commitments under the liberalisation plan. The completion of this process should take place by supporting the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to provide citizens with a visa-free regime. In particular, support the legislative proposals of the European Commission regarding the introduction of a visa-free regime for short-term travel for Ukrainian citizens to the States members of the European Union. In our address, we also call on the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to adopt without further delay the necessary decisions on the granting of a visa-free regime by the end of 2016. Therefore, at its meeting on 15 November 2016, the Committee on European Integration considered the above-mentioned references, and we recommend that it be accepted as a basis for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Is there a vote? No, they are willing to discuss. From Self-Help, Lavrick passes the word to Oleg Berezuku. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it is very important to look to our partners about how we want to coexist with them, how we want to communicate with them, what they want from us, what we want from them. But communication with words is good, and that's the original, because "first was the Word." But this should be followed by communication with works. If the Ukrainian State, which has risen in its new form after the second rebellion to this day as an institution, is unable to punish those who have shot and shot people in Maidan, is unable to lock up, lock up, or at least investigate those who have spent 20 years, and the last 15 are simply open to corruption schemes by Naftogazu, the National Bank, the NCREKP is robbing the Ukrainian budget. And today, in a cynical way, this pie that someone has lost, someone too little, someone doesn't have confidence. If the Ukrainian State cannot punish or investigate those in its electronic declarations, the future of life as a civil servant and official, it has hidden millions of dollars in its mattresses, then no statements will help us. When the Ukrainian State can't vote in and out of Parliament to defend the destruction of the Ukrainian State, which will be the guarantor of the temporary elections, the Act on a proportional system with open lists, if the Ukrainian State cannot declare war and declare occupied territories occupied, then our statements will only be part of our words. I'm here for you and me in our routine work to prove our work to the institutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u54	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u55	The institution and power of the Ukrainian State, which will be respected even for its sincere mistakes, but on the path of truth and success of the Ukrainian independent state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Mr. Arthur, Ukraine is waiting for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u57	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian state is worth respecting, and we have something to talk about today, something to imitate, including the European Union! Over the past few decades, no European has died for European values. Ukrainian boys die today, defending European values and proving that Ukraine is an important part of Europe. It is Ukraine that is needed by the European Union today. And we need to be very clear about this, not to put ashes on our heads. Excuse me, but when the Plan of Action for visa liberalisation was signed eight years ago, there was no word of suspension mechanism. We respect and understand the new challenges facing the European side. Indeed, there are serious migration crises that have not been created by Ukraine right now with its war that the Russian Federation has solved on our borders. But what arose during this time, and what challenges did Ukraine face? There was a war. And did we say that this is an additional challenge? No, we did 144 of these because we're doing them not for Mogherini, not for the European Union, but for Ukraine. We have not adopted the harshest anti-corruption legislation. There is no such e-declaration in any European country. And, you know, when we accept and receive Ukraine's visa-free regime, we will tell the Ukrainian society what some of this hall and some of the so-called public activists have done, as they've been on embassies, and they've asked us not to give Ukraine a visa-free regime, but what the authorities and parliament have done at this time, requiring the European Union to do the same thing today, because this is a matter of honour for the EU, which requires Ukraine to be absolutely just today, to be a responsible partner, also to be a loyal and responsible partner. And that's what we expect from the European Union today. You know, we have passports with you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u59	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u60	We have diplomatic passports that are visa-free. So these people who have these passports, diplomats without visas, they run through embassies and ask not to give Ukraine a visa-free regime. And now we have to unite around the Ukrainians simply, without these diplomatic passports, to be given visa-free treatment. And please, suspension mechanism is important, accept it, but there can be no double standards for Ukraine. They do not close the visa-free regime for other countries that use it. Let Ukraine have a visa-free regime, and the suspension mechanism is included for all countries together: for Georgia, for Ukraine and for other countries that are currently using it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u61	Thank you. The shurma conveys the word of Doubenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u62	Dear fellow citizens! Now we're looking at 5394, which is absolutely populist. This is a project called the Supreme Council address to member states for visa-free treatment. Is this document a Plan of Action for the Liberalisation of the EU’s visa-free regime? No, it's not. The Action Plan on the Liberalisation of the EU visa-free regime contains a list of the bills that the previous rapporteurs have now discussed that have been adopted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is this evidence of Europe’s attitude toward Ukraine? I guess so. Speaking of what we haven't done or what we can't do, we don't have to say that right now. Perhaps in the condition we are in right now -- in a state of lawlessness and chaos -- we are simply, perhaps, unwilling to see. But. So accepting this document will have any desired consequences? No, it's not. Because the bill has already been adopted. It's just a document-calling, you could say, with an extended arm of Ukraine a call for visa-free treatment. But even if we are given a visa-free regime, what are the consequences? Who can afford to go to Europe? Remember, 12 million pensioners, the average pension size is 1,600 dollars. They raised the minimum, but they didn't raise the pension. 1600 dollars is $50. Or it will. They have enough resources to visit these countries. No, that's not enough. It's an extra one. Two were requirements: this was a visa-free regime -- not received, and the Association Agreement with the EU -- was not received. Since the EU Agreement does not actually work, it is, from a legal point of view, a state of temporary operation of the Agreement. What are the consequences? And the consequences are that in the east, minus 20 billion, and in the west, plus 200 million, and for the economy, it's a disaster. Who's going to win? She won an orphan base. But machine building, metallurgy lost, aircraft building lost because there are no technical regulations. There you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u63	Thank you. From the People's Front, Jemetz Leonid Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u64	Thank you. The People's Front, Leonid Yemen, the city of Kiev. Well, first of all, a short trailer. The fact that the Opposition Block, as the successors of the Party of Regions, have consistently addressed and opposed Ukraine's integration into the European community, is not a secret. And now the essence of the determination that we are now considering. You know what that reminds me of? It reminds us of when we were invited to a large European building, they just say, "When you come in, please wipe your legs." Well, we've already wiped our legs out once, we've wiped out the second time, we've even moved on, we've changed our wallpapers, and we're standing right in front of the closed door, we're knocking and we're saying, "Well, open up, we've done everything you asked us to do." Yesterday Mr. Schultz, head of the European Parliament, informed us that they were waiting for us there. But you know what warned me? What was the connection to the Minsk Accords? I'm sorry, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the MEP, I can't understand how the Minsk Agreements can be part of our European integration, because this is not actually, nor is it legally, a document. So our demand today is absolutely clear. We, the Ukrainian Parliament, are the only legislative body of our country, which is the parliamentary-presidential republic, which we are now officially addressing to the European Union with a requirement, yes, with a requirement, because we are part of that bilateral agreement, on the one hand, Ukraine, on the other, the European Union. We have fulfilled our part of the requirements of this arrangement. Now it's up to you, distinguished workers and bureaucrats of the European Union. If you are unable to carry out the arrangements you have made, you do not need such a Europe. Not us, not you, not members and citizens of the European Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u65	"The will of the people" is given the word Volodymyr Litvina. I'll give you a line because it's called "The Opposition Block," and I'll give you a line, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u66	Dear Head, the honourable colleagues obviously have a decision to make and it is desirable for the entire Parliament to vote, because we remind those warlords who voted for victory before the beginning of the battle. And it would be very good if the Ukrainian Parliament spoke with one voice. Because as much as you can shake the air and tell how bad European officials are there, they can see that we have political turmoil here. They think that it is not the country, not the people of this country, that they should be afraid of the deputies who will come to the countries of the European Union. And one more moment. It would be good if we spoke with one voice, as would be the joint statement of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Finally. With all due respect to the honourable colleagues who signed this document, I don't think most of you have read it. You read it, look what you wrote. He needs to be seriously corrected, edited, so that this is the document we just talked about -- and there's heat and heat! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u67	Thank you. Replica, one minute, Opposition Block, Storm. Then from Fatherland, then from the Radical Party. Shurma, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u68	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm addressing all the deputies. And just to make it clear, if you're practicing European values, European values are respect for the view of any member of the Supreme Council. Our position is to be members of the European Union, but on equal terms. Excuse me, what kind of oath is this? 144 You have accepted their demands, and now you are asking us to receive us this day. So who will respect us if we ask for it? You say such officials are bad, so what are you going to do with them? We all realize that until peace comes, no one will accept us there. You'll be given a envelope: commission decisions, committees. We are not expected in Europe. If we are expected in Europe and we are told that we are a serious country, we must accept that we are fighting, that we are dying, and that we have fulfilled 144 requirements. So do not belittle yourself, have dignity!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u69	From "Fatherland" to the word "Murrage," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I think we have too much emotion. I think we need to operate on facts. I want to remind you that Parliament, the Supreme Council, did its work at the legislative level three years ago. The first phase of liberalisation. We have to ask why it took three years for the executive branch to meet these 144 requirements, not with emotion here. Why were they not implemented in 2014, in 2015, in the first half of 2016? And who should be responsible for the fact that these requirements have not been met? I don't think we should go to the European Parliament either. The European Parliament will support the granting of a visa-free regime. What needs to be said and spoken with countries that are skeptical. And they have reasons for that. So I want to say, not enough emotion. We need more responsibility. And in that sense, the "Paternity" party and the "Paternity" faction supports this appeal, which is proposed for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, here's my diplomatic passport. I want to pass this passport. And I address every national MP. While there is no visa-free regime for all Ukrainians, hand over your diplomatic passport! How do MPs do it from the Radical Party faction! There's nothing to go through the mud with lovers on the green ledger! Stand in line in diplomatic representations, experience the same tortures that Ukrainians experience, pay grandmas for visas and go abroad with visas! So please, I'm asking everyone to hand over my diplomatic passport! Thank you. As far as the European Union is concerned. We will support this appeal. But unfortunately, the European Union is giving us a pig instead of a cart. That is why we demand that Europe fulfill its obligations to the Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u73	Colleagues! Also, colleagues, a lot of hands up. We can go into discussion for too long. Colleagues, please, do you have another minute? Solovay, one minute? Colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's consult. Now there's seven raised hands, it's going to be about 10 to 15 minutes. How am I supposed to be in this situation? Let's vote, colleagues. Excuse me, my friends, we're just not going to be able to accept other ratifications then. If it were one or two performances, but when seven hands, that's too much, we can't, and I don't have the logic to explain. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please come into the hall. I am voting on the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Governments of the States members of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union on the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens (number 5394) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please vote, please support and this must be a unanimous decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please. [[11:26:31]] For 261 It's been decided. The law is passed. I welcome the Ukrainian Parliament for being united on this issue. Colleagues, I'll read it to you. Please, the factions are required. Show me the factions, please. Block of Petra Poshenko – 107, National Front – 60, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 20, Father's Day – 13, Radical Party Laska – 16, Rebirth Party – 4, Will of the People – 12. Colleagues, welcome to the decision-making process. And we're moving on to the next question, which is actually very short, but important, because we're losing the budget of the Supreme Council, this is a draft decision to get the Supreme Council of Ukraine out of the founder of the journal's editor. This is a question agreed upon by all parties, and without taking this decision, we're just losing our budget, and it's already under discussion. So, colleagues, first vote, I'm asking you to consider a reduced procedure, please. Colleagues, we've already discussed this. Let's support the simplified procedure. [[11:27:55]] For-191 My colleagues, I don't know what we've discussed, but I believe we've discussed it. Give us a minute to remind us of this bill. This is an agreed position. One minute just to remind you what the point is. Please, Sumar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u74	Colleagues, we've talked so much about the European Union right now, about the reforms we're doing for the visa-free regime. In this case, I think we should all remember what we are doing for Ukraine and for the Ukrainian people. And this decision is one of the reforms that is real for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, because it will just save the budget from the non-needed Supreme Council of Ukraine magazine that tells us there how the mushrooms are properly harvested and allows us to distribute them much more useful goals. A great request to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u75	Thank you. From the Regulatory Committee, Phinehas Pavlovicz, please, just as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I will take even less time than the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. The committee proposes to mention the following in the decree, too, the Supreme Council of Ukraine to step out of the founders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's "Vice" magazine with the conversion of members of its labour team into a management subject with the preservation of the name, purpose, language of publication and thematic orientation of the printed media. Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus to ensure implementation of measures to reform the journal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These clarifications are designed to meet the requirements of legislation regarding the order in which the edition is reorganized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u77	Thank you. And author Doubenko, one minute, has an offer until January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u78	Colleagues, there, in the draft decree, have noted that since the date of adoption, I don't think that's correct. Why? We have subscribers of the magazine, we cannot, as of today this decree has entered into force. I think we should write " January 1, 2017," then it's going to be true. That's the first one. And secondly, we had funding opened up for this magazine in the first quarter of this year. Since April 1, there is no financing, there is debt on utility bills, electricity, wages, and more. That's also incorrect if we don't count it. And I'm asking that there be a record of "close the debt to the labour force" among the measures, so that we don't get dragged into the courts, and we don't get tried. Close the debt on both the budget and on all other payments, and only then vote. I'm here to take this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u79	Thank you. Colleagues, let's open up a discussion, shall we? Colleagues, does everyone support the committee? Should we open the discussion? Colleagues, the question has already been discussed. And so I'm putting it to a vote, and we've been reminded what this is actually about, and the discussion has already taken place, and now it's only up to us to make decisions. So I'm betting on the vote. Please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. In the Committee's editorial opinion, I am voting on the draft Decree on the exit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the founders of the Vice magazine (number 4009), as drafted by the committee with this bill, which was issued by the chairman of the committee from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis and in general, by colleagues. Please support everyone, please vote, this is in line with everyone's position -- both the Evening Council and the Supreme Council, so that we don't lose our budget. Please vote. [[11:32:07]] For 236 Decision taken. The draft has been approved. With the motivation of Ivan Krulko, one minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u80	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would first like to point out that even short-term bills are to be discussed in the session room, which is the requirement of the Rules. That's the first one. Second, we've really just left the founders of Evening magazine. But I have one question, my dear colleagues, and when we finally get out of the founders and out of the SND at all. When will decree 1015 be passed, which two years in Parliament and does not vote? All the factions have already signed this decree. When will we stop participating in this unnecessary organization for Ukraine? That's where we're going! Here's what we need to do in this session room. And then we're really going to say that we're a state parliament. Please, 1015 let's take it into Parliament and get out of this unnecessary structure for Ukraine as the Commonwealth of Independent States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I recall, this decision was discussed. It has already been discussed. We were just making decisions, and the committee reminded us of what it was all about, what it was all about. Colleagues, let's move on to ratification issues. And I ask everyone to concentrate, these are important international ratifications. The first is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the temporary employment of Ukrainian workers in separate fields in the labour market of the State of Israel (number 0108). And my first suggestion is to vote in favour of a reduced procedure, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Short-term procedure, please. [[11:34:10]] For 186 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Social Policy Ustimenko Sergey Alexanderovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u82	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law provides for the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the temporary employment of Ukrainian workers in separate fields in the labour market of the State of Israel. The implementation of the law will ensure that the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the agreement are implemented. Its ratification will facilitate bilateral cooperation with the State of Israel in the field of labour migration of workers. The agreement is, in fact, a framework document that defines the general principles of employment of Ukrainian citizens in Israel. According to this agreement, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Government of the State of Israel, the Directorate of Population and Immigration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the State of Israel, will speak. These bodies carry out overall coordination on the implementation of the agreement, and the designated competent authority will carry out direct implementation. It must be a state institution without any mediators. Thus, it is now decided that the State Employment Service will do so. The detailed employment procedure will be laid down in separate implementation protocols for each particular area of this agreement. The first branch was proposed to select a building site, since the workers in this area use the greatest demand in Israel. An implementation protocol has been developed in this regard. "Building branch." During its consideration of the bill, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement Services proposed that a working group be set up to work on individual provisions of the implementing protocol, and the meeting of representatives of the working group with Israeli experts on 14 November this year agreed to further improve mechanisms to further protect the interests of Ukrainian workers. And in this context, I would like from the Ministry of Social Policy to express my gratitude and gratitude to Mrs. Ludmila Denisova's national deputies personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u83	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u84	For their personal contribution to the matter. I would like to point out that the ratification of this agreement will be a reliable tool in the fight against illegal migration, which has negative consequences for our workers. The project is agreed with all central authorities and social partners without notice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u85	Thank you. The co-reporter's committee is the head of the Hopeko Hanna Mikolayovna Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u86	Good afternoon, citizens of honor, presiding officer! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 6 September 2016, reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the temporary employment of Ukrainian workers in separate fields in the labour market of the State of Israel and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a whole and to ratify the agreement. So, colleagues, please vote to support this agreement. I would also like to inform you that next week, on November 23rd, with an official visit to Ukraine, the speaker of the Israeli Parliament, the Knesset, along with the delegation of parliamentarians, will arrive. That is why I would like to thank the representatives of the Ukrainian-Israel Friendship Group, particularly Mr. Logwinsky and many others for their great work in order to work together, to strengthen cooperation and, in particular, to promote our economic interests and especially to establish historical truth. I very much hope that during this visit, there will be a visit to the Holodomor Museum in Ukraine. And this is exactly the mark of honor for all the fallen victims of the Stalin regime during the Holocaust in the 1930s, when the Israeli side expresses its respect and respect for our history. So I would like to encourage you to continue working, to develop those important initiatives that relate to high technology, cooperation in IT, other areas, and to thank all parliamentarians for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u87	Colleagues — Can We Vote or Are They Desirable? There are those who want to discuss, no, there are those who want to discuss. Two for, two against, please turn it on. Lensky, Radical Party, please. Passes the word to Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u88	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, will certainly support the Radical Party faction. But what do we want to stress? Our main task is to get Ukrainians to have jobs in Ukraine. And to do that, we need to develop our own economy. Look, there's a budgetary process going on today. In the budget for 600 million dollars, the country’s science is underfunded. What does that mean? This means that we will produce again talented immigrants who will then go to other countries and build the economy of these countries. So today we need to increase funding by 600 million dollars of domestic science in order to build a solid foundation for our own economy and industry. Today, look at the scope of energy efficiency. Do you know how much there is left in the budget for energy-grade, for thermal loans? 400 million dollars. 400 million dollars against the backdrop of 50 billion subsidies that don't solve anything. Now, that's enough money for two months of "hot" loans. What does a pervasive majority thus try to do? To preserve Ukrainian energy dependence and poverty. This is totally unacceptable. They've transferred 400 million dollars to an energy efficiency fund that we don't know when it's going to be created. But today, we need to give money for warm loans so that Ukrainians can warm their houses so they can buy Ukrainian products. And the economy is going to work, and it's going to be energy independence. We offer these proposals to the Prime Minister. And finally, once again, Ukraine is required to abolish the moratorium on the export of roundwood. Well, it's a shame to ask a country that's under military aggression to further weaken the environment and the economy. It's unacceptable. Let us take care of Ukrainian interests and Ukrainian jobs in Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u89	"The People's Front," Gus Igor tells Dennis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Golovo, our Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement has considered the previous protocol implementing this agreement. And we've decided to create a working group that includes the distinguished national MPs who are also part of a group of Ukrainian-Israeli friendships; all the executives, that's both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And they offered to discuss it again. On November 14th, Knesset Vice-Speaker Nava Boker and representatives of the Israeli government came to us. For almost seven hours, we discussed the matter and agreed on the following. We had two questions that needed to be resolved. It's the employment of our workers under such conditions that, in fact, our employees, entrepreneurs, they could get on the terms that they would be offered, and they would work in Israel on almost the same terms as the Israelites themselves. That is, health insurance and accident insurance will be done in the same way as they do; the wages will be paid in such a way that they do. It'll include all the insurance. There will be a non-profit agency at the level of the State Employment Center, which will be working to help our employees so that they can, in fact, get into this service. I very much ask you to support my colleagues. This is both Georgia Logwinsky and Andrew Lozov, who were directly involved in these talks and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u91	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u92	To support the treaty and ratify it, adopt the law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u93	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Soloj Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u94	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I understand clearly the logic of this bill from the Israeli side. They are interested in better Ukrainian experts leaving Ukraine and working for the benefit of the land of Israel. But explain to me the Ukrainian national logic of the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament. Today, we want to encourage our best Ukrainian specialists to leave Ukraine. During this year, respected colleagues. The figures I'm going to call, they're going to be extremely impressive: 50,000 better Ukrainians have entered Polish units. You go to Western Ukraine, and they say that in the East and in the Centre, the same situation, and look at the consulates, kilometers of Ukrainians, to get visas and go abroad. We're losing one of the key economic battles today is the battle for intelligence. But our country will never be competitive if the better Ukrainians go abroad. Please tell me this is absurd: the best experts are leaving, and the government we're assigning are Poles, Georgians, Americans. This is because Ukrainians are leading the Forbes ratings of the world's best economists. I think we need to change our approach to this situation completely. We have to set an example and at least to appoint better Ukrainians from all over the world, return them to ministerial positions, return them to the leadership of state enterprises. And we must do everything we can to ensure that the Ukrainians do not leave, but that the better Ukrainians return to Ukraine, and we build it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from Fatherland Kugel, Yvchenko. Ivchenko of Fatherland, colleagues. And in a minute, let's move on to making a decision. Please, everyone, please come into the hall. Ever since the opposition block, okay. Please, Mr. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, we support this decision, but I would like to say the following. While you and I are sitting in a warm room, some people are defending our rights. I just got back from Bankow, where the farmers came out, more specifically, of the "anti-trader field" of the Ukrainian Farmers' Association. They've made their demands and I want to go officially on behalf of the farmers to the Attorney General, to the Head of the Police, so that they can verify every raiding fact, evaluate it and order the guilty. That's what people are asking for, that's what we've been talking about for a week. And next, colleagues. Yesterday, when farmers found out that they were going out today, and they were standing in the Bank, they came to the family of the head of the Association of Farmers, John Tomic, bandits. This is the village of the Ternopil Islands. And these thugs said physical destruction if they came out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u97	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u98	If they come out and speak against the authorities. Colleagues, it's bullying, it's bullying against those who today have to say that, who have problems today, who have the will to protect property and owners and their business, and it's human life. I'd like it to be formulated as a parliamentary request from us to be settled. And I went out on a special occasion and asked the manager to say it officially.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u99	Thank you. I added 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u100	If anything happens to these people and the family of the head of the Farmers' Association, we'll act differently. Protect! And I'm going to the law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u101	Thank you. Last performance from the Opposition Block is Dudenkov. And let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall. Turn on the microphone, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u102	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, are currently under consideration in Bill 0108 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Israel and Ukraine on the employment of Ukrainians in the territory of Israel. The coalition faction said what is Ukraine’s national position? Ukraine's state position is to create the right conditions, create new jobs, build an economy. And if you can't make an economy, if you've led the country to a state of poverty, because their income has dropped three times because of devaluation of the bracelet, if the industry has fallen, the economy is not working, at least don't create a barrier to the employment of these citizens abroad. We also have to say that these citizens, the outflow of citizens in any case, are being implemented, but this agreement provides certain legal mechanisms and guarantees for their being abroad, backed up by guarantees from Israel in particular. So please support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u103	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. Please come in. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on the temporary employment of Ukrainian workers in separate fields in the labour market of the State of Israel (number 0108), at the suggestion of a committee, as a whole. Colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:50:37]] For 242 Decision taken. And the project is in place. No, colleagues, we'll have another ratification, we still have time. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. Simple, common, unifying law on ratification (number 0112). I ask you to vote first for the reduced procedure. Please support me. Short-term procedure, please support. [[11:51:23]] For-174 Decision taken. I invite the head of the State Service to report on the extraordinary situation of Çechchotkin Mikol Aleksandrovitch. Guys, we've got ten minutes to break. I'm asking you to stay put. It's an important ratification. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u104	Good afternoon! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Cooperation in the Field of Protection against Natural and Other Disasters was developed on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on International Contracts of Ukraine. The purpose of the draft law is to complete the internal procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the agreement, which establishes the principles and framework of interaction, coordinate the assistance of the parties to the agreement in the event of disasters occurring in the territory of both States. In line with the agreement, information is to be exchanged with a view to preventing emergency situations, providing assistance in the event of natural or other disasters, eliminating their consequences, and cooperating in scientific research and training for personnel in the area of civil protection and rescue. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the state budget. In the event of a disaster to provide assistance to the Government of Montenegro, a state - budget reserve fund or other sources may be used. In this case, expenses are regulated by a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law has been reviewed and recommended by the Supreme Council Committee in foreign matters. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u105	Thank you. The report from the committee is Hopko Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear fellows! To save our time, because there are several other important ratifications, I want to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs advised the High Council on November 2nd to ratify the treaty, so I urge you to vote now without discussion, because this is one of the typical treaties to strengthen our cooperation with Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u107	Honorable Colleagues — Are They Desirable to Discuss? Is that right? Okay. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u108	Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Mr. Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u109	I'd like you to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u110	Please, Olga Belkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head called this ratification very simple. I would also add that it is also very important. The Peter Dustenk bloc will certainly support this ratification by voting. This is the best way to show European integration when countries work together in such important areas as the prevention of technological catastrophes. This ratification is about conducting joint studies, conducting joint methodological studies on how to prevent major disasters. So I urge all my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. The Radical Party supports this ratification, honourable colleagues, and proposes to save time in the debate now, and move on to the vote. But the word "will of the people" is required, Mr. Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u113	Sergey Melniczuk, People's Will Group. Of course, the Radical Party will support Chechtchin and what they do together in a bunch. I want to remind you that those fire trucks that you're stealing millions of dollars from, like you're going back into the reserve fund when you can't give guys money for prosthetics, because the deficit of the reserve fund, you're adding 50 million dollars to the car fire. Aren't you ashamed? I'm not talking anymore. I'm not rapping. Not only do we have to hand over passports, we have to get all the passports so that no Chechtkin and some green passports go abroad at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Colleagues, please, Your Honor, I ask the national deputies who are in the hall to return to their jobs. There's a card, right? Tell Dennis one more time. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on cooperation in the field of protection against natural and other disasters (number 0112) proposed by the Committee as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:57:19]] For 251 The draft law was adopted. Dear colleagues, we now have three ratifications with Sri Lanka, they are simple. Colleagues, let's consult, I can go on for 15 minutes so we can go through them. Three ratifications, simple, friends. For 15 minutes, I'm continuing the meeting, colleagues. Can we discuss all three ratifications together and vote separately? Colleagues, I propose that we look at a simplified procedure of three draft laws: 0113, 0114 and 0115 -- which are actually adjacent to the simplified procedure, colleagues. I'd like to support you. I'd like to vote, short-circuited procedure. Let's focus, colleagues, and work for 15 minutes. These are international agreements, these are important things. [[11:58:26]] For 178. Decision taken. I invite you to take the floor of 0113 Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergio Igorovich. Please go to the rostrum. Very thin, Mr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u115	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, your opinion is proposed for ratification of three agreements with Sri Lanka: extradition of offenders, legal aid in criminal matters and transfer of convicted persons. These contracts were initialled during negotiations in Kiev with the Sri Lankan delegation and signed during a visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sri Lanka. They're completely shutting down co-operation with Sri Lanka in criminal matters, when a person is being held for extradition, co-operation in criminal matters to obtain evidence, to listen to witnesses, or to get information from either side. And the transfer of convicted persons who are condemned in another State. Especially the third agreement is important to us because, at present, two of our citizens are sentenced to death in Sri Lanka. There is also criminal persecution against two more citizens. Please support these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u116	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting yesterday, 15 November, reviewed the bill and decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this law as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose 0113 to proceed to the vote, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, good fellows. And you tell me, come on, colleagues, can we discuss three bills with one discussion? We can. Then let's give all the reports first, and then let's talk. Okay? Then there will be a discussion. Then it's 0114. Sergey Igorovich, is there a need to report on 0114? He reported it. Now from the Committee on Foreign Affairs Wolf Victor Ivanovich at 0114.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 15 November 2016, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and approved unanimously the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed draft law on the basis and in general, and the ratification of the treaty. Please support the Committee’s decision on foreign matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u120	Thank you. And from. at 0115 the head of the committee's subcommittee on foreign affairs of Svetlana Petrovna. Please, please, too, please, Mrs. Svetlano.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u121	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 15 November 2016, reviewed the draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the transfer of sentenced persons and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill on the basis and, in general, the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the transfer of sentenced persons. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u122	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two for, two against. And I have a huge request, colleagues, that's going to take eight to ten minutes. Stay where you are. There are three important international ratifications and it is important that we exercise both responsibility and discipline. From the Radical Party of Chizmar Yuri Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Yuri, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u123	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, clearly, the Radical Party supports and the faction supports these three laws, clearly, we must bring the offenders back to the country. But in order for them not to flee the country, we must also adopt laws that prejudice the outflow of criminals abroad. There's a bill that I've registered to prohibit people's deputies from leaving for the period of the Supreme Council's consideration of bringing the Attorney-General's Office to justice -- we're not looking at it. And I want to say that this bill has been registered for four months. The profile committee hasn't considered it. And so we can, in accordance with our Supreme Council Rules, consider without a decision by a committee of profile. That's why I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Andria Paris: I ask you to bring this bill to a close meeting, the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, to consider, therefore, we know that we have a proposal on the Regulatory Committee to bring the people's deputies to a position of responsibility and to pre-empt their outflow abroad so that we can deal with them with Sri Lanka, Dubai, there, with other countries, not to seek them abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u124	Thank you. From the Chubarov Dust Block. The word is for Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u125	Dear Head, dear colleagues! With all due respect for the relationship between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in the area of the extradition of offenders, I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues to the violent situation in our relationship with Russia in this area. Russia has been asking us questions about the extradition of its citizens who are trying to seek refuge here in Ukraine, in our country. Russia blames its citizens for crimes they have never committed. To us, the people's deputies are approached by these citizens. I'm personally dealing with the situation, and we're with two citizens of Russia, who here, in Ukraine, is Maryev Ruslan, who, by the way, lived in Crimea, in occupied Crimea, and after the occupation he went with his family to mainland Ukraine. And now he's found, deprived of his will, waiting for extradition. As well as Isaac Shahban, who has seven children, he is also in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that the situation is really, really loud. I see in this some, you know, a conspiracy between Ukrainian security officers. with prosecutors. I'm not talking about judges who are in the southern areas of Ukraine, particularly Zaporzik. It seems as if we are rushing people to betray Russia so that it can punish them innocently. By the way, all of these people follow articles like me, Ukrainian citizen of Chubarov, such as Mr. Mustafa Jemiliev and our fellow citizens. You can't publish with a war country, an aggressor country, those people who are looking for shelter. And that's why I think I support what they're offering us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u126	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u127	What we're offered for ratification. But I think the Ministry of Justice should think about what kind of public control we might have over the execution of such agreements so that we don't turn people to death. And I think it's very bad that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the form of profile committees, avoids considering this subject, because the lives of every person seeking refuge in our country are priceless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u128	Thank you. From Self-Help, Yegor Sobolev. Last, final speech, colleagues. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall, prepare for the decision. And please turn on Jehora's microphone. Semenesi renders the word Yegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Semenha Roman, self-help faction. We will certainly support these legislative initiatives, but at the same time, with all due respect for the Republic of Sri Lanka and our trade relations -- because I think that the wealth of individual national deputies is greater than our trade relations in a year -- I want to remind you that we have to consider with you the economic laws that develop our economy, create jobs, protect medium and small businesses. I want to point out that yesterday, during the law-enforcement block of drafts, we for the fourth week, the plenary week together with you did not come to Bill 3719, which amends the Criminal Procedure Code, which actually prohibits, apart from individual exceptions, the removal of servers, techniques, other devices that actually protect small and medium-sized businesses. Let me remind you that it also facilitates the access of defenders, lawyers during searches, and also regulates the procedure for the involvement of special departments. That's why I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. The Self-Help faction requires the bill to be considered first tomorrow. And this is actually going to be our call for business, support for medium and small -- these are the people that today, in fact, are being held by the country that is creating jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up jobs, prepare for decision-making, colleagues. I think these are the agreements that unite the entire hall. And I'm going to be one by one the bills discussed on ratifications put to the vote. Please don't come out of the hall, but please come into the hall. And I put it first: the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters (0114) on the recommendation of the Committee as a whole. Colleagues, please support. Please vote. 0114 as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades, wait. The first is 0113, yes. Excuse me, it's 0113 first. I'm sorry. I've got papers right here. So first, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the Extradition of Offenders (0113) as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please. [[12:10:41]] For 261 Decision taken. The second is 0114. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (0114) as a whole, proposed by the Committee. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:11:13]] For 259. Decision taken. And the law is passed in general. And last of all, this is the draft Law on Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. At the suggestion of the committee as a whole. 0115 as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[12:11:48]] For 263 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, thank you for your active work, and I remind you, we have a half hour break. At 12:45 we continue to work, I ask everyone to be in the hall. We still have very important questions, and I very much ask, at 12:45 all to be in the hall to continue our work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking my fellow members to come into the hall to continue our work. Please, colleagues, please inform the faction secretariat of the beginning of our work and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report on the beginning of our work, please. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. I want to inform you that there have been further consultations during the break, and in those consultations, I have been asked by Irina Lucenko that the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the Fight against Those Emergencies (0119) will be postponed until tomorrow, because a cluster of issues will be considered tomorrow, and it needs some reconciliation between the political factions. As well as the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on taxes and income, I was asked by the Committee to move it too, as the positions in it are not harmonized, and a number of political factions are opposed to the adoption of the draft law. And for further consultations, I was asked to transpose the draft law. And so we move on to the regulations that are next in order of the day. These are regulations that apply both to young people and to sports, but the first is a draft decree amending Chapter 1 of the Ukraine Supreme Council Order on Commemoration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and get ready for work. Thank you, Your Honor. Colleagues, these decisions are not complicated. I'm also going to ask the author, from Igor Vasyunik, to look at the reduced procedure. And I have a big request that this proposal from the authors was supported by the hall. Once again, I ask all the national deputies who have not yet entered the hall to enter the hall and take up jobs. Please, colleagues, come into the hall, get ready for work. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm going to make the first proposal to review the bill in the next day's agenda under a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support this proposal for a reduced procedure. Colleagues Ready to Vote? So I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Ordinance amending Chapter 1 of the Appendix to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Celebration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2016 (number 4662) by a reduced procedure, colleagues. I'd like your support, colleagues. It's a very simple, simple correction. And she won't need a full-time discussion. So I'm asking all the deputies from all the factions to support this proposal. Please vote in favour of the shorter procedure 4662. Please, colleagues, please vote. Vote. [[12:57:56]] For-137 Colleagues, we can follow full procedure, and there will be no problems. But does that make sense, does it need to be? That's where it's added. Colleagues, we vote. Invite the deputies into the hall, I'll put them up again, colleagues. It's just about adding "70s since the founding of the Lviv National Academy of Art." And I'm sure Self-Help will support this idea. Colleagues, yes, once again, I'm putting the proposal for a simplified procedure for the 4662 Project, my colleague. And I'm really asking everyone to support this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, 4662, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote, colleagues, please. [[12:59:26]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasilovich Igor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u132	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by Decree 4662 on the marking of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the Lviv National Academy of Arts. The Academy of Arts represents one of the most important areas of higher education in Ukraine, namely, vocational training and training of creative personalities in the fields of art and decorative and applied art, design, restoration, culture, art and art management. Modern education is a legacy of better traditions and the acquisition of artistic education. The Academy of Lviv is a higher education institution at the IV level of accreditation, officially established in 1946. In 2004, the President's decree granted her the status of a national educational institution. The Lviv National Academy of Arts actively cooperates with national and foreign educational institutions. First of all, it's a long and fruitful collaboration with the Kyiv National Academy of Art and Architecture and the Kharkiv National Academy of Design and Art. Among foreign partners, many well - known European art institutes and institutions in Poland, France, Hungary, Austria, Bulgaria, and the Baltic countries are particularly relevant in the European educational integration plan. An effective means of implementing state programmes was the creation in 1993 of the National Academy of Scientific and Scientific Sciences, which includes 22 educational institutions in Ukraine with I-IV levels of accreditation, which actively train in the field of art. 21 graduates of the National Academy became the winner of the National State Award for Taras Shevchenk. In view of the above, given the importance and recognition of the activities of the Lviv National Academy of Arts, which has made a significant contribution to the development of culture, art, artistic education and the preservation of Ukraine's artistic heritage, I ask that you support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u133	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Nikola Leonidovich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u134	Thank you. Obviously, our committee recommends that we take this decision as a basis and as a whole. When we vote in favour of commemorative dates, we may sometimes be skeptical of these dates, such proposals being one exception when it comes to higher education institutions. And what's more, when it comes to higher education institutions with a great history, respected graduates, about such educational institutions that have really become part of our country's history, the Lviv Academy of Arts is just such a teaching facility. It's a shame that not many people are in the room, but I would ask everyone, regardless of political views and factions, to support this bill on the basis and generally as recommended by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u135	Thank you. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two for against, please. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u136	Please give me the word of Grandichovich Mikolli.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u137	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I would like to ask you to support this determination, because this is really the Lviv Academy of Arts, which is the art college that is one of the leading countries in art circles. I appeal to everyone to vote and support the Lviv Academy of Arts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u139	Thank you. Lopushanski Andri Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u140	I'd like to give Dovbenko Mikhail Volodymirovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we know how difficult it is in the humanitarian field today, we have to spend a lot of money on security, a military-industrial complex and so on. And it is very important to have a good word of support from colleagues who are doing so much good for our country today. So I ask everyone to support this determination and allow the Lviv National Academy of Arts to celebrate at the right level. Thank you, everybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, Krivenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u143	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. By fully supporting this decision, we would also like to point out that we have registered decree 5347 on the observance of the 25th anniversary of the referendum, which took place on December 1, 1991, and which has actually strengthened our independence. And without this referendum, which I will remind you of, more than 80 percent of people in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions are determined that they want to be part of the only Ukraine, in Crimea, most are determined that it will be part of the only Ukraine, our sovereignty would not be established. So I am very grateful to the profiling committee, Mr. Knieżicki, that today they will consider this determination, and tomorrow, I hope it will be in order of the day, and we will also vote on this very important date. It's a holiday day, not a weekend, because the weekends don't have to be cut short, Ukraine has to work. And to celebrate this date, we are obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u144	Thank you. Kishkar. Oh, that's Kishkar's speech. Dear colleagues, in fact, the discussion was concluded under the bill. Are there any other factions that want to speak? Colleagues, please, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall. My colleagues, I know that there have been some discussions about this bill, but I would very much like to ask all the national MPs to support this initiative. The initiative of Vasili Igor Vasilovich, supported by the committee. We celebrated at the same time as Kharkiv and the universities of Western Ukraine quite recently. And it was the right move when we demonstrated and supported our institutions in Kharkiv, and the support of the institutions that are in Western Ukraine. There is now support for the Academy of Arts, where generations have been raised. An entire generation of Ukrainian artists who actually kept the tradition of Ukrainian. I'm waiting for more colleagues to come into the hall. And I very much ask that political debates and aspects do not interfere with the decision-making of this bill. And so I'm very much asking all the national MPs to come into the hall and support it. And I look forward to supporting the entire hall, and I hope that all the factions, all of them, have the Levians to support the bill. From the Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, one minute, and we move on to making a decision. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u145	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The presiding officer, so you don't worry that there's a political element here, everyone present from the Opposition Block is backing this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u146	Colleagues, so I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Please come in. We're moving on to making a decision. The discussion is over. And I'm betting on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see I'm waiting. Well, we'll wait 30 seconds. The faction has now concluded its meeting and is now in session. We'll wait a few more seconds so we can be the only ones. We're waiting for the entire faction to enter the hall. One more minute, Igor Vasjunik, while they enter the hall. We're voting in one minute. How can we go when we work in Parliament? It's working time now, and we're all at work. Please, 30 seconds, Igor Vasjunik, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u147	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I thank you for us. We'll wait until the deputies come into the hall. But I'm asking you very much not to take this decision down, because today is going to be the 70th anniversary of the National Academy. Lviv National Academy of Arts. Let's make a nice gift from the Supreme Council to the entire community, which is really doing a lot in the area of education in its direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u148	Thank you, colleagues. So we vote. I thank everyone for understanding. Everyone in the discussion expressed support. And I'm voting on the draft Amendments to Chapter I of the Ukraine Supreme Council Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2016, as proposed by the committee on the basis and as a whole, by the colleague. Please vote, colleagues, and please support everyone. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:10:24]] For 239. Decision taken. It's been decided. Thank you very much, colleagues. The next question we have here is, I actually got the attention of Minister Zhdanov, who joined our work, we have a draft law on the ratification of the European Council Convention against the manipulation of sports competitions (0117). This is a draft law that was introduced by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this is actually the last issue from the ratification bloc. I ask you to vote in favour of his brief procedure, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote 0117. [[13:11:18]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Youth and Sports Zhdanov Igor Aleksandrovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u149	Dear friends, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Golovo, the draft law introduced to the Supreme Council by the President with the aim of granting the Supreme Council a commitment to Ukraine to the Council of Europe Convention against the manipulation of sports competitions, which was held on 18 September 2014, is in the city of Maglingen, at the 13th Conference of Ministers of the Council of Europe responsible for sport. It was signed on behalf of Ukraine on December 21, 2015, in Strasbourg. The convention proposed for ratification is aimed at warning, detecting and applying sanctions against national or transnational manipulation by national and international sports competitions, as well as promoting national and international cooperation in this area. The Convention envisages the commitment of States to take steps to establish an internal and international interaction with prevention and control of sport competitions. In particular, in connection with sports betting, crime detection during their organization, and sports competitions that resulted from the manipulation of sports competitions, the involvement of those responsible for such violations by natural and legal persons. For monitoring the implementation of the convention, mandatory information is provided by the States of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe on legislative and other measures. The convention is aimed at combating corruption in sports. She's for the fair play. It has no political aspects. So I ask all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u150	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Gus Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u151	Dear friends, this is not a political decision. Minister Zhdanov explained everything. I ask you to support this important decision for our sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u152	Thank you, colleagues. Two for, two for against, please. Self-help, Roman's Anna Anatolyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u153	The questions of sports support have always brought this hall together. And I want this not to be an exception, because we've already adopted a bill very important to our country to prevent the manipulation of results in sport. And now we're taking the decision that should have been taken before that, but we know that we're always asking about physics and sports either on Wednesday or there on some day. So please call on everyone to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u154	Thank you. I just want to make a note: Wednesday is a regular day's work. You have to be in the workplace, and you have to get used to it being a business day where we make decisions and work as we do today. Onufrik Bogdan Semenovich gives the word to Barney for the performance. It doesn't, does it?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u155	Praise Jesus Christ! One representative from Fatherland mentioned my one native, the head of the Ukrainian farmers Tomic Ivanovich. I just got off the phone with him. The audio hasn't been played yet. They're supposed to give it here now. But Ivan Ivanovich clearly told me, "There was an accident." No one came to his house, no weapons, no weapons. So, our serious MPs of the Fatherland faction, I want to tell you that you're cynically lying, misleading people and manipulating people. That you are the evil of Ukraine is deceitful, vile, cynical and lying. That you're even worse, frankly, than Ooblak and Yanukovic. Because even though they were open, they were roadside supporters, and you were sneaky. So don't talk any more about Midan, because Midan, starting with the first student in which he participated, and the orange one in Kharkiv, and this Mayan of Divinity, was the Maidan, who was called upon to feel national dignity and pride. You're buying people! You're telling people! And when you talk about your affection for the people right now, especially for those who travel to the Supreme Council, they dress up in Louis Whitton, when they wear thousands of dollars' worth of clothing or in a cruiser with guards. So shut up and stop talking about the people! I address all the Ukrainian people. Throw away this cynical lying codex called "The Fatherland." Where a beggar follows a declaration, he rides with guards, dresses from Louis Whitton, or rests annually and even monthly in the Canaries. There can be no such cynical lies! Do Not Destabilize! I don't like the work of the Supreme Council. Go throw away the snow! Whatever you can do to help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I'll give you a line. It's 10 seconds, finish. I'll give you a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u157	Go to the people and apologize, and restore trust. Do you want to be president? Your district – Magadan! That's where you'll be president. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u158	I am. I already gave it to you, my friend Oleg. I'm sorry. I've given you 10 seconds. Ivchenk's replica, a replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u159	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, people who drink or lie are hard to communicate with. There's a formal appeal they're about to bring. It was written yesterday on the Committee of Law Enforcement. This address is written by Tomich John Fedorovich, who described what he would do with his child’s authority that you represent today. He turned today, and you'd go out and talk to real people, not stand here and lie to the whole country, that's the first. Secondly, I don't want to answer your lies, because this is a complete fight against a party that protects real people today. And if we hadn't raised a moment today, you wouldn't have passed laws today about investors or others or about the moratorium. That's what we do. That's why we help people, and you're lying and lying. And if you don't show me your son's address, I'll show you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone in the hall that we are considering the Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against the manipulation of sports competitions, colleagues. I am trying not to interrupt, but please, during the discussion of the law, as provided for in the Rules, talk about the law. Now from the Opposition Block, Gusak Vladimir Georgievovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, dear Head! I would like to draw attention to the previous discussion, the Opposition Block does not, in principle, take part in such disputes and in such discussions, which unfortunately, very, very much in the Ukrainian Parliament, the Opposition Block is a responsible faction, we are in favour of a truly peaceful Ukraine in which all regions should be able to develop. I would like to point out that the previous decree on the celebration of the 70-year anniversary of the establishment of the Lviv Academy of Arts was adopted only because of the votes of our faction on Wednesday, when the traditional deputies from the so-called ruling coalition of the Hall hardly attend. As far as this convention is concerned. Regrettably, the issue of manipulating and resisting sports competitions is very relevant to Ukraine. It may be noted that almost every month there are reports that a certain federation has declared certain matches in the Ukrainian championships to be contractual. In particular, unfortunately, many of these messages come from the Ukrainian Football Federation. That's why the Opposition Block will support the ratification of this convention. And I would like to point out to everyone and the Ministry of Sport that this convention includes the creation of a national platform to solve problems of sport manipulation. We ratify and wait for this platform and solve the problem so that we don't have any contractual matches.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u162	Thank you. We haven't had the words of the Radical Party, the People's Front, the Peter Prashenko Block. Colleagues, I'll give you my word. Wait, let's define the sequence. "The People's Front," Maxim Burbak, then Oleg Lazko, then Jurinac, then Kishkar, okay? This sequence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this ratification. And I would like to remind the previous speaker: If he calls the faction of the former regionals a responsible political force, go to trial and be responsible for all the crimes committed by your leader Janukovic! And don't tell the fairy tales here that you're a responsible political force. Everything that is being done now is being done to you according to the direction of the Kremlin, in the dungeons written by Ljowtchen and distributed by Medvedchuk in Ukraine. So if you are responsible, answer! And I'm sure you'll be responsible for all the crimes you've committed in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u164	From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u165	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, do you hear the writings breaking? He cries out, "You are liars." He cries out, "You are liars." All of you, parasites, are lying, except for us! One Radical Party is telling the truth! We have to fight for the people. People don't need you breaking spears. But lie to all of you like dogs in the country! Give people a job, a salary, a cheap medicine, 5 bucks a liter of milk, a cow in every rural family, the social sphere, and people a normal fare on a utility station. And lie, even if you do!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, before I give my word to the next speaker, I'd like to make a message. We have a special time for statements from political factions and groups. We have a special time for statements from national deputies. We have an agenda where there are bills that have a lot of weight. Maybe they're not public policy, maybe they're narrow-minded. But they are equally important. I ask very much for political discussions to be made at the time provided by the deadline, or for briefings outside our sessional work! I am very much asking, as prescribed by the regulations, when discussing bills to discuss bills, to make proposals, to give warnings to them, and to make decisions, colleagues. And I hope that the next speakers will do just that. It's Juryntz's show, one minute. Then Kishkar. And let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Please, Jurinec, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u167	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Peter Dustenk bloc will support the adoption, support the adoption of this law. By ratifying the Council of Europe convention, we are taking another step in European integration. In addition, ratification will seriously contribute to the implementation of international Fair Play standards into the system of national sports competitions. The implementation of the convention also systematizes and brings the work of Ukrainian bookmakers’ offices closer to international standards. Another important moment. Ratification of the agreement will contribute to a significant reduction of the corruption component in the domestic sports competition system. That's why the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block" calls on all colleagues in parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u168	Thank you. The closing address is Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. And if you'll all come into the hall, we'll move on to the decision-making process in a minute. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u169	Thank you. Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine In today's sport, only three global problems are the manipulation of sports, doping and corruption. It seems fantastic and half so dreamy that the President is interested and has the responsibility to bring this law into the session room, for which we sincerely thank him. This is indeed a step toward addressing these issues. Fair Play is actually signed by all our sports federations, and I think it's now a question of implementation of the principles that are both enshrined in this convention, and actually in those documents that are signed by our federations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u170	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to take your seats, please invite the deputies to the voting room. Please, Your Honor, please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against the manipulation of sports competitions (number 0117) as proposed by the committee on the basis and as a whole. All the factions that have spoken have supported this bill and I ask you to vote, and I ask you to support 0117 as a basis and as a whole, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:27:46]] For 227 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors of the law. And, dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next agenda, this is the draft of the Judgment Order 2016 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. This is a proposal from the Family and Youth Policy Committee 5237. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:28:38]] For-164 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports of Palatno Arthur Leonidovich to report. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u171	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism received 22 proposals from district councils and all - Ukrainian youth social organizations for the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self - government in 2016. The award was established in 2003 and is awarded annually in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government for Ukrainian citizens under 35 years of age, to youth and children's social organizations. The money part of the prize is 500 untaxed minimums, an income of 8,000,500 dollars. At its meeting on October 4, this year, the committee selected ten candidates for the award, including a City Council MP, executives, and members of youth organizations, a children’s social organization. All candidates achieved significant results in the establishment and development of the youth movement in Ukraine, made significant contributions to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government in the respective regions of Ukraine, and participated in the drafting of the bill. A true patriot and a supporter of our state, a member of the fighting force, and the head of the ATO Support Department of Social and Youth Policy of the Winnické ODA, deserve special attention and a prize. On account of this young boy’s hundreds of lives saved, Andrew fought for a baby airport. Dear colleagues, we are obliged to support the participants as much as possible, especially those who have been injured, disabled, risking their lives for our freedom, for the sake of our nation. We need to create conditions for our defenders so that every fighter on the front knows that he has reliable support from the state. I believe that the adoption of the draft decision will be a fine incentive factor, both morally and materially.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u172	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u173	Thank you. All young professionals who want to work in the field of law enforcement and actively promote state-building processes. Dear colleagues, the committee is represented by national deputies of almost all factions. So I recommend that you trust your colleagues' decisions, who have carried out a very thorough analysis of each of the candidates for the award, and support the draft decision, support our young people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u174	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Please, let's write two in favour, two in the opposite. There is a proposal to vote. Is there no desire to discuss this decision? Yes, there is a desire. Please, from the People's Front, National MP Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Mikola Veliczovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u176	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the committee has been very scrupulous in studying all the candidates that are now being offered your opinion for the vote. I'm asking you very much for your support. Among the 10 candidates you're looking at are two ATO participants, one of whom is awarded for fighting in Saur-Mogil. There are a number of young people who have been preparing many bills, which are not just bills, but they have become laws. There are a number of public organizations calling on all of you to bring this decision together and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, by Mikola Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u179	Please pass the word to Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u180	The word Krivenk, turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u181	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we fully support the proposed bill. And it's very important when the state celebrates its eminent people. But in parallel, I would like to point out that Paul Kishkar and another large group of national MPs have been presented with a bill on reform in sport, in general on change of approach. So that we don't have what the head coach determines by what oars at the Olympics, and that the state stops running sports at last, so that the entire world of sports is ruled by the federations. I thank the head of Mr. Bubci's National Olympic Committee, and thank you to the head of Mr. Arthur Palace's profile committee. More than 200 amendments were made to the bill. He's working hard right now. And so I thank the officials, the leaders in the field of sports. Thank you to the Ministry, which has finally seen this bill, and to the minister, and the first deputy has already given it their approval, they support it. And they support themselves by reducing their functions because they realize that this is unproductive and that this will not lead Ukraine to victory. Our Olympics have shown how this works. When our self-regulatory organization, Suškević, Mr., is headed, the one who is involved in disabled sports has shown another result where there is no state in the administration. So, honourable colleagues, I invite all those interested in sports to join this bill in its discussion. More than 20 federations have already supported it: both the swimming federation and the football federation and other federations. And so the Ministry will lead this process along with the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u182	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u183	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I address the presiding officer and the room with one request. You know, two years ago there was a coalition in this room. It had a beautiful program of European integration and the name "European Ukraine." We don't have a closed club, and the Supreme Council meeting is an open meeting. Remember, you are being listened to by all those who maintain diplomatic relations with Ukraine. So tell me, please, Europe needs such a parliament and such a partner when there are only coalitions here in the hall, if Europeans believe us, rams, dogs, cattle, goats, on the side of one of the biggest reformers - the barriers, thieves? Do you really think that even after you vote for the "support us" ruling, someone wants us there? I am addressing all of you, so you do not have to have a higher education: Stop demeaning yourself! You are the chosen people, and if you are chosen, your voters are the same. You come and tell me I've been called a ram, so the rams voted for me. You're cattle, so the cattle voted for me. Stop the disgrace! Why aren't you ashamed? What Europe are you talking about today? I propose to go through political ambitions for common interests, or we're not going anywhere. And if you're talking about hybrid wars, hybrid information, you put cards in the hands of those who want to set it all on fire. And now I want to tell you one more thing. If anyone is so wise and does not stop, please show us now, on Wednesday, how many coalition votes you have, as you vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u184	A call was made to me as presiding officer at the meeting. I want to talk to my colleagues in the session room, really, to support a high political culture and to use purely parliamentary language in addressing each other. This is what we support both the Ukrainian Parliament and respect for the Ukrainian Parliament, and actually for everyone. To yourself. There were no speakers from Fatherland. Please ask Igor Lucenko for this faction, and let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u185	Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, indeed, the theme of young people's contribution to the development of parliamentaryism and self-government is extremely important. But in this context, I would like to say such a thing. Unfortunately, today our Parliament lacks understanding of what is actually happening in youth politics and sports. Unfortunately, today there is a huge corruptive loophole in legislation, bylaws that simply allow you to steal the money that is distributed for sport, including young people. And that's what I have to say right now. And the conflict of interest is in the direction of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The prime minister for today is the leader of one of the federations, in fact, he is making his own funds available. Unfortunately, such things are a systemic element of the Ministry of Youth and Sports’s activities. That's why I urge you to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u186	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u187	I call, of course, to support such beautiful gestures by our Supreme Council of Ukraine, but to understand that the real help of young people will be the elimination of these corrupt schemes, the proper human resources policy in the field of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done. I very much ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. We're moving on to making a decision. Questions of support for young people and sports have always generated general support, general approval. I think this time we're going to demonstrate the joint position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. And I am voting on the draft Judgment Order 2016 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government (No. 5237), on the committee's proposal, on the basis and overall, of colleagues, please vote, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[13:39:52]] For 202 Colleagues, this is a political position. I'm going to put it back, and now I'm going to see if it's a political position, or if it's a position that just applies to absence. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Invite the deputies to the hall. Members of the committee, especially young people and sports, please invite deputies to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u189	Dear Colleagues of the Opole, we supported your appeal regarding a high political culture. Please support the vote on an important bill that unites the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I'll be back in a moment. I hope that we will take away the political aspect of the subject of gifted youth and sports. I think it would be wrong if the support of young talented people became a hostage to political debates and arguments in the hall. Colleagues, please, please, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Now I'm going to put it back to vote 5237. I expect that we will return to this vote, especially those deputies who have been engaged in youth and sports for many years. Please, colleagues, I propose: to return to the vote for the draft Judgment Order 2016 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. I ask your support and I ask you to vote in favour of the return to vote 5237. Colleagues, please vote. [[13:42:11]] For 208 I was correctly told that the decision, she doesn't need a return, I can put her to the vote. But, unfortunately, we don't have a vote under this decree. And the honourable colleagues, I think the committee will once again prepare this decision. Colleagues, I'll make an offer to return to the committee for further work. Could she be supported, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Return to the committee for further work. I'm voting on the proposal to return to the committee for further work. Please vote. Please be supportive. It's a committee to work on. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:43:13]] For 206 Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there's no such thing. Any discussion ends with a decision. And the broken rule, it's going to continue, and it's going to continue until the rules are broken, my colleague. I think the committee is going to prepare this decision again. Colleagues, I'm going to give the committee's head a minute and then I'm going to announce the decision. Please, Arthur Leonidovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear young people of Ukraine! We see a very covert example when political quarrels do not allow our young to develop. We see who is voting and not voting for these coins, which have been condemned every year for more than 13 years by our heroes, the young ones we should support. Political strife does not allow our young people in the country to develop. Look and do, honourable voters, look and make your own conclusions, who supports these decisions, who supports our young people, who support our children, and who turns them into political strife! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will make a third suggestion: To return the subject of the legislative initiative for further work, as provided by the Rules. Dear colleagues, I make the third proposal provided by the Rules to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Everyone please take up their jobs. And, dear colleagues, I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the drafting of the Judgment Order 2016 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self - government. — Number 5237. If you'll excuse me, please vote 5237. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:46:34]] For 203 The third proposal does not go through either. We have spoken to the committee head, they will prepare a new ruling, and this decree 5237 has been rejected, colleagues. I've had a statement from two factions, from the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party faction, demanding a recess. But they're ready to replace the break with a tribune. Yeah? Who will speak from two factions? From the factions will be the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u193	Thank you, Mr. Head. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, dear Ukrainians, I would like to draw your attention to a remarkable date. Today, exactly 22 years ago, on November 16, 1994, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 22 years ago, we gave up nuclear power. In this Law on Ratification, there was such a condition. We will ratify it if we give Ukraine guarantees of integrity, sovereignty and the support of our independence. On December 5, 1994, a memorandum was signed to implement the Ukrainian Non-Proliferation Treaty Ratification Act in Budapest, in exchange for signing the third nuclear potential in the world. I want to remind you that the first country to surrender its nuclear weapons voluntarily was not Ukraine, but the South African Republic. When black Zulus lost power, South Africa was forced to give up nuclear weapons. So today the Ukrainians, like the Zulus, have been stripped of their nuclear weapons and forgotten the Budapest Memorandum, and they have forgotten about the assurances they gave. There used to be a vice president on this high court, our great friend Joe Biden. It was a wonderful performance that we all listened to. Only in this long, almost hourly statement by the representative of the United States, who signed the Budapest Memorandum, did any mention of the memorandum. The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, is equally shy of mentioning at every international meeting on the existence of the Budapest Memorandum, which Ukraine signed, gave up its nuclear weapons. We were assured of integrity, respect, sovereignty, independence, and that memorandum. So I demand that the President of Ukraine initiate a different form of negotiations, not a mine, not a norm, but only in the form of a Budapest memorandum. At each meeting, during each international conversation, the President, the Foreign Minister, must show and demand the execution of the Budapest Memorandum. Those who signed it, except Russia, because the promises given by Russia do not cost the paper on which they are written, and everyone else must fulfill them. Otherwise the price of their word is zero. And we need to restore Ukraine's nuclear potential. If not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u194	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u195	If those who signed the Budapest Memorandum: The United States, Britain, then joined China and France -- if they're unable to fulfil the guarantees they gave us -- there's no other way to go in Ukraine than to restore nuclear potential, nuclear weapons and protect themselves. No one but us can protect our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, we will no longer be able to consider any draft legislation, and the time of our morning session is coming to an end. We've adopted a very important package of ratification laws today. In fact, all the ratifications that were put into the agenda were accepted. The most important of these is a call to the European Parliament. I want to thank all the people's deputies and the committee for their work today. We have shown that Parliament can work effectively and effectively on Wednesday as well. And I would also like to report that today, at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on "The state and problems of financing education and science in Ukraine." All those interested in discussing this matter are kindly invited to participate in these parliamentary hearings. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I wish you a fruitful committee job. We have already adopted the agenda for the session, and we have unlocked a large number of laws for committee work, and I want fruitful work. And tomorrow, at 10 a.m., we'll continue our plenary work. So tomorrow, 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-16-m0.u197	I'm going to make a brief announcement. I'm going to make an announcement on my inter-parliamentary. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland, please come here, to the bed, so that we can discuss the order of the sitting that will take place in December. Members of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland.
