ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. I'd like to invite you to the Chamber of Deputies. Colleagues, I'll wait a few minutes. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, once again I ask the deputies to come into the hall so that we can get to work. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Colleagues, please hold the registration. Please register. [[16:11:06]] 339 registered, respected colleagues. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we have registered a number of orders to abolish the decisions of the Supreme Council, including bills that envision the repeal of our budget decisions. According to the Rules, these regulations are submitted to the Regulatory Committee, when the Regulatory Committee takes decisions, they must be immediately considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they must be immediately treated and cannot be signed without them the bills that we have adopted in the budget. And so, colleagues, we are now forced to consider these bills. They don't need to be included in the agenda of the day session, they don't need a special voting procedure, it's foreseen, and we're moving on to their consideration. Otherwise we won't be able to sign the budget, otherwise we won't be able to accept the budget. And once again, they don't need to be included in the agenda of the session. And we're going to go to the first of those decisions. The first decision to reject 5132 is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.12.2016 on the adoption as a whole as a bill (No. 5132). We begin his consideration, and I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u2	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee considered the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 20 December on the adoption as a whole of the Bill 5132, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lewchenk Yuri, and his written statement from 21 December 2016 to the Head of the Supreme Council on the elimination of violations of the requirements of the Rules adopted during the adoption of the decision of the Supreme Council on the bill amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine (to ensure the balance of budgetary revenues in 2017). The Committee noted that the author suggested that the Supreme Council’s decision of 20 December on the adoption of the entire draft Law (registration 5132) should be repealed, since the decision had been taken in violation of the rules of the Rules and a return to the amendments, the decision had already been taken and the results of the amendments had been amended accordingly. The committee noted that the review of the draft Law (registration 5132) began with a report by the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy on the bill and the consideration of amendments, their discussion and the corresponding vote. At the same time, I preside over what was stated in the plenary session that the national deputy of the Ukraine, Zhuriy, had reported some irregularities. A vote was also taken on the return to certain amendments, insisting on the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. So, before voting in favour of Bill 5132 in the second reading, the entire head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy heard all the unregulated amendments that had been discussed, which had been voted on in plenary during the discussion of the project. The Committee proposes that the Supreme Council decide by voting on the adoption or rejection of a draft decision by the People's Deputy Levchenk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please, Berezuk Oleg. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u4	Please pass the word "self-help" to Andrey Giurgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u5	Comrades, good afternoon. During the consideration of the bill, the procedure was violated because we were going under the Rules, we were looking at all the regulations, we were putting them on the stand, we were supporting them, we weren't supporting them. We still had to simply vote on the bill. Regrettably, according to the reporter's insistence, I understand that the Head of the Supreme Council has reinstated virtually all the remedies that have been lifted, i.e. the unsupported hall, put the vote back on the table, effectively nullifying the work of Parliament, the work of Parliament for a half-hour and violating the Rules. That's why we're asking. We support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next reporter refuses. Actually, it's me. There are no more willing speakers. Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u7	Sobolje, Fatherland. I was the author of the draft decision, based on the fact that I carefully analyzed the transcript of our meeting. And this transcript clearly shows, if there are differences in the first two bills, then the bill was followed by a vote after the chairman, or Head of the Supreme Council, clearly warned that we were voting in the government's version on the basis. It was only then that the ruling, after several ballots, obtained the necessary number of votes. So, for example, the Fatherland faction, other factions began to vote in favour of this option only when it was clearly warned that it was in the government's version on the basis. That is why the text that was given, even if the decision of the Supreme Council was followed, the time frame for amending the document began only when the Supreme Council approved the decision. That is why I believe that this is a violation of the Rules, that the text that has been put to the vote is a text that does not correspond to what was voted on in the first reading. And that is why I would insist that my decision be supported and voted. Furthermore, the Rules may provide for a procedure where a different option is voted on, but it is already amended either by a reduced procedure or by a normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u8	Thank you. I mean, Mr. Sergei, we're looking at 5132 right now. It's not your decision yet, yours will be next. Now we're looking at 5132. From. However, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u9	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, I also want to share my impressions of working on this bill, which was also not clear. I don't think it's very clear that it's accepted, accepted as a basis for the committee's proposals. Then, according to the Rules, me and my colleague, Hanna Hopko, we made our proposals and amendments to the bill. But when we came to the committee, it turns out that our amendments had already been rejected, because it turns out that there was a working group working a few days before that, and sort of. and when. It's just that I want the Ukrainian people and the TV viewers to understand that when the committee head comes out and tells us that everything has been done transparently, everything has been done in transparent working groups, all positions agreed upon, instead it's totally not true, because then there's a committee, a huge number of people, you don't have the ability to express or justify your position, and it's not a transparent democratic way. And the questions that relate to tens of billions of dollars are the change to the Tax Code, these are excises, these business-related issues -- they're all being sublimely solved in some way with some group of different lobbyists and transnational corporations, especially with regard to tobacco and alcohol. And then it's very hard to stand down, and the committee is actually going to turn into some sort of lobbyist interpersonal who. From which the state is not actually going to be able to make a huge amount of money into the State budget and there are huge, particularly, corruption risks. This is what I want to share with you the impressions of working under this bill, the changes to the Tax Code actually under the tree, because a few days before the New Year, to the tax period of the new, so that's the situation. I don't think we can stand to vote in favour of this decision, but I would call on the national deputies to vote and vote more in favour of this decision to show our mistrust in the activities and transparency of the tax committee's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u10	Thank you. And the last statement by the author of Decree 5132, Yuri Lewchenk. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u11	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I registered this decree because, unfortunately, the next time in this room was a gross violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Not only is it broken, but it is violated with regard to the budgeting law on changes to the Tax Code, or it is violated with respect to one of the most important documents in the country. Unfortunately, there are terrible things in this bill, even though some positive innovations are small. For example, an adjustment was made to reduce oil rents, making Ukraine’s government budget a billion million dollars less income. With one of these amendments, we failed this amendment, but then Groissman came, waved his hand, and in Chechchev's better traditions, this criminal Supreme Council illegally returned this amendment. And it's totally illegal, because canceling the amendment is a one-time act and after the amendment has been cancelled, you can't go back to that question and you can't go back. But no, Groissman came, and this obedient Supreme Council, which has fully fulfilled all the requirements of the government, has fully upheld these oligarchy requirements. In addition, there is an increase in taxation for small businesses, for the second group of individuals with a single tax, for whom the minimum wage remains attached, and for them there is a double increase in taxation from 1 January of the following year. Please add 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u12	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u13	And from January 1st the following year, taxes will double for them. You see, it's like talking about supporting a small, medium-sized business. So in one law, they've returned a lot of oligarhat benefits, a lot of tax cuts, but they're increasing taxes for small and medium-sized businesses, and it's all in an illegal way. So, of course, I urge all conscious national MPs to show their stand and vote down for that illegal, illegal anti-national law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. So I want to remind you, this is a draft decision calling it off. And to vote, those who support the annulment of our decision are the ones who support it. Colleagues get the point, right? So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.12 on the adoption as a whole as a law of Bill 5132. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[16:24:17]] For-57 The decision is not made. Decree 5132 has been rejected. Next order 5180. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.12 on the adoption as a whole as a law of Bill 5180. The report is first invited by the author, then by the committee. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, is invited to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u15	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Too bad that the Supreme Council has literally just confirmed criminal decisions, has confirmed the billions of additional profits of the oligarhat, while talking about the fact that there is no money for social benefits, there is no money to raise pensions, and there is no money for anything. But when The Cologne billion 700 million why not give. It's okay, isn't it? Well, that's how we have the Supreme Council. We're going to have these decisions, and I'm going to specifically mention who votes in factions. With regard to this ruling, regarding the vote on the Higher Council of Justice, on the Supreme Council of Justice. The bill has many benefits, of course. But in addition, unfortunately, I think it contains completely butaphoric norms on what appears to be public control for the appointment of judges. These standards are ineffective, these standards are butaphoric, these norms are declarative. And that's why I've tabled a lot of amendments to this bill in order to try to put in place real public control over the appointment of judges. Because as long as we don't have a choice of judges, we do. The ship's system will not be cleaned. Well, at least, I was thinking that at least the public would run into this process. But not only did my amendments not support them, they were not put under consideration at all. I mean, when they talk about cleaning up the judicial system, they're adopting this law at night in violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. So you're cleaning up the court system if you're voting for a law that's supposed to be cleaned illegally? Well, it's, to put it mildly, ridiculous and self-denial. So, of course, I approached the Head of the Supreme Council, demanded that amendments be made to the vote, and that they did not. The Supreme Council Rules were violated with a direct text, and the Constitution was completely spitted on. And that's why I registered this decision. And by the way, it turns out. Please, 30 seconds. By the way, as it turns out, it turns out, after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u16	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u17	Once this law has been passed, new details have already been revealed, they appear in such a good, paws and laws that certain individuals are excluded by electronic declaration. See what interesting things are going on in such a law. That is why it is not possible to make such decisions at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u18	Ppinzenik Pavlovicz, a representative of the committee, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u19	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Committee considered a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 21.12. on the adoption as a whole of the law of Law 5180, introduced by the People's Deputy Levchenk Yuri and his written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council on the removal of violations of the requirements of the Rules adopted during the adoption of the decision on the Bill on the Supreme Council of Justice (resistance 5180) of 23.09.2016. The Committee noted that the author suggested that the Supreme Council’s decision of 21 December 2016 on the adoption of the entire draft Law (registration 5180) should be repealed, since the author felt that the decision had been taken in violation of the rules of the Rules. That is, failure to follow the procedure of second reading, which is to discuss the bill in an article and amendments to it. The Committee notes that according to a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Law of Ukraine (registration 5180) was being considered on a one-off basis from the procedures provided for in the Rules. A total of 257 Ukrainian national deputies voted in favour of the ad hoc procedure. The committee reached a conclusion, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it should be decided by vote on the adoption or rejection of the Bill of Decree 5180p by Yuri Lewchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record, two for, two against. Sidorovich Ruslan. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u21	Dear colleagues! When we talk about the history of voting on the Supreme Council of Justice Act, we have a bilateral situation. On the one hand, this law was essential. And rejection of this law could have caused paralysis in the course of further judicial reform. But now I'd like to think of something else. Because, for example, we don't have enough national deputies today, such important laws are passed at night. That shouldn't be true. And respect for the Supreme Council Rules as a whole is the tool that we should use to restore society's trust in Parliament, because until we respect the laws that we are enacting for ourselves, until then we will not be able to obtain those laws that have further social confidence. That's what we need to think about. Without the return of public confidence in the work of Parliament, there will be no social trust in the laws we adopt. Those steps that must now be taken to reform parliament, to reform regulatory procedures, should be followed in the future, because laws should not be adopted coolly, laws should go through the whole cycle of public discussions, there should be a committee discussion, there should be a discussion in the session room, and only then will we get really good laws on the way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u22	Thank you. Please, Lucenko Igor Viktorovich from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, the next time officials of the executive branch openly ignore your demands, the next time you are unable to help your constituents, remember what you did at night when these series of legislative acts were adopted with colossal violations. It's a chain of one, that is, when there's no law here, then outside Parliament you'll be treated the same way as some, donate, clowns who on a New Year's Eve, a New Year's Eve, a budget night take a bunch of legislative acts with regulatory violations without taking into account all the points of view that are in society without real discussion. We destroy our own authority. So don't be surprised if during another period of all the other year we're being treated, well, at best, by some famous tele-personage, but, otherwise, like members of that organization, which, unfortunately, is more like a circus than a parliament. Today, we certainly have a formal chance to correct this error, to vote on the decision of our colleagues to repeal those legislative acts that have been adopted with gross violations of the Rules, with gross violations of the Rules. So now, I ask everyone, press the green buttons, or then climb on yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u24	Prince Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the deputy has just spoken, just said for the red word that everything is broken, betrayal. Friends, I don't want to comment on the National MP's initiative, it's his constitutional right. But I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by adopting the Supreme Council of Justice Act, has adopted a separate decision prior to voting for this law in general and in second reading, on a one-time deviation from the Rules procedure, which is clearly provided for by the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". Therefore, there could be no breach of regulatory procedures. The other thing is that there was no need to consider this bill as a whole, because there was a consensus decision by both the committee members and the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, and the Supreme Council of Justice, the public, the Council of Virtue to vote on this bill in committee drafting and not to violate the arrangements that we were able to agree on as a result of the two - week discussions at the committee meeting. Believe me, colleagues, there are no warnings that would really be an obstacle to this law being signed and given authority. And the last. The reporter even mixed "peanut peas" and said that we had deleted this number of declarations from the Declarations Act. On the contrary, we had all the judicial authority and all the neighbouring institutions offered to extend corruption prevention to them, because somehow, in some strange way, the Anti-Corruption Act had eliminated all those who had a bearing on the judiciary. That's not fair. That's what we fixed. On the other hand, NAZK said that if you suggest adding such large numbers of subjects that are unique, please consider cleaning up the country’s librarians, clubs, kindergartens, and social services. Friends, at least read to criticize first! Do you want these people to be put in prison, not judges, or institutions associated with them? So tell the truth to the people, not lie to the whole state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u26	Thank you for the big performance, Mr. Ruslan. From the factions there are, I see, Dudenkov, then Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, here are the authors of the decision to annul the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the 5180 vote, claiming that the people would think of us as clowns, I think they'd already see us as clowns. After voting on the State Budget Act, after voting a number of budget bills, since these bills were aimed at improving the lives of officials and freezing the social benefits of ordinary citizens. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned. The opposition bloc did not vote in favour of Bill 5180 not only because the ad hoc procedure did not provide for the possibility of not voting on the proposal of the national MPs. By the way, I was directly proposing the bill. And because it's a quasi-vascular reform, because as a result of judicial reform, you rightly said the previous report on the cleansing of the judiciary. Sadly, however, qualified experts and now the judicial branch of power are withdrawing from the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u28	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u29	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, colleagues, the ruling that we're currently considering is, in my opinion, the last obstacle in the way of continuing our effective judicial reform. And now I can agree with the chairman of our legal and justice committee, and really confirm that there were no violations of the Rules during the voting for the bill. And what I'm saying is that we've been working on this bill for weeks, and the last few days we've been working almost continuously. And I know that I've been involved in all of these working groups, in all of these meetings. And all those who submitted more than a thousand rights, all the authors who were really interested in this bill's consideration of quality, and not just to engage in destructive populism, were involved in the consideration of appropriate rights. And that's why we made the decision: to vote ad hoc without considering these rights in the second reading, because the committee did a huge job that was effective and aimed at making this bill not dead, but one that would be an effective mechanism to actually launch further judicial reform. Thank you and the regulatory committee for having considered the draft regulation effectively and quickly and that we have the opportunity to consider it in the hall today. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you now to remove the last obstacle, not to vote in favour of this ruling and to give the President of Ukraine a chance to sign this bill tomorrow and to give citizens the opportunity to get quality justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm that a huge number of meetings have been held with experts, professional environments, and a great deal of work has been done to prepare this law. And I think this is a very important step by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in reforming the judicial system on the path of reform, on the path of change. That's why I'm voting. You understand the logic that whoever upholds the law does not vote in favour of this decree. Got it, right? Anyone who does not uphold the law votes in favour of this decree. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree a couple of annulments of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.12.2016 on the adoption as a whole as a law of Bill 5180. The committee asks for a vote, there is no committee decision. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Vote, fellow supporters, please vote. [[16:39:33]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Order 5180 is dismissed. Welcome to the committee that the law can take effect. I'll sign it immediately. Next. The next draft is a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.12.2016 on the adoption as a whole of the bill 5368. Thus, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, is invited to the report. Please, Mr. Yuri. Friends, there's only seven of them, determination, seven of them, so you can understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u31	First of all, I would like to respond to the statements made by the great lawyers that have just been made: the heads of the Legal Policy Committee, the legal policy! There's another lawyer in the back there who said there was an ad hoc procedure and we did it right. Dear lawyers, read the regulations in Ukraine, the law! It is written that the ad hoc procedure can only be used to shorten the preparation periods, firstly, and secondly, that for any bill that is more than a hundred articles, the ad hoc procedure cannot be used. Not to mention that each MP has the right to insist on his amendments. You're lying on the air! So how can you believe all of your other words when you're talking about good laws, when you're telling a direct text about the Ukrainian Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and about that law of yours?Oh, my God! Where, by the way, you can be all these five-year-old judges who were sitting on the Supreme Council today, they were never appointed, now the High Council of Justice will quietly appoint them, because there are no problems. Well, it's on your conscience that people will appreciate your work. As for Law 5368, which was first falsified. They had no right to put the editorial that was put to the vote, with the committee's rights, because the first reading voted on the government's choice. I mean, first of all, direct falsification, direct! This is a criminal case, and I'm going right now to the NABU to open the case on this issue. Secondly, according to the criminal amendments that we were able to knock down, along with our self-help colleagues, we were able to knock down these changes, and then Groissman comes back, waves his pen -- and it's okay, these oligarchy changes come back. And it was so absurd that at first they beat one correction by themselves, because he said, and then he thought, "No, no, no, let's go back." And they're back again. There is no Parliament at all, there is only a majority that prints decisions from the government. After all, this law makes it easier to get capital out through a system of transfer pricing. This law, under the appearance of tax vacations, allows, in fact, to create a tax hole in Ukraine for years. This law raises the level.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u32	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u33	This law is allowed by raising awareness of what a big business is, allowing again not to pay proper taxes. It's an absolutely oligarchic law that doesn't make the budget billions. And that's what most people vote for. In violation of the Rules, he votes. I call on all conscious deputies: declare your position, show the people who is who in this room. Vote in favour of repealing this law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, the co-report is invited. No, I'm sorry. There's still a p-1. Sobolev is on the way. Sergey Sobolev. Is it? He was in the hall. Are you instead of Sergei Soboljeva? Likewise, Decree 5368-1. Yvchenko, please give me a microphone. 5368p-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u35	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, really, an unprecedented step, you know, we are limiting ourselves to legislative initiatives. 5368, which we accepted in the first reading, talked about it. I think it's going to be in the government's office. Of course, the government’s editing implies that after the first and second readings the deputies will submit their rights, and they will be considered in accordance with the Rules and Norms. What happened? What's happened is that most people in the room have raised the question that let's vote in a committee that's very different from that one, and it allows us to say that the Rules don't allow us to vote like that. After half an hour, we started talking about what we should consider to be the basis for the second reading. Colleagues, a registered order, and we're talking about a violation of the Rules. Please be supportive. Don't break it, please. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I'm addressing you personally. Please don't violate the Rules. You were on Maidan, you wanted to change the system. You have seen regionals ignore the Rules and adopt laws in their time. I'm not going to remind you of the checkers and how all the other laws that mattered to the country were adopted. We want one thing: cleanliness of reception. You have every opportunity to make this law pure and to vote by majority. Let's do that, then to you personally and, believe me, from this Supreme Council of Problems, we're not going to be a claim. We insist on cleanliness, and you have every opportunity to ensure this cleanliness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u36	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I was approached, I will answer. Every moment that happens in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I consult with the Legal Office. I want to tell you that the form that was taken when we went along with the amendments and then came back is completely in line with the letter and the spirit of the law. When there are 400 amendments, and the committee head concludes that a balanced law does not come out, she proposes to return to the amendments that would make the law whole. This is completely appropriate, I stress once again, both the spirit and the letter of the law, and the Supreme Council decides which ones to return to, to which they will not return. And I asked another question: When was the last time in the Supreme Council that all the budget laws in the first reading were reviewed, all the amendments were made in full procedure. I was told in law school that there has never been such a review in the last 15 years. We went through this budget night, following the procedure fully. And even when there was an issue at 68, I didn't sign it, it was the decision of the hall to look at the option, I made the whole room. We went completely through it. And don't mention to me the time when, yes, I fought the regionals here when they put other people's cards in our nests, when they gave up Ukraine, I struggled with it, fought desperately. And when there were the Harkow Agreements, and when there was the Language Law, don't remind me about it, because it has nothing to do with how we're working in the Hall right now. By full procedure, according to the law. And so I would like to ask you, by addressing me, to take into account that we have undergone a full-blown, high-quality procedure on all the budget bills. Dear colleagues, I invite Paul Pinzenick, head of the committee to the report. Paul Pinzenick, chairman of the committee. 5368, 5368-P1.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u37	Honorary colleagues, with regard to the Law on Amendments to the Tax Code on Improving the Investment Climate in Ukraine, registered 5368, issued 2 draft decrees repealing the decision of the relevant Supreme Council of Ukraine. One was introduced by National Deputy Soboljev, registration number 5368P1, and the other by National Deputy Levchenk, registration number 5368P. In his statement and in his explanatory note to the draft ruling, National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Constantinowski, pointed out that while voting for amendments to Bill 5368, he was absent from the Supreme Council's session hall, while in accordance with the Council's data, he voted in favour of the bill. In this regard, the Committee noted that the provisions of article 48 of the Rules do not apply to the fact that there is no individual vote by the national deputies but should be considered in the order provided for in article 47, part three, of the Rules. After considering the material, the transcript of the plenary session, the committee noted that the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code, registered 5368, was adopted in a second reading, in general, by 240 people's deputies. But he noted that during his consideration of the bill, the national MP, Lewchenko, had actually addressed the chairman of the plenary with an application for a violation of the Rules when considering the bill. With regard to the statement made by the national deputy Soboljev, he noted that a violation of the Ukrainian Rules by the chairman (not put in place) had put to the vote a proposal by the head of the Committee on Tax, Customs, to review the draft law on a table prepared for the second reading by the committee of profile. I mean, it's not the kind of editorial that's been taken for granted. The Committee notes that, during its consideration of the bill, the National MP Soboljev repeatedly applied to the chairman of the plenary meeting for violations of the Supreme Council Rules when considering the bill, which he had specifically reported in the explanatory note, and was informed during the presentation, during the report of the draft regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u38	How long have you been here? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u39	In relation to the Committee presented Recommends that the Supreme Council decide whether to vote or to support or reject the draft rulings under the authority of the People's Deputies Soboljev Sergei and Levchenk Yuri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Pinzenik Victor, please. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u41	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s Law on the Rules clearly defines the procedure for reviewing and adopting laws. The law is adopted either as a basis or in the first reading, and amendments are added to it, which are then subject to parliamentary voting, and the law is eventually adopted. We had a billing drum in our parliament, since Law 5368 established rules that were not the subject of the vote. I'm going to think about what the norm is, one, the norm. For example, Law 5368 set out the rule for the release of individual subjects from paying added - value taxes through so - called duty - free shops. Dear colleagues, this rule was not adopted in the first reading. The first reading was based on a draft law from the government, and there were no duty-free shops. You will not find any amendments, name the amendment as amended and considered. There was no such amendment in the column given to the national deputies. Is that why you're asking? How did the law, which was not voted in the first reading, which was not amended as an amendment to the second reading, how did it end up in the law? It is absolutely right to introduce a draft decree, one and the other, in recognition of the invalidity of voting, which has resulted in rules that have not been considered in Parliament. I ask my colleagues to support the vote by one decision and the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u42	Thank you. Podlissek Leo Theophilic is passing on to Zhurizia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u43	Comrades, good afternoon! Bill 5368 was designed as a global institutional reform of the DFS. The bill was destroyed by the fiscal authorities, by the forces of this chamber, who do not need reform of the fiscal service, and should continue to depreciate taxpayers' costs. In this room there is registered Regulation 5542 concerning the resignation of the highest management of the fiscal service. A strange coincidence immediately after our statement regarding the collection of signatures under this decree came to light in the media. At first, Attorney General Yuri Lucenko intervened for Roman Nassirov, noting that he had some kind of reference to my electronic declaration and therefore a criminal case under article 212 "Indemnity of Taxes". In addition, members of the People's Front came in for Sergey Bilan, and this week stated that there was another criminal case. I'm not going to ask the People's Front MPs where they have the original documents removed during the search. I want to ask you, where are the 220 million dollars that Mr. Billan removed during the liquidation of the conversion centers and that didn't come into the state budget? Maybe they're the same place where the original documents are? It is very strange to learn about criminal matters from the media. But there's a plus. Plus, society knows clearly who and whom it covers in the fiscal service, which political power. It's symbolic that I've been fighting illegal crime for over a year and a half. This Parliament is blocking Bill 3448 on illegal pressure on business. I believe that public institutions such as the Attorney General's Office and the tax police are incompetent and unable to do anything but drive money out of business and prosecute political opponents. I don't think there's any point in this room talking about me being innocent. Because we're all the same to society. Let's make these criminal cases public, transparent. And let society see what our law enforcement agencies are doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u44	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u45	What activity they are carrying out. Because sooner or later these criminal cases will have to be closed for lack of crime. If there is more to these claims than politics, the Attorney-General must immediately bring a motion to this hall to remove me from my parliamentary integrity. For my part today, I have made a statement to the Head of the Supreme Council asking for my consent to be held criminally accountable. Yes, it can only be implemented after the adoption of our Bill 5487 on simplifying the procedure for bringing MPs to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u46	Ten seconds, finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u47	I have nothing to fear. The only thing I want without any immunity is to fight against the abolition of the Attorney General's Office and the Tax Police as an ordinary citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u48	Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u49	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Here are the previous speakers as by other draft decisions that did not take place in the plenary room. There were a lot of talk about gross violations of the Rules as well as the Presidium had also talked about gross violations of the Rules during previous calls, and I, for my part, compared to the seventh and eighth convocations, can say that there were no such global and systemic violations of the Rules in the Plenary Hall. There have never been such cases where there was no day of opposition, there have been no cases where the opposition bills in the vast majority are not being considered in the plenary. There have been no such cases that violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations are confirmed by the governing body of the committees and commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without representation of the largest opposition factions. Therefore, it is not necessary to say that the previous convocations had more severe regulatory violations, for that is not the case. We also all know that there was a Pat Cox mission, we know that there are a number of recommendations from the European Parliament that need to be implemented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to improve Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And I have a question, are we following the rules in place to improve something? No, we're not. Why are we not introducing the principle of proportional consideration of bills? Because the faction of the Opposition Block has actually registered a lot of drafts. But very few bills are being considered. And if considered, only as alternatives to those who represent the coalition. I believe that compliance with the Rules is unacceptable. As for the substance of Bill 5368, once again, the faction of "The Opposition Block" supported the bill, because there's a very large number, in those remarks that I agree with Andrey Georges, which, in fact, is about the transmission of databases. But there are so many positions that actually improve and limit the will of the controlling organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u50	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u51	The Opposition Block stands for the creation of electronic offices and the reduction of savvy in the conduct of checks, and the immaculateness of tax credit for VAT. The Fatherland faction has branded this bill, but based on the proposals it has made, they are incompetent and incompetent. That is why the bill itself is positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. It's just that I've been asked again, and I'll answer again when they tell me there were no violations. This is here, in that room the militias of the Party of Regions mutilated the deputies just for the truth to say their word. This is here, in that room, the fighters you brought into the hall, the members of the Party of the Regions, in this Presidium and in the hall, stuck in foreign windows cards of "carcases," which they didn't even have in the hall, and they did a demonstration vote. You don't teach us how to break the Rules! You don't have to teach the democratic coalition how to work today. Here, in that room, everyone has a word, everyone and you have a word on every issue. Just this morning, we were looking at a bill with the Royal Co-author. Here, in that room, there never was a time when the ruling coalition of fists would try to solve the issue with someone. And Peter Poshenko's Block and the People's Front demonstrate a high level of parliamentaryism and democracy. Here, in that room, I emphasize once again, every correction was considered, the deputies were sitting for four hours, for four hours sitting here, and the deputies were looking at every correction. And so you leave your political manipulations to those leaders who turned parliament into a battlefield, bringing in the fighters here, and don't teach us today. To break through Parliament's reform, at least I had to vote in favour of Parliament's Reform Act, and I put it to the vote repeatedly. And I want to say that it's those who didn't vote for it who didn't support the Parliament Reform Act. I've put together a working group, we've already agreed on a logic so that we can go through one piece of legislation on reform of parliament. But it is very evil to demand reform of Parliament and not vote in favour of the law that calls for reform of Parliament. So, colleagues, I ask you in my speeches to speak honestly, to speak the truth, and not to engage in political manipulation. Now I'm asking Chumak, one minute and Ednak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u53	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. But I think I can tell you how it happened and how it happened. I want to tell you, dear friends, that good intentions are always paved the way to hell. When we say that means justify any purpose, that's absolutely not true. I want to go to the Ukrainians and just say it. Remember, in the past, when the Rules began to be broken, 180 people jumped up, ran to the rostrum, blocked the rostrum, and were not allowed to break the Rules once. No decree or draft law was allowed to be re-voted, and no buttoning was allowed. Today we have this as a norm, and that's very bad. Why are these laws being passed at night, please tell me. For the sake of the MPs, are the deputies so efficient? No, Ukrainian citizens, respected our citizens, in order simply to cover up at night all those articles in which we'll see very clearly, for whom we're going or for other money, to which we're going. To make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u54	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u55	Cover up the same amendments as they say that the Justice Act contains, the Supreme Council of Justice, a series of amendments that do not apply to justice at all, and the law itself does not apply to the budgetary process at all. Unfortunately, I want to say that the violation of the Rules is permanent. Regrettably, I would like to say that here, in these statements signed by several members of the people in relation to this ruling, all violations of the Rules that were at the time of the adoption of Law 5368-P are listed. Moreover, what we see here is not just a violation of the Rules but a sign of a criminal offence. Probably us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u56	Guys, I'm giving you half a minute, so you can figure out what you can go on. I give everyone the same. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u57	We'll go to the Attorney General's Office tomorrow to check this out, to see if the law is being falsified by undetermined individuals. For now. We believe, hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, one more minute, and we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my concern by adopting Bill 5368 because the country was really looking forward to reforming the administration of the tax and customs services. We waited and we voted, I personally voted in favour of the government version of this bill. We wanted a real database transfer, we wanted to separate corruption or eliminate corruption risks from taking databases from the administration of the DFS and customs so that there would be no abuse of products, so there would be no abuse of VAT compensation, so there would be transparency. And I want to say that the world was waiting, the foreign states that were supporting us were also waiting for these anti-corruption reforms. Instead, in a completely opaque way, all these achievements have been reversed, and it can be said that the country has paid for the multibillion-dollar abuse of the plot. Because the same group of deputies who voted in favour of neutralizing this reform voted in favour of the same group of deputies. So it's a high price to vote for the budget, it's actually too much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u60	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u62	Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I remind you, these are draft decisions for annulment, because those who support the law - do not vote who does not support the law - are determined to understand the logic of this vote, these are decisions for annulment. And I put each individual to a vote. First of all, the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.12.2016 on the adoption as a whole of the Bill 5368-P. The committee suggests that we identify ourselves in the hall. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[17:05:13]] Z-62 The decision is not made. Decree 5368-P is considered to have been rejected. I'm now voting on Decree 5368-P1. 5368-P1: draft Decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Decision on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the investment climate in Ukraine) (5368). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[17:06:03]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Accordingly, the 5368-P1 regulation was rejected. Colleagues, I have a request from the Presidency for political factions of the Radical Party and Self-Help, demanding a recess. But they're ready to take a break from the rostrum. Egor Sobolev is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u63	All the people in this room understand very well that no more decisions will be taken by Parliament this year. Tax payers’ money has divided, 800 billion dollars, and they can travel to the islands in a calm manner. I'm afraid a lot of people who aren't in the hall have already done so. From Self-Help we have to all factions of Parliament request. One of the things we owe to society is a decent, real center picker. I think you're all watching Michael Ohendowski's suspected of a corrupt crime, in plain words, in that he "fed" at the hands of the Party of Regions. In doing so, Parliament pretends that this does not apply, although only we, only we have the right to release the members of the Central Elections, including the head of the Central Elections. The President of Ukraine has actually made such a submission in the summer, and nothing, apart from our will or our inaction, prevents us from doing so. From Self-Help to Peter Prashenko Block to the People's Front to all, without exception, the factions of Parliament. During the weekend, find strength, talk to the candidates for the Central Elections. And as soon as we get back, let's make a decision -- we'll expel people who are suspected of corruption and not just in the corruption of the Central Elections, and we'll assign a normal CBC. Let's not do "full ohendowski."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the following orders. Now it's a decision. This is 5130-P1 (author Yuri Levchenko), 5130-P2 (author: Mikhailo Papiev), 5130-P (author: Suhevich Yuri Romanović). Let us now consider these three decrees. And I invite you to take the floor of the first author of the ruling of the Ukrainian national deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodirimrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u65	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Recently Parliament. It was on a non-budget night so called, it was a little earlier, Parliament approved Law 5130 and then blew it up all over the country (by the way, it was on the official Twitter of the Supreme Council, it was in the statements of the leadership of the country), that it seemed that this law raised the minimum wage that it actually did not raise the minimum wage, the minimum wage raised the budget. And what really happened in this law? There was a continuation of the taxation of working pensioners, which is why this Parliament voted, the taxation of pensioners of the poor who do not end up, even though they want to fake something, get some money, they're still taxed. There was the cancellation of scholarships for 99 percent of students, which was in this law, there was an introduction in this law, sorry for such a word, a nightmare of small and medium-sized businesses by new checks, and it's said they're reducing checks for small and medium-sized businesses. No, they're lowering checks, they're making all kinds of improvements to the kleptocracy of oligarchic kleptocracy that rules in this country, but in this law, they've introduced new checks for small and medium-sized businesses. In this law, there was a total monitoring of Ukrainian citizens from the Ministry of Finance, a permit for the Ministry of Finance to obtain essentially bank secrecy information in order to clear up the last copies of ordinary Ukrainians. In this law, the EU has also been introduced for the non-working FOPs, for the non-working small business, when the natural person of the entrepreneur receives no income, because we have such a terrible situation in the economy, now under this law, he will still have to pay 700 dollars a month, this law too. And they finally said that the result of this law would be to raise the minimum wage. In fact, it will hardly happen because it has been prescribed that now the minimum wage will also apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u66	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u67	Because it has been prescribed that now the minimum wage will also apply to both allowances and bonuses, i.e. virtually for most Ukrainians, because of this law there will be no increase. That's what the majority in the Supreme Council voted for, by the way, with the voices of the regionals, and then they talk about the minimum wage. I call on normal deputies to now vote in favour of repealing this disgraceful law that has been passed in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now invite you to the floor of National Deputy Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u69	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, who are now watching the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! You know, it's actually a shame that we have such important issues in mind. And what got nervous today was the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to explain about the "poperedniks," so he says he feels guilty that there is virtually no bill that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would adopt without violating the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, and that's unfortunate. There has never been such a thing, and I think that Ukraine's national deputies will confirm previous calls if such a daily violation of the Ukrainian Law. Look, this is what our country's parliament won if we voted for Law 5130 on December 6. We could have calmly voted against the same law without immediately voting in violation of article 114 and article 102 of the Rules, and on the basis and in general, for there were objections that were confirmed by the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We could have voted on the basis, a totally calm committee would have worked on it for second reading, taken into account all the proposals and amendments made by the Ukrainian people's deputies. And this Tuesday we would have accepted it as a whole, but we would have a clear conscience, and we would have clearly adhered to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. How can the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in what way can the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, require Ukrainian citizens to comply with the laws if he does not comply with them daily? Today, the same example was true. Act 5129. I came personally, and you can see this in a television recording, to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and said that as a subject of the legislative initiative, I have reservations about the adoption of this law as a whole. I want to use my right of legislative initiative and make amendments and suggestions to make the law quality. In spite of this, he was placed in general in violation of the rules of the Supreme Council. So, dear fellows, we need it once and for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u70	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u71	We have to make a deal once and for all: The rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are the law. And each of us, when making an oath to the Ukrainian national deputy, is written in the text of the oaths: I am obliged to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. We need to adopt good laws. We need to go through them carefully both in the first reading and in the second, if necessary, in the third reading. Let's stick to the law and cancel the vote that was illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u72	Thank you. And now a national MP is invited to the floor. There is no National Deputy Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich, who has prepared his draft decree as well. So I now invite the co-rapporteur to the floor, this is the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Paul Pinzenik. Please, Mr. Paul. And you give us the position of the committee regarding all three of these regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! With regard to the annulment of the Supreme Council Decision on Adoption as a Foundation and the entire draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (Registrational 5130), three draft repeals were introduced. One of them, registration number 5130-P, under the authority of the national deputy Shuhevich Yuri-Bogdan. Next, 5130-P1, under the authority of the People's Deputy Levchenka. And finally, 5130-P2, for the authorship of the People's Deputy Papiev. The Committee considered the materials presented, the transcript of the plenary meeting of 6 December 2016 and noted that the law, the draft Law 5130 had been adopted at the suggestion of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment, Pension Insurance, on the basis of and in general. This proposal was supported by 227 votes of the national deputies. The committee noted that during its consideration of the bill, national MPs Shuhevich, Levchenko, Papiev, did not refer to the chairman as to the violation of the law when considering the voting of the bill. Instead, during the discussion of the bill, Husak, the head of the people’s delegation of Ukraine, asked for support for the bill. However, since the faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" in the Supreme Council has significant remarks, the proposal was made not to put it on the ground as a whole. In accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the first part of the Rules, the first reading of the bill may allow Parliament to decide to adopt the bill on the basis of the commission of the Main Committee to prepare it for the second reading. At the same time, if the requirements of article 102 of the Rules are met, a decision may also be made on the adoption of the bill as a whole, provided that the bill contains no more than 100 articles and no comments on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u74	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u75	Accordingly, the committee decided on the draft regulations and asked the Supreme Council to determine whether they were supported or rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u76	Dear colleagues! Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please log in. Please, from the People's Front, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! I'd like to look at all the "hot heads" that come out of the rostrum that are wearing a shirt that says it's all a lie. So I want to assure you that this bill, which we have adopted as the responsible political forces for the future of Ukraine, which voted in favour of the budget, which provides for the financing of our army, provides for the financing of national security and defence, provides for an increase in wages to 3,200, an increase in salaries for teachers by 50 percent, an increase in salaries for health workers by 30 percent, everything is there! I'm sorry you didn't see it because of your political closeness. But most of the people in this room are concerned about the future of our country and about Ukraine entering the main financial document next year. That's why our faction won't support it. Come on, don't block government decisions, let's move on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u78	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u79	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, Mr. Head, there's a saying here, you know, the law is like a breather. When we're all here in the room, we understand that absolutely in violation of any rule of the Rules is voted on in the second reading and in the whole of the documents that were not considered in the first, you're saying that, unfortunately, we're all acting according to democracy, according to the laws. If a village head or a village or a town in any village did it, he'd be in jail right away. So, Mr. Head, I'm addressing you, but remember the values of Maidan, remember all the things that now require the society where that happened. Or where to take that parliamentaryism and finally start reforming Parliament, reforming Parliament, because not only is it important what is written in that law, but it is also an important procedure for its adoption. In this bill, we have seen tax retention on working pensioners, a shameful tax, which they say is probably from the very furthest village in Ukraine to the great cities and capital. We've seen our students take out their scholarships in part. We've also seen this law get stuck under this kind of slogan to raise the minimum wage to be able to run checks in small and medium-sized businesses. So these are all things you have to take on a pulse, start reforming Parliament and allow us not to criticize you here as the Head of the Supreme Council, because you are the generator of these things. So I ask you again, please start the reform, where there will be a clear follow-up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u80	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u81	Which is no less important than legislation itself. Then there will be no desire for our colleagues to register similar decrees that will nullify these laws, which have been adopted in an entirely illegal manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u82	Thank you. I've had another call, I'll answer that. Five times the law, the draft on amendments to the Rules, and the reform of Parliament. Five times it was not even included in the agenda, friends, or even included. There were several, four key reforms foreseen. I had to get a working group together. In the working group, we agreed that we would register each individual reform with a separate bill so that there wouldn't be a process where several reform positions could take votes. I gave the apparatus a task so that each one of them could be designed so that we could walk on each of them in stages. I hope that in January we'll start to get a positive result. One of them scares me the most. The greatest criticism is the absence of reforms that did not even vote in favour of their inclusion in the agenda. That's what scares me the most, you know? When it comes to voting in the hall, some factions do not give a single vote, and then they tell me why Parliament does not carry out reforms. But because votes are not enough, including voices and factions. And I'm asking you to do the same explanatory work inside the factions, and all the factions in the working group are involved. We make a consensus decision so that everyone can express their positions so that this is the general position of all factions. The Regulatory Committee involved to be involved. So I urge you to join us. I call on you, help me, and we are reforming the Ukrainian Parliament together, together. What can be done by means of orders is what I do. But as for the changes to the Rules, all I have to do is decide the hall, and I don't have a magic wand to decide. Only through the hall can it be resolved by a majority vote. I'm counting on your support very much and I'm counting on productive work in that direction. Thank you. Next Litwin Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u83	Dear Head and Honorable Fellows! I'm listening here to talk about this problem, and I'm mentioning a professor who's always said in the discussion of the dissertation, that I didn't read the dissertation, but a few words I'll say about it, I have the impression that the vast majority of people in this sessional room didn't read the law and didn't know it. In addition to the positives that are well spoken of, look at the negatives. And they obviously have to be brought to society. I'm not going to talk about all of these negatives, but I have to tell you that the powers of the Supreme Council are even being cut. I'm going to talk about just one problem, about students who will probably be told their position after the New Year. If they have doubled the number of students who are being trained in state form who will receive the scholarship, at the same time, they have not been able to make proposals, and they are obvious. You have to have an authorized bank or you have to create a special bank that would provide credit to the President with not a large interest, long loans to let him know that he needed to pay for his education, then he knew that he needed to learn responsiblely. And the state would be able to pay off these loans if it showed great success in learning, or create jobs for students, encourage entrepreneurs to give jobs to students. And you just took one stroke and you cut everything, and now you're doing your space work, you're saying it's all good, you're reading these laws. What the same ATOs, Afghans, disabled people will say is what you cut all those social guarantees, all the social obligations of the state, or put them on the local budget, or gave them a repurchase to the government. I understand that the decision will not be made here, but we need to have a serious conversation on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u84	Thank you very much. There hasn't been a Radical Party in two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u85	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. So I'm looking at my colleagues coming out here, and they're saying that you didn't have to raise the minimum wage. Let the parasites dry your tongue when you say so. You assholes live on corruption incomes, you have bags of money, millions of Ukrainians live on 940 dollars of pension, for a thousand 200 wages, and you, parasites, you come out here, you say you don't have to pick up. You don't have a conscience. You've been out of the country for 25 years. Before every election, you hung people's ears, you gave them 200 bucks before the election, you turned people into beggars, so they could vote for you assholes for thieves, corrupts and bribes. And today, when you sit in this Parliament for 20 years, praising the country, you go tell them you don't have to raise wages, you don't have to raise pensions, you go to the people. A man comes up to me, a retired grandmother, and says, "I've got a thousand dollars of retirement, I've had enough for two weeks. What am I supposed to do for the next two weeks of the month?".. And you're telling me not to raise it, because inflation and everything. Inflation is not in one place – the cemetery, and everything else is life. And so in order to build a country, in order to raise it, so that you parasites don't sit on a people's hill, we have to give them money so that they don't depend on you to take your taxes. Poor people will not choose honest authority, so we need rich people. We need economic growth, overcoming unemployment, creating new jobs, developing national production. The faction of the Moscow Zosula does not vote for anything, no, along with the Environment, which will allow the country to be reborn. Get out, parasites out!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-22-m1.u86	My colleagues, the performances are over. All those who wanted to speak. We can go to the vote, colleagues. I'm asking you, once again, these are motions for deviations, for deviations. I mean, whoever supports these laws doesn't vote for them. So I'm asking you to get a good look around here. Three orders are, one is 5130-P, the second is 5130-P1 and the third is 5130-P2. I'll put each and every one to a vote, colleagues. And so I'm starting to put them to the vote. First, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 6 December 2016 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (5130-P). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote who supports it. [[17:29:58]] For-63 The decision is not made. Next: 5130-P1, draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 06.12.2016 on the adoption as a whole of Bill No. 5130. Who supports 5130-P1, please vote. Please. [[17:30:30]] For-56 The decision is not made. Regulation 5130-P1 is rejected, as is 5130-P. They're both rejected. And the last is 5130-P2. We've already voted Shuhevich, now your ruling, Papiev's voting now. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 6 December 2016 on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (5130-P2), Michael Papiev. We now vote yours, Mr. Michael. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[17:31:23]] For-52 The decision is not made. And Decree 5130-P2 is rejected. Dear colleagues, in this way, we have passed all the decisions that have been made to our advantage. This opens the way for us to sign the budget laws and, above all, to sign the budget of Ukraine for 2017, the budget that will allow us today to finance the Ukrainian army at a time when the aggressor starts to intensify his actions today, while the advance boys protect peace and peace in our country and protect our states, we have made a responsible decision, we have made an important decision, and now we are opening the way for the 2017 budget to be signed. And I'm sure and I believe. It will be signed soon, and Ukrainian citizens can be calm – the Ukrainian State will enter in 2017 with a new Ukrainian budget. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. Thank you for your active work. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work in the session room, colleagues. See you tomorrow, 10 o'clock. Happy birthday. Good-bye.
